fILE COPY
Report No. 1887-KE
Kenya Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Appraisal Report
(In Two Volumes)
Volume 11
November 17, 1978
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Rank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
In October 1975, the Kenya Shilling was devalued and pegged to
the SDR at a rate of SDR 1.00 = KShs. 9.66, and the rate vis-a-vis the
US Dollar has fluctuated since that time. For purposes of this appraisal
the following exchange rate has been used:
US$1.00 = Kenya Shilling (KShs.) 8.00
KShs. 1.00 = US$0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare                     10,000 m2  - 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)   2          0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer (km ) =       0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)        =      2.20 pounds
1 litre (1)            =      0.26 US gallons
1 metric ton (t)       2      0.98 long tons = 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC        Agricultural Development Corporation
AFC    =   Agricultural Finance Corporation
CPCS    -  Cooperative Production Credit Scheme
DFCK   -   Development Finance Company of Kenya
KFA        K Kenya Farmers Association
KNTC   =   Kenya National Trading Corporation
KSA    =  Kenya Sugar Authority
MCU        N Muhoroni Cooperative Union
NIB        National Irrigation Board
NSRI   -  National Sugar Research Institute
RDMF   =   Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund
SBCU   -   Sugar Belt Cooperative Union
SSO    -   Sugar Settlement Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANNEX 1
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECr
Existing Structure and Organization of the Sugar Industry
A. Introduction
1.        Government plays an important role in Kenya's sugar industry.
Various ministries and other agencies are involved in production development
schemes, price and cost regulatory functions and marketing; there is, however,
a relatively low level of coordination between these institutions. The sugar
companies have various mixes of Government and private ownership and manage-
ment systems, particularly with respect to outgrower cane production. With an
increasing emphasis on smallholder cane production, the industry is faced with
the difficult task of finding appropriate strategies and organizational
arrangements for increasing cane production and at the same time developing
efficient smallholder farm enterprise.
B. Institutions Concerned With the Industry
The Ministry of Agriculture
2.        The Ministry has overall responsibility for policy formulation
and the development of the industry. Government has major share capital
investments in five of the seven sugar companies (Mumias, Muhoroni, Chemelil,
Nzoia, South Nyanza) and a Ministry representative sits on the Board of
Directors of each of these companies. There are two technical divisions in
the Ministry of Agriculture, Crops and Extension/Training. A Director of
Agriculture in each province supervises the District Agricultural Officers who
direct the extension work. Only minimal extension services are available
directly to cane producers from the Ministry, although some 25 general agri-
culture extension agents have been made available to the Sugar Belt Coopera-
tive Union (SBCU). The Ministry's National Sugar Research Station 1/ at Kibos
was established in 1971 on the western end of the Sugar Belt; most of the
efforts at Kibos have been devoted to variety trials, with some work on
fertilizer rates, soil improvement, herbicides, ratoon-stunting disease, and
rate of application of N. The paucity of qualified research personnel has
been a serious constraint on the quality of work.
1/   The name is being changed and the new name, the National Sugar Research
Institute, is used throughout this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (The Treasury)
3.        This Ministry plays a central role in determining policy for sugar
industry development, particularly with respect to Government expenditures
and foreign exchange matters. It also participates in the determination
of sugar prices, taxes on sugar production and levies on sugar imports.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
4.        This Ministry is responsible for establishing sugar marketing
policy and for control and direction of the sales and distribution functions.
It also imports sugar as required to supplement internal production. The
Ministry directs the Kenya National Trading Company (KNTC) in the wholesale
distribution of sugar (Annex 2).
The Ministry of Lands and Settlement
5.        The Land Department of this Ministry is responsible for land sur-
veys, adjudication and registration of titles and other rights. It is also
responsible for acquisition of land for Government sponsored housing and
industrial development and for acquisition of large farms for settlement
schemes for landless small farmers. The Settlement Department administers
the sub-division and redistribution of the land and is responsible for
development of infrastructure and, in some cases, for agricultural development
(Annex 3).
The Ministry of Cooperative Development
6.        This Ministry is responsible for administering a wide range of
programs and for enforcing the Cooperative Law, registration of societies
and unions, auditing of accounts, training in cooperative management and
bookkeeping, and general supervision and guidance. The Ministry also
operates the Cooperative College of Kenya. Important recent activities
are the Ministry's Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS), financed
by the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (para. 15) and the Cooperative Thrift
Scheme (CTS), a savings program for small farmers. Cooperatives have been
vital in developing small-scale sugarcane production in the Nyanza Sugar
Belt (Annex 3).
The National Irrigation Board (NIB)
7.        The NIB is a quasi-governmental body responsible for development
of large-scale irrigation projects. Although no cane is currently produced
on any of the large-scale irrigation projects, the NIB pilot project on
the Kano plain in the Sugar Belt has about 200 ha of cane in production
and 30 ha have been converted from rice to sugarcane at Ahero.
The Ministry of Water Development
8.        This Ministry is responsible for development of large-scale
domestic water supply and distribution systems for urban areas and for



-3-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
rural domestic consumption. It also develops small-scale irrigation projects.
The hydrology and groundwater studies and general planning for water resources
are done in this Ministry.
The Ministry of Works
9.        This Ministry has responsibilities for planning, construction, and
maintenance of public roads and buildings. This function extends to main
access roads in the cane growing areas.
Banking Institutions
10.       The private banks in Kenya lend about 12% of total commercial
credit to the agriculture sector. The bulk of the financing for agriculture,
however, comes from four Government institutions.
11.       Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC).  Financed by grants
and loans from the Ministry of Agriculture, this Government-owned development
bank has made investments in Chemelil Sugar Company, Ltd., amounting to
KShs. 151 million as of March 31, 1976, of which KShs. 94.4 million is equity
and KShs. 56.6 million is in loans. ADC's investment in East African Sugar
Industries, Ltd. amounts to KShs. 19.5 million of equity capital.
12.       Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).  Also Government-owned,
AFC has no equity investments in the sugar industry but is a source of
financing for some outgrowers. Land is the collateral but loans generally
exceed the value of the land. Owing to the relative ease of administering
loans to large farmers as opposed to small farmers, the AFC's lending
operations tend to be primarily to large farms. However, the AFC has made
a special effort in the Ramisi area, where no other credit is available to
small-scale growers, to finance their operations.
13.       Development Finance Company of Kenya Limited (DFCK).  This develop-
ment finance company is owned partly by Government through the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC). The other shareholders with ICDC
are the Commonwealth Development Corporation, German Development Company,
Ltd., and the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries, Ltd.
DFCK invests in new or expanding manufacturing and agricultural processing
enterprises and has made equity investments in Chemelil Sugar Company.
14.       The Cooperative Bank of Kenya, Ltd. (CBK).  The CBK, starting oper-
ations in 1968, is the banker of the cooperative societies and unions. In
addition to Government funds, CBK receives financing from bilateral and
multilateral assistance and finance organizations. Through the Cooperative
Thrift Scheme (CTS), a member savings program, additional funds are generated
within the cooperative system for lending. With recent additional financing
from USAID and a US$20 million loan from the World Bank, CBK now claims to
have over KShs. 300 million for lending. CBK has outstanding loans of over
KShs. 80 million to nearly 100,000 farmers.



4-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
15.       The Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS) is the principal
lending mechanism of CBK whereby members borrow through their societies
and unions for production inputs. The CPCS lending program of the Sugar
Belt Cooperative Union finances private cane grown by marketing society
members and the private cane grown on subsistence plots by production society
members. The member applies to the society for a production loan to cover
costs of land preparation, inputs and crop maintenance. The society loan
committee and a CPCS field agent review the application, check the plot
for size and suitability and, if approved, the loan is submitted to the
CPCS office in Chemelil. The society supervises and certifies performance.
The loan is recovered for CPCS by the factory at the time of cane delivery.
Loan repayments to date have been good, but the program is of too recent
origin to draw any definite conclusions.
C. Industry Organization at the National Level
The Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA)
16.       The Kenya Sugar Authority is the principal Government body respon-
sible for development and coordination in the industry. KSA was created
in 1972 as a statutory board "to promote the development of the sugar industry
in the most efficient and economical manner possible, and in particular to
promote and foster practices which enhance the efficiency of the production,
processing and marketing of sugarcane, sugar in all its forms and molasses."
KSA has remained an ineffective advisory body until now. However, its powers,
staff and operations are currently being expanded with funds from the South
Nyanza Sugar Project, which provides US$2.6 million for KSA over a period of
five years starting in 1977.
17.       The-overall responsibility for the management of the Authority is
vested jointly in the members of the Authority in accordance with the Agri-
culture Act (Cap 318), Kenya Sugar Authority (Amendment) Order 1977. In
addition to the members of the Authority, headed by a Chairman, the KSA
organization consists of a Chief Executive and expert staff in the areas of
planning, finance, economics, and evaluation; sugarcane production; factory
technology; and manpower development. KSA's objectives and functions are
described in Kenya: Appraisal of the South Nyanza Sugar Project, Report No.
1418-KE of March 4, 1977, Annex 17.
East Africa Storage Company
18.       This company, affiliated with the international molasses marketing
company United Molasses Inc., handles all of the molasses exports from Kenya.
With a storage facility in Mombasa of 21,000 t and an annual capacity of
120,000 t, it is well-equipped to handle the available molasses. The company
expects that a new Government ruling which allows private companies to own
rolling stock on the railroad will eventually relieve the serious transporta-
tion problem which now exists in moving molasses from the factories to the
port of Mombasa.



-5-
ANNEX 1
Page 5
D. Organization at the Company Level
19.       There are seven sugar production companies in Kenya (five operat-
ing and two with factories under construction), plus two firms operating
mini-factories. Detailed features of organization and management of the
Project companies at Miwani, Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi are described in
Annex 3. The main features of the other companies are briefly summarized
below.
20.       The Mumias Sugar Company, Ltd., formed in 1971, is managed under
contract by Bookers Agricultural and Technical Service, Ltd. The majority
equity in Mumias is held by Government. The cane supply of 548,000 t in 1976
was provided by the nucleus estate (31%) and small outgrowers (69%). Mumias
is in an expansion stage which will take the annual capacity of the factory
from 70,000 t sugar to 156,000 t and eventually to 180,000 t. Mumias has
formed an outgrowers company to handle financing of outgrower production and
eventually, if its performance is encouraging, to organize and manage the
agriculture operations, harvesting and transport which are all now done by the
factory. Farmers are represented on the board of directors of the outgrowers
company.
21.       The South Nyanza Sugar Company, Ltd., formed in 1976, is expected
to commission its new factory in 1979/80 and is being established with major-
ity equity from Government (95%). Loan capital is being provided by the World
Bank and other institutions. The Mehta Group, which also manages Muhoroni,
are the managing agents. The development includes a 2,650 ha nucleus estate
and 9,000 ha of land for small-scale outgrower production and will increase
sugar production by 60,000 t per year.
22.       The Nzoia Sugar Company, Ltd. is a Government-owned, French financed
sugar company now constructing a factory and developing cane in Western Prov-
ince. Nzoia will have a capacity of 52,000 t of sugar per year and plans to
develop about 12,000 ha of cane. Commissioning of the factory is expected in
late 1978.
23.       There are two privately-owned mini-factories in Kenya, one open-pan
system at Kabras in Western Province produces about 1,800 t of sugar per year,
and a new factory with a vacuum system is currently under construction also in
Western Province. Possibilities for further large-scale development exist at
Busia, the Yala Swamp and other areas but Government has earlier agreed to
discuss with the Bank any further significant expansion of the sugar industry.
May 30, 1978



-6-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Project Area
1.        The Project would be carried at two localities (Maps IBRD 12990 and
IBRD 12997), separated by some 650 km in a straight line from Muhoroni to
Ramisi, or more than 800 km road distance between those places. In the west
of Kenya the Nyanza Sugar Belt lies between Kisumu on Lake Victoria and the
Tinderet-Lumbwa mountainous tract. In the far south of the country, Ramisi
Sugar Zone occupies the coastal plain beneath the Shimba Hills.
Nyanza Sugar Belt
2.        Location.  Each of the sugar mills at Miwani, Chemelil and
Muhoroni is served by a surrounding estate and by outgrowers of sugarcane
whose farms extend up to 25-28 km by road from the factory. The three
adjacent blocks of land, referred to2as zones in Kenya, which supply the
mills cover altogether some 1,000 km of the Kano plain and its fringes to
the north, as far as the cliffs of the Nandi Escarpment, and to the east
where the Tinderet Hills and the uplands beyond Fort Ternan mark the limits
of the Sugar Belt. The zones straddle the equator, having a maximum width
of more than 30 km between latitudes 00 05'N and 0014'S and a maximum length
of about 70 km between 34046'E, the longtitude of Kisumu, and 35 022'E. Dis-
tances by road from Kisumu are Miwani 28 km, Chemelil 47 km, Muhoroni 56 km,
and thence, via Kericho, Nairobi 354 km. The Sugar Belt falls almost entirely
in the Kisumu District of Nyanza Province, except along its south and east
margins (Kericho District) and its northern rim (Nandi District). Kericho
and Nandi Districts are in Rift Valley Province.
3.        History.  The irregular shapes of these zone result from the un-
even spread of sugarcane growing around the mills. Before 1922, when Miwani
factory was built, the area had been mainly part of the domain of the Luo
people, with some territory belonging to the Nandi in the north and to the
Kipsigis in the south. The eastern end of the present Nyanza Sugar Belt is
its latest accretion but not the only growth point, for within 10-15 km road
distance from Miwani there is still land awaiting development or newly
developed - notably Ahero Irrigation Scheme.
4.        Demography.  According to the 1969 population census Kisumu
District then had 401,000 inhabitants. The town of Kisumu accounted for
31,000 and the remaining rural area, the Nyanza Sugar Belt and2environs
(2,080 km ), therefore, had a population density of 178 per km . The
predicted 1979 population of the District, minus Kisumu town, is 535,000
at 3.75% annual growth rate, giving a forecast 1979 density of some 260 per



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2
km .  There is uneven distribution of people in the various census sub-
locations of the Sugar Belt. Some sublocations had almost twice the mean
density in 1969, led by the smallholder cane-growLng areas south and south-
west of Miwani mill (280-350 per km ). In contrait Fort Ternan sublocation
was then relatively sparsely inhabited (50 per km ) as were the nucleus
estate areas around Miwani and Chemelil mills. Currently, there are some
14,000 farmers in the Nyanza Sugar Belt, most of whom grow cane, and some
3,000 permanent staff of the sugar companies and of other major employers
within the sugar zones. The total population of all three zones is not easy
to estimate, but at six dependents per farmer or employee,2the 1977 total of
some 100,000 would entail an overall density of 100 per km . Rural Kisumu
District outside the Suga5 Belt would on this reckoning have a present average
density of 300-350 per km .
5.        Land Tenure.  The Sugar Belt, with about 75% of the land under cul-
tivation, is characterized by two distinct groupings of farmers. These are
medium to large farmers with holdings ranging from 25 to 2,000 ha and the
small farmers with an average holding of about four hectares. The large farms
were owned by European and other immigrant cultivators before independence;
very few Europeans remain at present. Some Asian farmers also have been sell-
ing their farms. Although traditional villages have existed in the area for
a long time, the majority of the small farms have been created since independ-
ence. Land adjudication has been completed on about 50% of the land and is
expected to be completed for the whole area in the next three years.
6.        Type of Farming.  The Sugar Belt is traditionally a diversified,
subsistence crop area with considerable grazing in the poorly drained, rocky
and steep areas. Cane had been grown by large estates for over 50 years
and on smaller farms for about a decade. Sisal was also once a prominent
cash crop. Principal subsistence crops include maize, millet, cassava,
beans, and sweet potatoes. Cultivation is mostly done by hand tools in sub-
sistence farming. Part-time farming is common as there exist ample employ-
ment opportunities in nearby Kisumu town and witb the sugar companies.
7.        Communications.  Since the turn of the century the rail link Kisumu-
Nairobi-Mombasa has played a crucial role in the economy of Nyanza Province.
Sugar mills were deliberately sited close to the line. The railway traverses
the Sugar Belt, rather more cane land being north of the track than south,
mainly because there are extensive swamps and places with impermeable soil to
the south. The Sugar Belt's tarred road network is of recent origin, compri-
sing loops and spurs from the main B-1 highway from Kisumu via Kericho to
Nairobi. There are small airstrips near each sugar mill and scheduled internal
services from Kisumu Airport.
8.        Factory Zones and Rezoning Proposals.  Since 1966 there has been
mutually agreed geographic demarcation between suppliers of cane to each
of the mills whose zones are adjacent - and indeed would overlap if economic
distance of transportation were the sole criterion for drawing zone limits.
There have been occassional revisions of zonal boundaries and their position
as of May 1977 is shown on an inset, Map IBRD 12988. Rezoning as proposed by



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the appraisal mission and already implemented (Legal Notice No. 227 of
August 19, 1977), is designed to rationalize the main anomalies in the travel-
distance framework and in cross-transporting. Starting with Miwani, that mill
is much closer than Chemelil to the areas farmed by the Kibisem, Nyang and
Harambee Cooperatives that their cane will be directed to Miwani, which indeed
received it until a few years ago. Likewise, immediately east of Chemelil
mill the Godabuoro Settlement, the western end of Tamu and the Twinbridge
sector of Songhor Settlement have been switched from Muhoroni to Chemelil.
The Muhoroni mill shortfall should be made up by accepting from points that
are equidistant, either from there or from Chemelil, all the production that
was previously routed sometimes to one of those mills, sometimes to the other;
the farms concerned are in the Ainomotua valley upstream of Kapurte Hill and
Senetwa. An equitable redistribution of cane supplies among the three mills is
expected to result from this rezoning. In order to assure a smooth transition,
Government, at negotiations, would furnish a plan of implementation of Legal
Notice No. 227 over a 3-4 year period, acceptable to the Bank/IDA. Expansion
of cane at the top of the Nandi Escarpment is not provided for under the
Project as the economic justification of the steep road link to Miwani is
unproven as yet; funds are included, however, for a study (Appendix 1).
9.        Climate for Sugarcane.  Tate and Lyle 1/ dealt thoroughly with
rainfall and temperature in relation to cane. Some climatic observations not
utilized by Tate and Lyle have been examined, in particular the full 1904/76
monthly rainfall log for Muhoroni and the 1923/76 data for Miwani. These
long records give the following monthly means and monthly drought risk factors:
Chance of Failing to
Receive 50 mm Rain in
Rainfall in mm                  Month Indicated
Miwani    Muhoroni             Miwani        Muhoroni
Month             (54 Years) (73 Years)
January                 66          56                50%            52%
February                85         107                32%            34%
March                  144         153                 11%           15%
April                  220         238                 0%             2%
May                    180         182                 0%              4%
June                    92         113                18%            22%
July.                   87         104                26%            22%
August                 104         123                 5%            10%
September               93          98                20%            24%
October                 89          82                14%            28%
November               114         106                26%            31%
December                96          98                26%            26%
Year                 1,370       1,460
1/   Tate and Lyle Technical Services, Ltd. "Kenya Sugar Industry Expansion
Study, Volumes I-IV (1975), Volumes V-VI (1976)."



-9-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Except in July, Muhoroni has a slightly higher chance than Miwani each month
of receiving less than 50 mm of rain. The 50 mm rainfall is a threshold
below which cane would definitely suffer from stunting and temporary wilting.
However, the similarities between the two mill-sites are more important than
their divergencies. There appear to be only four months in the Nyanza Sugar
Belt when the likelihood is very high that rainfed cane will not be stressed
for water, namely March through May and August. Dry weather for cane ripening
and harvesting is virtually assured November-February at Miwani and October-
February at Muhoroni. January is the height of the dry season. Drought
hazard is probably higher still in the south-west and far west of the Sugar
Belt, where Ahero receives only 1,183 mm of rain annually and Kibos 1,280 mm,
than in the center. It is certainly lowest in the east, where for instance
Koru has a rainfall of 1,740 mm.
10.       Evaporation.  Somewhat longer records for open-water Class A pan
evaporation are available from Kibos (1958/72) and Ahero (1962/70), compared
with that for Chemelil (1968/74). The monthly means are shown below; at all
these stations it is only in April and May that mean rainfall exceeds evapora-
tion losses.
Pan A Evaporation in mm
Kibos            Ahero        Chemelil
(15 Years)       (9 Years)    (7 Years)
Month
January                   236               214           180
February                  215               214           185
March                     204               223           201
April                     173               179           174
May                       160               164           149
June                      160               166           135
July                      162               172           133
August                    174               176           133
September                 190               195           147
October                   198               204           159
November                  185               184           159
December                  214               204           183
Year                    2,271             2,295         1,938
Because most of the minor irrigation proposed under the Project is close
to Chemelil and Muhoroni, it suffices to use the less drastically severe
Chemelil evaporation data to calculate the irrigation need of sugarcane in
Annex 6. However, both on Ahero and in the proposed small irrigated cane
schemes at and near the National Sugar Research Institute, Kibos watering
rates should be based on the rather higher evapotranspiration expected at
that end of the Sugar Belt.



- 10 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
11.       Temperature.  In the lower-lying and medium altitude portions of
the Nyanza Sugar Belt the mean temperature is close to 22 C without great
seasonal variations. Above Songhor and Koru, however, temperatures fall over
quite a short distance. The highest point in the Sugar Belt at which cane is
currently being grown may well be 1,950 m near Kamarero, above the River
Ainomotua. Several fields are around 1,800 m altitude where the mean
temperature throughout the year is likely to be about 18 C. This is decidedly
cool for cane, but every indication is that 24-month cuts (less for ratoons)
will warrant continuation of sugar-growing at such high elevations, provided
suitable soils 8n gentle to moderate slopes are used. The diurnal temperature
variation of 17 C results in a low level of plant respiration during the night
hours, conducive to a high sucrose content in the sugarcane.
12.       Geology.l/  Cane is grown mainly on deep alluvium and fairly deep
colluvium (2-4 m of unconsolidated soil mantle over hard rock) within the
Nyando and Kibos river basins, the upper catchments of which are floored
by igneous rocks, generally intermediate to acid, gneisses, granites and
pegmatites, as along the 600 m high south-facing Nandi Escarpment. In con-
trast, basic lavas predominate on the eastern hills, giving rise to soils
1/   The major bibliography items used for the discussions on geology, soils,
etc. in this annex are:
-    J. Thorp and co-authors (1960) "Soil Survey of the Songhor
Area Kenya." Government Printers, Nairobi.
-    R. M. Scott, R. Webster and C. J. Lawrence (1970) "Atlas of
Land Systems in Western Kenya." MVEE, Christchurch, England.
-    V. D'Costa and S. H. Ominde (1973) "Soil and Land Use Survey
of the Kano Plain." Nairobi University, Department of Geography
Occasional Memorandum 2.
-    W. Siderius and F. N. Muchena (1977) "Soils and Environmental
Conditions of Agricultural Research Stations in Kenya."
Kenya Soil Survey Miscellaneous Paper 5.
-    Coast Province Soil Survey Unit (1968) "Soils in the Country
Around Shimba Hills Settlement, Kikonyeni and Jombo Mountain."
Mimeographed.
-    N. N. Nyandat and 0. Oswago (1975) "Soils of Ramisi Sugar
Estates, Coast Province." National Agricultural Laboratories,
Nairobi.
-    D. Michieka, B. J. van de Pouw and J. J. Vleeshouwer (1977)
"Soils of the Kwale-Mombasa-Lungalunga Area." National
Agricultural Laboratories, Nairobi.



- 11 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
much richer in plant nutrients than elsewhere (including nitrogen as the
high altitude coolness prevents rapid decomposition of organic matter).
A lower tableland of more resistant lava borders the south of the Sugar
Belt, between the Nyando and Kaplelach streams. Some of the gentle col-
luvial gradients and all the large stretches of alluvial flats, together
constituting the Kano plain, rest on beds of volcanic ash, lacustrine clay
and mudstone which are very slowly permeable. This formation extends westward
to the shores of Lake Victoria. Thin strips of alluvial levees and terraces
flank the main rivers throughout their courses and protrude above the water-
logged Kano plain deposits as sinuous "islands" of more pervious soils.
13.       Topography.  The altitude range in the Sugar Belt is about 1,130 m
from almost Lake Victoria level at Buoye (1,140 m) to a mountain summit in
Kunyak Settlement (2,270 m). However, nearly all cane fields lie between
1,150 m and 1,800 m on flat to gently sloping land at lower elevations, but
utilizing some fairly steep terrain, to about 20% gradient, along eastern
hillsides. Where the land slopes at less than about 1% and the soil, or
subsoil, is high in clay, a normal combination of circumstances, surface
drainage problems are encountered in cane fields (Annex 7). On the other
hand, gradients exceeding about 10% may be subject to erosion unless pre-
cautions are taken. No serious soil losses have as yet been incurred on large
areas of cane fields. At the foot of the Nandi Escarpment, from Kibos to
Chemase, there are sheet-eroded spots but many of these were probably caused
by presugar cultivation of annual crops, notably maize. Cane affords good
protection to rather steep land, compared with annuals, and it is universally
contour-planted in the Nyanza Sugar Belt. Provided this practice continues,
no special soil conservation measures will be required, other than cut of
drains to intercept down slope flows which would otherwise cause sheet and
gully erosion during heavy rains, but vigilance against any deterioration of
the satisfactory situation will be necessary.
14.       Altitude Bands for Sugarcane.  The physical environment differs
sufficiently throughout the Nyanza Sugar Belt to render worthwhile a
delineation of subdivisions of it with relatively uniform conditions of
geology, topography, and soils. The main determinant is elevation, so the
terms High (Altitude) Band, Medium Band and Low Band are used to distinguish
these regions (Maps IBRD 12988 and IBRD 12989). The High Band occupies the
hilly to mountainous areas above the generalized 1,400 m contour. The Low
Band fills the flood plains and adjacent mainly very gentle slopes of the
lower Nyando and lower Kibos alluvial basins; most cane fields in the Low Band
would benefit markedly from artificial drainage. The Medium Band has moderate
slopes and well drained or only slightly impermeable soils.
Maturation Period of Cane
15.       Although the recommended age at harvest is 22 months for plant
cane and 18 months for ratoons, indications are that in a normal season,
plant cane may be ready to harvest at 18-22 months and ratoons at 15-18
months. Due to factory limitations and particularly transportation problems,



- 12 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
the estates and outgrowers have been producing more cane tonnage than can be
handled and harvesting of over-aged cane - frequently up to 30 month old plant
cane and 24 month old ratoons - has been the rule rather than the exception.
16.       Soil Classification.  The Kenya Soil Survey now uses the FAO/UNESCO
World Soil Map Legend, described by Dudal et al 1/ as the basis for its
identification of soil profiles and mapped soil units. In the Sugar Belt
there is a clear need for correlation between this new classification system
and those of the Songhor (1960) and Kano plain (1973) surveys. For two
kinds of soil that are important in cane production the equivalence appears
to be as follows:
Mbereri series (Songhor) = Conrad series (Kano)
- Rhodic Ferralsol (FAO/UNESCO). This is the main
well-drained red loam of the High and Medium Bands.
Kibegori series (Songhor) = Miwani series (Kano) = Pellic
Vertisol (FAO/UNESCO). This black cracking clay covers
the upper margins of the Low Band.
In the High Band as well as Ferralsols there are likely to be many represen-
tatives of Cambisols, including the most fertile dark brown loam to clay
profiles. In the Medium Band Acrisols and Ferralsols will be common, and
in the Low Band Gleysols in addition to Vertisols. The moderately vertic
(cracking and swelling) nature of potentially very productive land, with e.g.
Chemelil and Volo series, may well place them within Vertic Luvisols. Under
the Project, harmonizing the soil classification methods throughout the Sugar
Belt is proposed not merely to achieve pedological coordination but also as an
integral step in arriving at land evaluation procedures (Appendix 2).
17.       Land Evaluation.  Mapped suitability ratings specifically for
sugarcane would help in future decisions about expansion of cane fields,
reallocation from cane to another crop or vice versa, the magnitude of
applicability with respect to new husbandry techniques, irrigability,
further drainage possibilities, further zoning revisions and planning of
infrastructure and services. An attempt is made in Maps IBRD 12990 and IBRD
12991 to indicate the suitability of the Sugar Belt for high-input cane
growing. The suitability classes used, S1 to S4, reflect the approach and the
nomenclature of the FAO 2/ framework for land evaluation. The Maps would
require checking and refining during the Project soil investigations (Appendix
1). Refinements are expected to take several forms, e.g. separate suitability
1/   R. Dudal and co-authors (1974) "The Soil Map of the World at Scale
1:5,000,000 - Explanatory Notes." FAO/UNESCO, Paris.
2/   Food and Agriculture Organization (1976) "Framework for Land
Evaluation." Rome.



13
ANNEX 2
Page 8
ratings for the main recommended cane varieties (Co 421 and Co 617); resolution
of uncertainties about cane performance on rather stony soils in the light of
yield and performance data to be accumulated over the next few years from new
fields in the High Band; and perhaps a concentration of effort on the more
difficult and intractable land to drain, after experience has been gained with
the Project drainage scheme.
18.       Soil Analytical Data.  Tate and Lyle (1976) drew attention to the
main chemical factors limiting cane production. Fresh results both from
the National Agricultural Laboratory, Nairobi, and from the sugar companies,
confirm that N and P are the important deficient nutrients. The median content
of the topsoil nitrogen at 30 sites representing the lighter, more permeable
soils growing cane in the Sugar Belt is 0.16% and the heavier, less permeable
soils (70 samples) contain 0.18% total topsoil N. Available phosphorus, by
the Bray No. 2 extraction methods, has been measured on more samples and
shows distinctly higher values in alluvial terrace deposits than elsewhere.
Selected results are for the Tennant series (well drained alluvium, 15 samples),
38 ppm; other lighter soils, 29 ppm; alluvial clay complex (15 samples), 33
ppm; other heavier soils (80 samples) median, 14 ppm. Under the Project, only
one fairly high level of P dressing is recommended as a safety measure for all
soils (Annex 6). Although potassium is occasionally rather low, i.e. less
than 0.1 milliequivalent K per 100 g soil, it would suffice to give all cane
only occasional maintenance dosages or no K whatever. Toxicity of Na should
not be a problem on the vast majority of cane fields. Miwani reported that
their most sodic soils responded well to an application of as little as 5 t/ha
gypsum. It may be that a sulphur lack was being corrected rather than a
sodium excess. The gypsum might also have acted as a physical amendment,
since it appeared to inhibit surface capping. This had previously been
a serious problem on slightly sodic soils especially in years, unlike 1977,
with no prolonged periods of deeply penetrating heavy rains. Soils which
are saline or alkaline or both certainly exist in the Sugar Belt, but avoid-
ing them for future cane farming would not be difficult. The build-up and
spread of sodic conditions in irrigated areas would be guarded against under
the Project by provision of adequate drainage for irrigated fields (Annex 4).
19.       Remedies for Soil Problems.  In order of importance as regards
area of cane fields affected, the main soil defects may be summarized as:
(a) Infertility; solution: N and P application (Annex 6).
(b) Impermeability and allied conditions of slight salinity
and/or slight alkalinity locally; solution: while
improved drainage can be provided to remove surface
water accumulations, thereby permitting quicker drying
of field after heavy rain, it is questionable whether
the internal drainage of the less permeable soils can
be significantly improved at an economist cost. In these
high density closely packed soils the percentage of total
soil moisture which is available to the plant is low and



- 14 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
even when some improved drainage can be achieved the benefits
may be largely effected by the earlier onset of drought conditions
in the dry season. The following would appear to offer the best
solutions to the problems of these soils:
(i) provision of adequate drains to intercept surface run-
off and prevent the collection of surface water in low-
lying areas.
(ii) reducing the harvesting season to not more than about
8 months in an average year to avoid excessive compaction
caused by transport equipment traversing the fields in the
wet season. Harvesting over 9 months might be considered
a maximum during years of particularly heavy cane yields.
(iii) providing more pronounced ridges along the cane rows by
using better earthing up practices. Growing of cane on
cambered beds will undoubtedly prevent ponding of surface
water providing the cane rows run across rather than along
the bed. Access for interrow cultivation and harvesting
would however be difficult and construction and main-
tenance of such a system would be costly. Its economic
justification would probably depend on the extent to which
soil internal drainage might be improved and it would be
worthwhile undertaking trials of the system.
(c) Lack of available moisture in the root zone, accompanied
by access to dry-season water supplies; solution: irriga-
tion (Annex 4).
(d) Stoniness; solution: assuming that stone removal is not
contemplated, avoidance of the land concerned or, if
trials prove successful, persistence with cane-growing
amid the stones. It is unclear as yet how stony a
possible field must be to warrant rejection. The mission
recommends that all stony soils derived from basic lavas
in the High Band, downgraded by Thorp et al (1960) to the
unfit class for cane, should be closely examined before
discarding, for already in the foothills of Tinderet
good cane is growing on such land, provided enough
interstitial soil is present.
20.       Focus on Best Cane Soils.  Miwani and Chemelil nucleus estates have
information on cane yields by soil series which is useful in forecasting
future cane performance. At Miwani, while most poorly permeable fields
with standard inputs (i.e. excluding drainage) have recently been yielding
about 26 tons of cane per ha yearly, the Medium Band well-drained soils of
medium texture, such as Mbereri series, have produced around 50 t/ha annually.
On the Ngeta section of Chemelil estate the Kundos series, the most nearly



ANNEX 2
Page 10
comparable soil to Mbereri, yields at about 53 t/ha annually, whereas the
black Kibegori clays produce, when drained at best 42 t/ha annually. Dark
brown clays in the Chemelil Low Band outyield all other soils in that Band.
Chemelil series produces up to 60 t/ha cane annuaLly and Volo series up to
58 t/ha both with high inputs including adequate artificial drainage. Al-
though no firm yield estimates for large areas are yet to hand, High Band
soils derived from basic lavas (e.g. Kipsesin, Martin and Sossok series)
will probably give on average 60-70 t/ha cane yearly under good management.
Wherever the logistics and the terrain permit development, such land should
be brought into sugar growing.
Ramisi Zone
21.       Location.  Ramisi estate occupies three parcels of land strung out
along the Mombasa-Lungalunga road for a distance of 45 km (Map IBRD 12997).
The factory is 70 km by road southwest of Mombasa at 4032'S latitude and
39024'E longitude, 2 km from the Indian Ocean coast. At present, the few
outgrowers have cane fields within 18 km of the mill. No factory zoning is
necessary, and cane supplies have in the past and can in future come from
anywhere within economic haulage radius, with the important proviso regarding
future production that only the relatively small proportion of good soils in
the semicircle of mill hinterland should be developed.
22.       History.  Before 1927, when Ramisi factory was built, the area
produced coconuts from a few plantations but was largely settled by people
of Digo stock. Their descendants farm the land surrounding Ramisi estate
and other large properties. Since its inception the sugar industry here
has employed as cane-cutters generally not the local people but migrant
laborers from the Nyanza Sugar Belt and environs.
23.       Demography.  From Map IBRD 12996 and tables of Swinson 1/ it can
be judged that the Ramisi sug r zone in the broadest sense had a 1969 popula-
tion of 42,000 on some 600 km . Swinson cites the growth rate as 3.4% annually.
On that basis, it is estimated that in 1979 the gone will have 61,000 inhabit-
ants. The 1969 population qensity was 70 per km , de5reasing from north
(Msambweni location, 105/km ) to south (Pongwe, 29/km ).
24.       Land Tenure and Type of Farming.  Apart from the sugar company
estate and a few other large farms, the Ramisi area is characterized by
small subsistence farms. Among the cash crops produced are cashews, mangoes,
cassava and limes. Maize and sweet potatoes are the principal food crops.
Cultivation is done by hand but bullock are common, with contract tractor
operators serving a few locations. Land adjudication has been completed
on most of the area.
1/  W. Swinson, "Existing and Projected Population in Planning Areas of
Kwale District." Special Rural Development Program, Kwale, Coast
Province, 1975.



- 16 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11
25.       Communications.  There are no public railways or scheduled air
routes serving Ramisi. The nucleus estate has an airstrip. The Mombasa-
Tanga tarred road, the A-14, traverses the area. West and north of the
nucleus estate the murram road C-108 runs from Mrima via Kikoneni to Galu.
Several Class D and E roads, upon most of which little maintenance is
carried out, link the C-108 to the A-14.
26.       Climate for Sugarcane.  There are no temperature constraints to
cane growth at Ramisi, where the mean air temperature of 27 0C varies little
from month to month. However the diurnal temperature variation of only about
60 C results in a high plant respiration rate coinciding with the high night
time temperature which adversely affects the sucrose in cane. Rainfall and
drought risk data for Ramisi (1927/76) are presented below, along with open-
water Class A pan evaporation figures for Port Reitz near Mombasa (1950/66),
which are representative of Kenya's south coast.
Chance of Failing to
Receive 50 mm Rain in    Evaporation in mm
Rainfall in mm        Month Indicated             Class A Pan
at Ramisi            at Ramisi                at Port Reitz
Month           (50 Years)             (50 Years)               (17 Years)
January                23                     86%                    210
Februarv               15                     90%                    204
March                  72                     44%                    220
April                 246                      2%                    180
May                   348                      0%                    152
June                  152                     10%                    148
July                  113                     12%                    145
August                 84                     26%                    162
September              63                    40%                     180
October                87                     42%                    198
November              104                     30%                    200
December               63                     44%                    204
Year                1,370                                          2,203
For Mombasa there are 87 years of rainfall records (1890/1976) and the
monthly drought risk values over that whole period do not differ signif-
icantly from those over the last half-century. The Ramisi drought hazards
are, by analogy, therefore good indicators of the long-term situation, and
the varying shortages of water for rainfed cane from August through March
stand out clearly. Examination in detail of the Ramisi record reveals,
however, that averaging of the monthly rains from August to December does
not bring out the fact, of more benefits in cane planting than to standing
crops, that often one of those five months has heavy rains in an individual
year. Ramisi data reflect the climate of most of its zone, although the
Kikoneni area and Shimba foothills have a rather more reliable "little rains"
season in October-December.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
27.       Geology and Topography.  The Shimba Hills are grit and sandstone
uplands rising to 400 m some 25 km from the coast near Ramisi. Beneath them
there are dissected plateaux also resting on sandstone and, lower down, on
unconsolidated reddish sands, the Magarini formation, in the vicinity of
Kikoneni where the smallholder sugarcane currently farthest inland is being
planted, at elevations around 130 m. The Magarini beds are set as geomor-
phologically eroded residual tablelands amid a "sea" of the coarser greyish
Kilindini sands, which lap up to about the 40 m contour. Within a band along
the shore, usually 3-5 km wide, there are coral limestone raised beaches
characterized by pockets of soil in solution hollows among outcrops of jagged
reef.
28.       Soil Classification.  In the nomenclature of Michieka et al (1977)
the nucleus estate canelands have predominantly Albic Arenosols, grey to white
sands overlying Kilindini beds, as their growth medium. In shallow depres-
sions there are Gleyic Luvisoils, whose heavier profiles are rather slowly
permeable. Some small cane fields can be carved out of the coral rag,
wherever the pockets of Rhodic Ferralsols (red sandy loam over sandy clay)
coalesce sufficiently. Most cane outgrowers are farming land similar to that
at Ramisi. A significant minority of the existing sugar plantations are,
however, on Orthic and Rhodic Ferralsols formed from the Magarini strata, the
deep brown and red loams on Mrima section of the nucleus estate and at some
places east of that, to Kigomberu. Alone among the zone's soils, these have
in combination a fairly good moisture retention capacity and yet no risk of
waterlogging or perched water table problems. A1L the soils are deficient in
nitrogen and phosphorus, the medium total N contents of 50 tested topsoils
being 0.08% and median available P in 140 samples being 15 ppm. Potassium is
reasonably well supplied in many soils; the median topsoil value approaches
0.2 milliequivalents per 100 g soil for 140 samples. This low fertility status,
made worse by rapid leaching of nutrients during the rainy season limits the
growth of cane during a period when temperature and moisture availability are
optimal. The present practice of leaving a heavy mulch of trash from the un-
burnt cane in ratoon fields may further reduce available N in ratoons while
doing little to conserve moisture in dry weather. The rapid onset of drought
conditions in the dry season results in moisture availability being a con-
straint over much of the remainder of the year. The combined effects of these
constraints severely limit cane yields under rainfed conditions.
29.       Land Elevation.  The delineation on Map IBRD 12997 of the potential
for sugarcane culture gives an idea of the very varied resource base in Ramisi
zone. The objective of expansions to new rainfed cane areas would be to
maximize soil moisture conservation by choosing brown and red loam (Orthic and
Rhodic Ferralsol) tracts of land with gentle to moderate slopes - where
possible not exceeding about 12% gradient. On the map the patchy distribution
of these Class SI areas is apparent. The Ramisi estate plans fit well with
the overall aim, as the desirable soils and slopes cover most of the Mrima-
Bumbani extension and some of the Kuramojo valley new lands (the rest of that
block is fairly steep). Outgrower tracts would not, however, prove easy to
site judiciously, except around Kikoneni-Kigomberu and in a few other locali-
ties. Great caution would have to be exercised before going ahead with any



- 18 -
ANNEX 2
Page 13
expansion due north of the factory, along the Ramisi River, as sandy loose
Arensols dominate that valley. Likewise the Pongwe-Majoreni sector does not
seem to be a very good prospect for sugarcane; it has an alternation of
Arenosols with Gleyic Luvisols or even more swampy Gleysols. These are
physical determinants of that locality's low population density (Annex 4).
Limited expansion might be possible there, but under the Project there would
be a more certain outcome, in terms of expected yields (up to 50-53 tons per
ha yearly), if other areas within 25 km of the mill were developed, including
parts of Marenji Forest near the road, more land north of Mrima Hill, and a
good locality east of Mafisini. Yet further developments on red loams could
be envisaged if at any time an addition to the proposed 9,000 or 10,000 ha of
cane were to be contemplated. The clearing costs in savannah and open wood-
land which the Class SI soils carry would not be unduly high, especially if
advantage were taken of shifting cultivation fallow areas and heavily forested
groves are avoided. On most existing cane fields with poor excessively
permeable soils remedies for defects are difficult to invoke. Localized
impermeability could be overcome by better land shaping and improved husbandry.
There would be no need to undertake a separate scheme to ameliorate the
drainage. Over the small area for which irrigation water could be provided
under the Project, no highly retentive soils occur, so the benefits of
sprinkler irrigation (though superior to gravity feed of water) would not be
as great as they would in better cane-growing terrain.
May 30, 1978



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Nandi Hills Extension Study
1.        In an effort to increase available cane supplies in the Miwani
zone, Government has been supporting a project to establish some 1,200 ha
of cane on the Nandi escarpment, about one-third of which has actually
been planted. The designated area on the escarpment is at an altitude of
about 1,800 m, or about 600 m above the Sugar Belt cane areas. Rainfall is
plentiful, but the high altitude and lower temperatures slow cane growth
somewhat; average yields are -expected to match the best yields in the
present Miwani area.
2.        The main constraint in the Nandi Hills development are the dis-
tance from the Miwani factory, which is 35 km from the remotest point, and
a steep climb of about 14 km on a low-standard gravel road which would make
cane transport costly and hazardous. Test shipments conducted to date have
not proven satisfactory. An upgrading of the road would be necessary, al-
though the degree and cost of upgrading cannot be determined without an
engineering study. A major improvement to tarmac standard, should such prove
necessary, could be very costly in that extremely difficult terrain, and the
limited possibilities for cane development in the Hills may make heavy
infrastructure investments economically unattractive. Although expansion
possibilities to a reasonable volume, excluding the escarpment, already
would be realized in the existing zone under the Project, the Miwani factory
could be adapted to absorb the additional cane from the escarpment.
3.        The Project would provide funds to determine the suitability of
the Nandi cane farming extension area for cane production and to make an
assessment of the cost of production of cane and of transport to the Miwani
factory. Suitable modes of transport would be identified and an engineering
study would be carried out as a basis for estimating road construction and
maintenance costs. The study would also cover alternatives of utilizing
the cane-growing potental on the Nandi Hills, such as establishing a small
sugar factory in the new area. A full financial and economic evaluation
would be made of the alternatives considered.
4.        The study would be conducted by the Kerya Sugar Authority with
the assistance of consultants; approximately 10 months of expert services
would be required. The cost is estimated at KShs. 736,000 (KShs 919,000
or US$110,000 including contingencies); further details are shown in
Annex 11, Table 33.
December 20, 1977



- 20 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summarized Specifications for Further Soil Investigations
in the Nyanza Sugar Belt
1.        The aims of the proposed studies would be:
(a) To harmonize the legends of existing soil maps and
to reclassify the soils, with remapping where needed,
in the current Kenya Soil Survey nomenclature.
(b) To evaluate the soils, in the field and by interpreting
laboratory findings, and the other relevant environmental
factors (essentially climate, topography, hydrology)
for rainfed sugarcane grown with appropriate management
and material inputs.
(c) To fill up gaps in the mapping of soils and of land
suitability for cane.
(d) To characterize the physical and chemical nature of the
soil on land to be (i) irrigated and (ii) drained.
2.        The area concerned covers about 100,000 ha including the 40,000 ha
of cane planned under the Project. Irrigability studies on at most 3,000 ha
and drainage soil mapping on at most 16,000 ha would be needed.
3.        The scale of the investigation would be semidetailed with 1:50,000
presentation (as the existing Songhor and Kano plain soil maps). Soil
inspections would be made every 25-30 ha on land not previously surveyed,
i.e. Miwani nucleus estate and neighboring large farms, the upper Ainomotua
valley and the eastern and southern fringes of Muhoroni zone. Two soil
scientists, either both Kenyan or an expatriate specialist and a counterpart,
would undertake the study.
4..       The timing should be as soon as new Nyanza Sugar Belt airphotos are
available (Annex 7), with no need to wait for contoured 1:5,000 engineering
plans. The probable duration of this element of the Project would be two
years. The report text and maps would be submitted to the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture. The main users of the findings would be agricultural
departments of the three factories and staff of the National Sugar Research
Institute.
5.        The cost would be KShs. 1.67 million (US$210,000) including pro-
vision for purchase and running of two 4-wheel drive vehicles.
December 20, 1977



- 21 -
ANNEX 3
Page  1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Sugar Zones
A. Introduction
1.        A sugar zone comprises a sugar factory, the factory's nucleus estate
and small and large outgrower farms. The four Project sugar companies owning
the factories and nucleus estates are very dissimilar with respect to owner-
ship, management, organization and structure of agricultural production, the
physical condition of factory assets, financial results etc., due partly to
historical factors and partly to environmental conditions. In this annex, the
companies' ownership, organization and management aspects are described first,
followed by factory and then financial aspects. The zones' outgrower situa-
tion is presented last. A detailed description of agricultural aspects is
included in Annex 6.
B. Ownership, Organization and Management of
Project Sugar Companies
Miwani
2.        Miwani Sugar Mills, Ltd., established in 1923, is a private company
owned by an Asian family with a primarily Asian management team. Employing
1,400 permanent staff with eight expatriates, Miwani has a highly centralized
management system. The company has a long history of good relations with the
large farmers in the zone who are primarily Asians. At present, Miwani does
not provide services or credit to outgrowers and the agricultural program is
concerned only with the nucleus estate. The company is managed by a Board of
Directors and a General Manager. There are four departments, the Accounting
Department, Factory Department, Personnel Department and the Technical Depart-
ment (Agriculture).
Chemelil
3.        The Chemelil Sugar Company, Ltd., formed in 1964 is 97% Government-
owned through the Agriculture Development Cooperation and the Development
Finance Company of Kenya (Annex 1). The company is managed by Bookers Agri-
cultural and Technical Services, Ltd., of the United Kingdom on a management
agreement with no equity interest. The agreement, which is effective for a
period of five years commencing March 16, 1976, is renewable and provides for



- 22 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
a fixed annual management fee plus a commission on profits. The Bookers
management team has been reduced to eight expatriates from over 20 originally
who have been replaced by Kenyans after a prolonged period of training Kenyan
managers and technicians. The company is now in a transition period of
improving industrial relations and efficiency. Serious employee relation
problems which plagued the company in the past apparently have now been satis-
factorily resolved; the company has about 1,500 employees. After many years
of difficulty in dealing with small-scale outgrowers, Chemelil in recent years
has been working by contract with the Sugar Belt Cooperative Union and the
cooperative societies. This arrangement has improved relations and increased
production. Under the Board of Directors there is a General Manager and four
departments, i.e., the Accounting Department, Factory Department, Personnel
Department, and the Agriculture Department.
Muhoroni
4.        East African Sugar Industries, Ltd., founded in 1962, is owned
jointly by the Agriculture Development Corporation (84%) and the Mehta Group,
Ltd. (16%). The Mehta Group manages the company through its Uketa Development
Corporation, Ltd., a limited liability company incorporated in Kenya. The
management agreement has been concluded for a period of seven years, effective
December 5, 1973. The management fee consists of a fixed annual amount and
additional fees and a commission based on annual profits. Despite its major-
ity Government ownership the company has more of the characteristics of the
private companies because of the management system employed by the Mehta
Group. With a permanent staff of 550, there are 17 expatriate managers and
technicians. Up to the present, Muhoroni has operated as a factory with no
nucleus estate, and no agricultural department. The-privately-owned Nyando
Estate is being acquired for a nucleus estate and an agricultural department
is being formed; completion of the purchase would be a condition of negotia-
tions. Under the Board of Directors and General Manager there are four
departments, i.e. the Work Department (Factory), Personnel and Administration
Department, Accounting Department, and the Stores Department.
Ramisi
5.        The Associated Sugar Company, Ltd., established in 1922 and employ-
ing over 1,000 permanent staff, is a subsidiary of EMCO Kenya, Ltd., which
is privately owned by the Madhvani Group, a diversified international con-
glomerate which formerly operated sugar factories in Uganda. A new management
agreement between EMCO Kenya Ltd. and Ramisi was concluded in March, 1977.
The heavily centralized management system employs primarily expatriates in
senior positions. The company, under the direction of a General Manager, has
seven departments: Head Office, Accounting, Stores, Industrial Relations,
Medical, Factory and Plantation.



- 23 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
D. Sugar Factory Aspects
6.        Chemelil and Muhoroni are relatively new factories commissioned in
the later 1960's. Miwani and Ramisi are older factories commissioned in the
1920's. The three factories in the Nyanza area have been modernized and
expanded in recent years and are in generally good condition. The Ramisi
factory has developed and expanded over the years primarily by installing
second-hand machinery and the condition of the factory is generally poor.
Cane and Sugar Production
7.        All of the Project sugar factories are c:haracterized by inadequate
cane supplies. The combined present rated annual production capacity of the
four factories is about 7,300 tons of cane per day (TCD), or 190,000 tons of
sugar as shown in Table 1. The actual production in 1976 was only 103,600
tons or about 54% of available production capacity. In the Nyanza Sugar Belt,
total annual cane and sugar production has not varied significantly since
about 1969 (as shown in Table 2).  The annual differences are within limits
for rainfed cane cultivation practices in the area.
Factory Equipment and Capacity
8.        Chemelil and Muhoroni have recently undertaken rehabilitation and
expansion programs of their relatively new factories. Equipment is generally
in good condition and ample capacity is installed at most production stations
to handle present production rates. The planned expansion capacity for
Chemelil was 2,880 TCD and for Muhoroni, 2,600 TCI). Present capacities for
both factories are limited by production bottlenecks in the milling station.
In the case of Chemelil, the expansion program was halted before completion
because sufficient cane supplies could not be developed to utilize the planned
expansion capacity. Equipment installation is still not completed for the
Muhoroni expansion program because of delays in equipment deliveries and prob-
lems in comissioning the new equipment. The present capacity is 2,300 TCD
for the Chemelil factory and 2,000 TCD for the Muhoroni factory.
9.        The Miwani factory has been modernized and expanded over the years.
New equipment was installed and equipment was maintained for many production
stations resulting in duplication and a congested factory layout. Present
factory capacity is 2,000 TCD. Some rehabilitation and replacement of equip-
ment would be necessary to insure the operational reliability and long-term
viability of the factory at its present capacity.
10.       The Ramisi factory is in poor condition.  Factory capacity was
increased haphazardly over thie years. A DDS Type II bagasse diffusor has
been installed for years but has never been operated because of insufficient
factory power. A second-hand boiter and new turbogenerator are presently
being instaaled to provide additional steam and electric power.  Present
factory capacity is 1,000 TCD but the operating rate is only about 600 to 700
TCD. Considerable rehabilitation and replacement of equipment would be
necessary to niaintain the loag-term viability of the factory at its present
capacity.



- 24 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Manufacturing Process
11.       All of the factories use three-roller mills to extract juice from
cane. Juice treatment and sugar boiling practices vary among the factories
which all produce a poor quality white sugar. All product sugars are packed
in 100 kg net weight bags. Miwani and Ramisi both use the double sulphitation
process. Chemelil uses the juice sulphitation process. Muhoroni uses the
lime defecation-melt process to produce white sugar. Process control is gen-
erally poor and inadequate. The sugars produced by the factories contain a
high amount of insoluble matter for direct consumption sugar and do not meet
Kenya Sugar Standards for color and, occasionally, for polarization.
Factory Performance
12.       Sugar recoveries are low in the Project factories.  The overall
recovery of sugar from cane depends on the quality of cane and the quality of
work performed in the factory. The quality of factory work is dependent on
the available equipment and staff. At current low production rates, the
factories have excess equipment capacity so that equipment limitation are
usually not a constraint. Limitations of the management staff and operating
personnel are probably the primary reason for the poor factory performance.
Optimizing factory sugar recovery requires continuous attention to the details
of production operations including the organization and coordination of cane
deliveries.
13.       Cane quality is generally uniform across the Nyanza Sugar Belt so
that incoming materials to the three Project factories are generally equiv-
alent. In 1976, overall recoveries ranged from 71% at Miwani to 79% at
Chemelil as shown in Table 3. Muhoroni's overall recovery was 75%. The
current overall sugar recovery levels are substantially below standards
acceptable in sugar industries elsewhere. At present cane quality levels,
overall recoveries in the range of 83% would be a reasonable target for the
short term. Long-term improvement to levels above 85% are feasible. In 1976
the Mumias factory achieved an overall recovery of 85%. Ramisi's overall
recovery was only 71%.
By-Products
14.       Molasses is presently the only significant by-product of the sugar
factories. Bagasse is utilized as fuel to generate steam for the factory
power system and filter cake is plowed into the fields as a fertilizer and
soil conditioner. Molasses is exported or used locally to produce alcohol
and cattle feed. Over the past three years, molasses exports averaged about
33,000 tons, or 53% of the average annual production of about 65,000 tons.
15.       Miwani operates a distillery capable of producing about 1.5 million
litres of 960 v/v ethyl alcohol per year. The distillery capacity is adequate
to supply all of Kenya's requirements for industrial alcohol. In the future



ANNEX 3
Page 5
the distillery will also produce a limited amount of potable alcohol under a
contract with Gilbey's. About 50% of Miwani's current molasses production
is used for alcohol production.
16.       Chemelil produces a molasses and urea mix for use as cattle feed;
about 5,000 tons, or 30% of the company's current molasses production is used
for this purpose. Local molasses sales are controlled and limited to holders
of permits issued by the District Commissioner.
D. Financial Aspects of Project Sugar Companies
17.       Two important factors are paramount in determining the sugar
companies' financial performance:
(a) the Sugar Belt factories have been operating at 50-60%
of available production capacity; and
(b) Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi have not had enough capital.
Miwani
18.       The revenues of Miwani were KShs. 58.7 million in 1976 which rep-
resents a 42% increase from 1973. The variable production costs increased
from KShs. 620/t in 1973 to KShs. 1,428/t in 1976, and the total cost of
sugar per ton increased from KShs. 895 in 1973 to KShs. 2,182 in 1976. The
net income of Miwani was KShs. 1.4 million in 1976 which represents 2% of
revenues. The company's net income has fluctuated since 1973 within the range
of 1% to 2% of revenue as well as equity. In 1976 the company's equity re-
serves were KShs. 96.7 million, retained earnings KShs. 3.2 million, current
assets KShs. 13.1 million and current liabilities KShs. 20.2 million; thus the
current ratio was 0.6. There were no long-term debts in 1976.
Chemelil
19.       The revenues of Chemelil were KShs. 104.9 million in 1976, or 168%
above 1973 levels. The variable production costs increased from KShs. 753/t
in 1973 to KShs. 1,151/t in 1976. Over the same period, the total cost of
sugar per ton increased from KShs. 1,280 to KShs. 1,883. The 1976 net income
of Chemelil was KShs. 22.4 million and represented 21% of revenues. The com-
pany's net income since 1973 has fluctuated within the range of -65% to 21%
of revenue and -49% to 13% of equity. The company's equity was increased from
KShs. 52.2 million in 1973 to KShs. 173.2 million in 1976. Cumulative losses
were KShs. 114.0 million in 1973 and KShs. 115.0 million in 1976. The current
ratio in 1976 was 2.9, while the long-term debt to equity ratio was 25:75
excluding retained earnings, and 49:51 including retained earnings.



- 26 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Muhoroni
20.       The revenues of Muhoroni were KShs. 62.2 million in 1976 which rep-
resents a 66% increase from 1973. The variable production costs increased
from KShs. 634/t in 1973 to KShs. 1,299/t in 1976, and the total cost of
sugar per ton increased from KShs. 915 to KShs. 1,982.   The company's net
income was KShs. 7.6 million in 1976, representing 12% of revenues. Its net
income since 1973 has fluctuated within the range of 7% to 12% of revenue,
and 9% to 28% of equity. In 1976 equity reserves amounted to KShs. 27.6
million and retained earnings to KShs. 8.4 million. The current ratio in
1976 was 1.4; the long-term debt to equity ratio was 57:43 excluding retained
earnings, and 51:49 including retained earnings.
Ramisi
21.       The revenues of Ramisi were KShs. 14.5 million in 1976, or only
0.7% above those of 1973. The variable production costs increased from
KShs. 872/t in 1973 to KShs. 1,802/t in 1976. The total cost of sugar
per ton increased from KShs. 1,250 in 1973 to KShs. 2,845 in 1976. The
company in 1976 had a net loss of KShs. 2.7 million which represents 19%
of the revenues. Net income since 1973 fluctuated within the range of
-11% to -19% of revenue, and -16% to -28% of equity.  In 1976 the company s
equity reserves were KShs. 9.8 million, cumulative losses KShs. 11.8 million,
and net worth minus KShs. 2.0 million. The current ratio was 1.2, and the
long-term debt to equity ratio, excluding retained earnings, was 69:31 in
1976. The company has a parent company loan of KShs. 17.6 million, interest-
free, in lieu of sufficient equity capital. From a financial point of view,
Ramisi would be hard pressed to become a viable company without the type of
remedies proposed under the Project.
E. Sugarcane Outgrowers
22.       All sugar companies process sugarcane produced by outgrower farmers
in addition to cane produced on their own estates or, in the case of Muhoroni,
the Nyando Estate. Outgrowers' farms vary in size from a few hectares to more
than 2,000 ha. Organizationally, some outgrowers are independent, or unaffil-
iated with any of the farmers' representative bodies, but the majority are
members either of the Sugar Settlement Scheme or a cooperative society.
The Sugar Settlement Scheme
23.       Established in 1964, the 24,300 ha Sugar Settlement Scheme, located
in the Muhoroni zone of the Sugar Belt is governed by the Settlement Fund
Trustees (S.F.T.) acting through the Settlement Department of the Ministry of
Lands and Settlement. Policies are established by the Board of Directors of
the Sugar Settlement Organization which is comprised of representatives
of the Ministry of Agriculture, Cooperatives, Lands and Settlement, the Kenya
Sugar Authority, and one representative each from the seven cooperative
socieites in the scheme. Management responsibility rests with the Executive



- 27 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
Controller, appointed by the Trustees. The scheme is comprised of seven
units with a total of some 3,000 settlers. Each unit has a primary coopera-
tive society which jointly form the Muhoroni Cooperative Union. The union has
had serious management and financial difficulties and is now in Government
receivership.
24.       Within the Settlement Scheme, approximately 21,000 ha is agricul-
tural land of which 5,700 ha are planted to cane. Most of the plots are 4 ha,
with I ha designated for subsistence crops and home site and 3 ha for cane
production. The cane plots are grouped into large blocks of 50-100 ha or
more, ostensibly to facilitate mechanization and efficient management.
Actual production of cane in the blocks has been carried out by a variety
of different arrangements involving private contractors, the societies and
union and the S.F.T. Originally, the S.F.T. performed all agricultural,
harvesting and transport operations. Gradually, some operations, particularly
those requiring hand labor, were turned over to the societies and the indivi-
dual farmers. With the collapse of the union, these functions have reverted
back to S.F.T. which still provides the credit, inputs and most farming
services. The costs of the cane farming operation have exceeded the charges
to the farmers and the S.F.T. has absorbed these excess costs from Ministry
funds, in effect providing a subsidy to the settlement farmers.
25.       A serious problem in the Settlement Scheme is the existence of
settlers who, for a variety of reasons, are not permanent, resident, full-
time farmers. Many of the settlers were not farmers when they were settled.
Part of this group was comprised of urban residents who were either unemployed
or marginally employed. The Government's purpose was to solve the growing
problems in the cities by resettling people in one of the settlement schemes.
These settlers tend to be part-time farmers, depending on jobs in Kisumu,
Nairobi or elsewhere for their main income and sometimes make arrangements
with a resident farmer to "manage" their property or have a second family or
other relative on the property. Some non-resident settlers in the Settlement
Scheme are civil servants living in the cities who are even less inclined to
become full-time farmers. Most of the part-time absentee farmers are parti-
cipating in block-farming schemes managed by S.F.T. So far, block-farming
arrangements have not paid off well for most of the land-holders. Conse-
quently, their incentive to become full-time resident farmers has been fur-
ther diminished. The repayment record on the land purchase and development
loans extended to settlers has been poor, with absentee farmers lagging behind
resident farmers. Of the total loans of KShs. 20 million extended, about
KShs. 12 million is currently in arrears.
26.       While no figures are readily available, it is estimated that the
percentage of civil servants in the scheme is small, perhaps 10%. But all
absentee and part-time farmers together could constitute as much as 50% of the
total settlers, the balance being full-time farmers who were settled from
other rural areas. The Ministry has the legal authority to evict settlers who
do not make payments or do not live on their land and farm it. Although the
repayment record is very poor and absenteeism is widespread, very few if any



- 28 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
violators actually have been evicted. It appears that it would be virtually
impossible to seriously enforce the settlement laws because of political
repercussions.
27.       In summary, the basic problems of the Settlement Scheme are:
(i) the high percentage of absentee or part-time farmers; (ii) the large debt
burden of the farmers for land purchase and development costs which is accruing
compound interest at the rate of 6-1/2% on the arrears; (iii) the low level of
yields and profitability arising from poor soils, drainage problems, poor
agronomic practices, and bad management; (iv) the low level of participation
of the farmers in decision-making and actual farm operations, both being left
to the Settlement Organization; (v) the collapse of the Muhoroni Cooperative
Union, leaving the organization of farmers in disarray.
The Cooperative Movement
28.       The major elements of the cooperative movement in the Sugar Belt,
besides the Muhoroni Cooperative Union with its seven constituent societies
(para. 23) are the 24 marketing societies and 11 production societies affil-
iated with the Sugar Belt Cooperative Union (SBCU), and the unaffiliated
Nyanza Farmers Cooperative Society.
29.       The Marketing Societies.  These societies have been organized in
all three zones of the Sugar Belt since the early 1960s up to the present.
Some societies were formed in traditional villages of subsistence farmers
where there was land suitable for cane. Some large expatriate farms were
purchased by groups of Africans organized into "farm purchase societies"
which later became marketing societies. Most of the farmers in these soci-
eties operate under independent management. They contract the factory or a
private contractor for land preparation, with SBCU generally coordinating the
harvesting and transport. Production credit requirements are handled through
the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (Annex 1) or Ministry of Agriculture
loans. Although functioning better than the Settlement Scheme or the col-
lective block system in the production societies, the marketing societies
are not producing what they could be. Lack of coordination, poor extension,
shortage of equipment for cultivation and transport, flooding, bad roads,
labor problems and farmer dissatisfaction all exist here as well.
30.       The Production Societies.  Production societies total about 1,800
farm families and hold about 3,800 ha of land of which 2,800 ha is currently
planted to cane. Many of these societies' members were settled by Government
on their land in the mid-1960's, primarily in the Chemelil zone, the others
were farmers who lived in the area previously. They were moved from their
traditional villages along the edge of Lake Victoria where the level of
the lake was raised and their villages were flooded. Each of the resettled
farmers received originally about 3.2 ha for cane and a 0.8 ha homestead for
subsistence crops and homesite. The cane plots were formed into large blocks
which were cultivated by the Chemelil sugar company. Operating primarily
through foreign contract firms and with Government and foreign assistance
loans, Chemelil attempted to produce cane with a centrally controlled program



- 29 -
ANNEX .
Page 9
which was essentially a collective system with no management decisions being
made by farmers. The field extension work with farmers was minimal. Farmers
could not identify with their individual plots of land and workec mainly as
paid casual hire laborers. While the cooperative societies were organized
from the outset, they received only minimal management assistance or training.
Agronomic practices were poor, yields generally low, late harvesting and
transport problems were common and net income to farmers was low. Farmers'
interest in the collective blocks declined and they began to produce "private"
cane under their own management on their subsistence plots.
31.       The Sugar Belt Cooperative Union (SBCU).  In an attempt to
strengthen the cooperative movemert and increase small-scale cane produc-
tion, the Government took the initiative in 1971 to organize the Sugar Belt
Cooperative Union, originally with 13 member societies. A private social
development foundation from Germany, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung (FES),
has been providing financial assistance and advisors to SBCU since 1973.
Beginning in 1973, an agricultural department was established to identify
land for new cane planting, plan and supervise cultivation, and coordinate
harvesting and transport of cane. Its extension program has employed from
25-30 extension staff from the Ministry of Agriculture.
32.       The SBCU took over management control of agricultural operations
and credit and became the intermediary between farmers and the factory,
primarily in the Chemelil zone but also in Miwani and Muhoroni. The factory
became a tractor work contractor along with other private contractors.
However, the technical and management capability of SBCU has not been a
significant improvement over previous arrangements and the level of agronomic
practices and hence yields did not increase significantly. The SBCU has
maintained the decision-making responsibility and farm participation has not
increased sufficiently.
33.       Since 1973, SBCU has undertaken a rather ambitious program of
developing new cane land under strong initiatives from the Government. The
achievements have been generally mixed and in some respects, such as cane
maintenance, rather poor. Several loans were extended to SBCU, totalling
approximately KShs. 26.7 million to develop or rehabilitate some 6,640 ha of
cane. Cost overruns have been considerable and farmers' accounts have not
been kept up to date, creating serious financial difficulties for SBCU. Of
the KShs. 18 million still owed to the Government by SBCU about KShs. 13
million represent liabilities of individual farmers, not all of which are
either documented or recoverable. The Cooperative Production Credit Scheme,
established in 1974 to provide supervised production credit to individual
members growing private cane, promises to be more successful; repayments have
been good so far.
Medium and Large Farms
34.       The majority of these farmers are not African and have been farming
in the area for several generations; a transfer into African ownership has
been occuring at a slow but steady pace. Most of the large farmers are members



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10
of the Nyanza Farmers Cooperative Society, a non-affiliated society without
production or marketing functions which represents the members in negotiations
and discussions with the factories and Government.
Independent Farmers
35.       There are a number of farmers in SBCU and the Settlement Scheme
who grow cane on subsistence plots or other land without institutional credit,
agricultural or marketing services. They sell directly to the factories. A
significant number of other small and large farmers also are unaffiliated,
deal directly with the factory and are able to finance their operations
without organizational assistance.
Ramisi Outgrowers
36.       There are at present only 35' small outgrowers producing cane on
small plots of up to 4 ha at Ramisi, and a few large cane farmers. A coop-
erative society exists which mainly operates a cane transport lorry. There
is no cooperative credit. About 80 outgrowers currently have production
loans from AFC. The Kigombero Special Rural Development Scheme provides
some extension help and formerly provided credit but stopped because
repayment was poor.
December 9, 1977



- 31-           ~ANNEX 3
Table 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Present and Future Sugar Factory Capacity in Kenya
Year       Present Factory   Future Factory   Potential Mill White
Commissioned       Capacity         Capacity 1/      Sugar Production 2/
(TCD)              (TCD)               (tons)
Project Factories
Miwani                   1924            2,000               2,200               57,200
Chemelil                 1968            2,300               2,300               59,800
Muhoroni                 1967            2,000               2,400               62,400
Ramisi                   1927            1,000               1,550               40,300
Subtotal                        7,300              8,450              219,700
Other Factories
Mumias 31                1973            3,000               6,000              156,000
Kabras 4/                1976               96                  96                1,800
Subtotal                        3,096              6,096              157,800
New Factories
Nzoia 5/                 1978              -                 2,000               52,000
South Nyanza 6/          1980              -                 2,000               52,000
Subtotal                                           4,000              104,000
Total                      10,396   -          18,546              481,500
1/ Assumes implementation of the Sugar Rehabilitation Project.
2/ Potential annual production based on 260 operating days and 10% sugar
production from cane. Actual production varies depending on available
cane supplies and actual factory performance.
3/ Mumias factory expansion under construction and commissioning scheduled
for 1979.
4/ Kabras open pan sulphitation white sugar factory, 6 tons cane per hour
capacity for 2 shifts (16 hours).
5/ Nzoia factory under construction and commissioning scheduled for October 1978.
6/ South Nyanza factory commissioning scheduled for 1980. Actual performance
is expected to reach 60,000 t of sugar by 1985 and, with expansion, 90,000 t
by 1988.
July 20, 1977



ANNEX 3
- 32 -                      Table 2
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cane and Sugar Production of Project Sugar Factories
(tons)
Total
Nyanza Sugar Belt                               Project
Miwani     Chemelil   Muhoroni       Total        Ramisi    Factories
Sugarcane
1967       348,284        -        193,566       348,284       n.a.         n.a.
1968       421,336    116,519    220,674         758,529    174,563        933,092
1969       456,642    258,812    296,435    1,011,889    175,291    1,187,180
1970       462,243    436,977    350,527    1,249,747    191,300    1,441,047
1971       378,167    466,777    345,414    1,190,358    180,270    1,370,628
1972       309,635    333,737    266,880         910,252    109,982    1,020,234
1973       427,532    397,164    346,000    1,170,696    171,624    1,342,320
1974       355,421    407,334    316,650    1,079,405    155,570    1,234,975
1975       304,076    413,637    309,022    1,026,735    111,163    1,137,898
1976       291,651    454,803    274,100    1,020,554         84,064    1,104,618
Sugar
1967        29,957        -         18,203        48,160       n.a.        n.a.
1968        35,005      11,179      19,988        66,172      14,493        80,665
1969        38,114      23,020      28,655        89,789      15,006       104,795
1970        37,725      38,993      33,010       109,728      15,363      125,091
1971        30,347      45,355      34,197       109,899      14,304      124,203
1972        26,176      30,044      25,431        81,651       8,285        89,936
1973        37,105      35,676      32,429       105,210      12,195       117,405
1974        30,230      39,226      28,490        97,946      10,922       108,868
1975        26,711      39,921      26,356        92,988       7,505       100,493
1976        25,201      46,146      26,228        97,575       6,071      103,646
July 20, 1977



ANNEX 3
- 33                      Table 3
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of 1976 Kenya Sugar Factories Performance
Miwani      Chemelil    Muhoroni       Ramisi       Mumias
Production
Cane, t         291,720      454,803      274,100        84,064      547,954
Sugar, t         25,236       46,146       26,228         6,062       63,699
Sugar % Cane        8.6         10.1           9.6          7.2         11.1
Tons Cane/
Net Hour         50.4         91.4         56.1          24.9        117.1
Cane
Pol % Cane         12.1         12.6          12.4          9.8         13.6
Fiber % Cane       17.1         16.0          17.2         16.8         14.2
Final Molasses
Apparent Purity   40.3           37.4         38.8         39.5         38.6
Brix               85.8         82.9          94.1         96.9         82.0
Molasses % Cane    4.3            3.4          3.4          4.1          3.5
Recovery and
Losses (Percent
Pol in Cane)
Losses:
Bagasse          10.9          8.8         12.4           9.1          6.5
Filter Cake       2.4          1.7           1.8          1.1          0.5
Molasses         12.2           8.4         10.0         14.3          8.1
Undetermined      3.4          2.2           0.6          4.5          0.2
Total Losses       28.9         21.1          24.8         29.0         15.3
Overall Recovery  71.1           78.9         75.2         71.0         84.7
Pol in Cane       100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0        100.0
Time Analyses
(Percent Total
Time)
Milling Season   100.0          100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0
No Cane          22.6          3.1          17.1         10.2          1.6
Scheduled
Factory Stops  38.7          35.5         19.8          48.4         34.7
Available Time    38.7           61.4         63.1         41.4         63.7
Unscheduled
Factory Stops   5.8           4.7           7.5          3.0         10.4
Net Milling Time  32.9           56.7         55.6         38.4         53.3
Source; Kenya Sugar Authority, Kisumu, April 1977,
July 20, 1977



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigation
A. Introduction
1.        The rainfall pattern and its unreliability are one of the major
factors causing low cane yields both in the Nyanza Sugar Belt and at Ramisi.
Pilot schemes in the Sugar Belt demonstrate that yield increases of the order
30 t/ha per year could be obtained with irrigation.
2.        In the Sugar Belt the use of Lake Victoria as a water resource is,
because of cost, centered on schemes projected for implementation along the
immediate lake shore. The rivers in the Kano plains have a low dry season
flow. A proposal for the diversion of the Sondu River into the Kano plains
for power production and irrigation has not been followed up. At Ramisi
the rivers are not perennial and the problem also becomes one of storage.
Groundater could be an interesting source of supply but not enough work has
been done to determine the extent and firm yield of the acquifer or the
location of the saline interface. In these circumstances only limited,
minor irrigation can be envisaged at present, both for the Sugar Belt and
Ramisi.
B. Present Situation
Nyanza Sugar Belt
3.        The water available for irrigation in the Sugar Belt comes from
the Nyando River and its tributaries, and the Kibos river. A network of
gauging stations has been set up in the Nyando catchment of which 10 are
in the immediate vicinity of the Sugar Belt. There are two stations on the
Kibos. The data is being processed at present by the Hydrological Division of
the Ministry of Water Development but the results are not yet available.
However, the lowest flows ever recorded were extracted from the records and
used to determine the minimum water available for irrigation.
4.        The Nyaldo and its main tributary the Ainomotua have catchment
areas of 1,503 km and 1,373 km , respectively, at their confluence. The
minimui flow recorded at station 1GD3, downstream of th  confluence, was
2.00 m /sec in March 1976. Downstream demand is 1.00 m /sec (para. 7). In
the Nile Basin Water Resources Survey carried out by Sir Alexandsr Gibb and
partners in 1954-1956 the lowest base flow was estimated at 1.8 m /sec at
Ahero. The minimum flow of the Kibos recorded at station 1 HA 4 downstream



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
of the Kisumu water supply intake was 0.27 m /sec in Mirch 1971 (Table 1).
This compares with the 20% probable exceedence (0.23 m /sec) given in the Gibb
report. The monthly discharges of the Nyando and the Kibos for various pro-
babilities need to be verified when analysis of the flow data, now being
undertaken, is complete. Only then can a firm decision be taken on water
availability and, hence, on the irrigable area.
5.        Crop water requirements are related to effective rainfall and Pan A
evaporation since the water demand of cane is approximately the same as Pan A
Evaporation (1,938 mm annual average). As cane needs to be dried off for two
months before harvesting and water demand is reduced for three months after
cutting, the theoretical estimated crop water requirement has been reduced by
24%. With an overall irrigation system efficiency Sf approximately 56%, the
headgate water requirements would be about 11,500 m /ha annually. Consider-
ing the minimum flow in the critical month (March), about 400 ha could be
irrigated from the Kibos river and about 2,000 ha from the Nyando and
Ainomotua rivers, irrigating 12 hours at peak (Table 1). This would not
compromise present irrigation at Ahero (para. 7). Analyses of water sampled
at Ahero pilot scheme show that the water quality is suitable for irrigation.
Irrigation water requirements are shown in Table 2.
6.        Soils in the Project area are described in detail in Annex 2.  There
are about 8,000 ha of soils suitable for furrow irrigation of cane in the
three Sugar Belt zones. This greatly exceeds the 2,000 ha for which water is
available for irrigation.
7.        There are existing pilot schemes under irrigation in the Kano plains
at Ahero and West Kano. These schemes are managed under Dutch technical
assistance provided by ILACO who have a six-year contract, of which four years
are still to run; FAO provided assistance for the period 1968-73. Ahero is
a pumped scheme utilizing run-of-the-river flow from the Nyando to irrigate
770 ha (gross) of rice and 30 ha (gross) of experimental sugarcane. Yield in-
creases under irriiation are discussed in Annex 6. Its present peak water
requirement of 1 m /sec 1/ occurs in May when the rice paddys are being
flooded. The West Kano scheme is planned for 400 ha of cane and 400 ha of
rice under irrigation using water pumped from Lake Victoria. At present,
about 200 ha of cane and 200 ha of rice are under cultivation. In both
cases the sugarcane is furrow irrigated. Furrow length is limited to 200 m
at a grade of 0.2%. At present 120 mm of water is applied through 2 1/sec
siphons every 18 days when about two-thirds of available water is used up.
Overall irrigation efficiency is claimed to be 60%.
1/   ILACO sources indicate peak requirements of up to 1.2 m /sec with
present irrigation efficiency levels.



- 36 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
8.        Approximately 800 ha of cane was successfully irrigated by the
Miwani factory about a decade ago by pumping from the Nyando close to
Chemelil. After rezoning the land was allocated to Chemelil which dis-
continued the irrigation and allowed the system to fall into disrepair.
Ramisi Zone
9.        Mean annual rainfall for the area is about 1,200 mm of which about
700 mm falls from March to June (Annex 2). The water available for irriga-
tion comes from ae existing dam at Musembeni. The catchment area of this
dam is only 18 km which provide an annual runoff of about 1.5 Mcm with 90%
probability of exceedence, or about 5 Mcm with 50% probability. 1/ The dam
is stated to have a capacity of 2.7 Mcm at full supply level.  It con-
sequently does not fill something like one year in four. There is an exist-
ing, but unused, dam further upstream on the same river which the Associated
Sugar Company would like to rehabilitate to provide 0.9 Mcm of additional
storage. An alternative source of water is the Kuramojo river where2a
potential damsite has been identified. The catchment area is 130 km which
would yield approximately 7 Mcm with 90% probability. Boreholes in the area
(Appendix 1) have given yields from 5 to 45 m /ha but the quality of the water
is variable and, as has been stated, the extent of the acquifer is unknown.
10.       Crop water requirements calculated on the basis described in
para. 5 would be about 12,000 m /ha annually at the headgate using an overall
irrigation system efficiency of 76% 2/ (Table 2).   Seven surface water
samples taken in the Ramisi area were analyzed by the National Agricultural
Laboratories, Nairobi, and the water quality was found suitable for irrigation
in all cases.
11.       Soils in the Project area are suitable for irrigation but their
permeability (and the broken topography) makes sprinkler irrigation necessary.
At present, about 480 ha of cane is grown under sprinkler irrigation. Water
from the dam described in para. 9 is pumped in a 7 km concrete lined canal
leading to a booster pump station. The main pumps and motors are worn out
and need replacing and the canal lining is in poor condition and needs con-
siderable repair if excessive water losses are to be avoided.
12.       The booster pumps irrigate 373 ha through buried asbestos mains
fitted with hydrants every 122 m. Portable sprinkler lines, 366 m long, are
1/   Specific runoff:                   2
90% probability - 2 1/sec/km        2
50% probability - 7 to 10 1/sec/km
Source: WHO assessment of Kenya's Water Resources - Paper No. 16.
2/   Transmission losses 5%; sprinkler irrigation efficiency 80%
(i.e. 0.95 x 0.80 = 0.76).



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
coupled to the hydrants and the spriliklers are moved along the portable lines.
Sprinklers have an application rate of 19 mm/hour, are moved every three
hours, and operate for 18 hours a day. Portable lines are moved eaily and
the irrigation cycle is 12 days. Ten applications are given during a
120-day period, i.e. 5,700 m /ha are applied during the irrigation period.
In addition, Ramisi has two sets of Wright Rain portable equipment irri-
gating 106 ha pumping directly out of the main canal. The application
rate is 13 mm/hour. Sprinklers are moved every 4-1/2 hours and operate
for 18 hours a day. The 5ycle is 12 days and 10 applications are given
in 120 days, i.e. 5,850 m /ha irrigation application. The cane in both
cases is receiving less than half its theoretical requirements.
13.       The total amount of water applied to the 480 ha irrigated is
2.75 Mcm, i.e. exactly the existing dam's capacity. The full water needs
of the irrigated cane cannot be met because, although the sprinkler system
installed has the capacity to handle 480 ha of irrigation, the volume of
water which can be stored is inadequate and the catchment area of the dam
is too small for it to fill every year.
C. The Project
Nyanza Sugar Belt
14.       The Project would develop run-of-river pumped irrigation schemes
on the Nyando, the Ainomotua and the Kibos rivers and would modify the exist-
ing irrigation system at Ahero to transform it from rice to cane production.
The new schemes, subject to confirmation of sufficient water supply (para. 4),
would be the following:
(a) 400 ha in the Miwani zone irrigated from the Kibos river.
The scheme would be located to include 80 ha of the Kibos
research station and the large farms immediately adjacent.
The integration of part of the Kibos station into the irri-
gation scheme is discussed in Annex 6.
(b) 920 ha of the Chemelil nucleus estate irrigated from the
Ainomotua. This would include most of the area previously
irrigated.
(c)  670 ha of the Nyando Estate at Muhoroni irrigated from
the Nyando.
Ramisi Zone
15.       The Project could not accept the Associated Sugar Company's pro-
posal to rehabilitate the existing small dam (para. 9). It is likely that
it would only fill in average or wetter than average years and there is no



- 38 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
guarantee that it would improve the present water deficiency. The Project
would reconstruct the main pump station on the Musembeni dam and replace
the existing worn-out pumps and motors, provide for carrying out the repairs
necessary on the main canal lining to prevent excessive water losses so that
370 ha of the presently irrigated area can be irrigated adequately, and
construct a new dam on the Kuramojo river and provide irrigation equipment
for an additional 400 ha.
Project Components
16.       Land Preparation would involve land smoothing to a uniform gradient
before forming beds and furrows. Furrows would be set out to a gradient of
0.2% and would not exceed 250 m in length. 3It is estimated that this work
would in volve moving between 150 and 200 m of earth per ha.
17.       Main canals would be trapezoidal in shape with 1:1 side slopes,
and concrete-lined as required; construction would be in compacted bank where
necessary to give maximum command.
Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni
Main Canal Length (km)                 7.0         5.0         9.0
The canal capacities would be designed on the basis of an irrigation module
of 1.34 1/sec/ha and the canal section would vary from head to tail, reducing
at each turnout to a distributary. The gradient would be 0.05% giving
maximum velocities of 0.7 m/sec. The 7.5 cm concrete lining, necessary to
prevent excessive losses of pumped water, would be mesh reinforced.
18.       Distributaries would branch off the main canal every 250 m.  They
would be excavated in compacted bank to give the necessary command and would
be trapezoidal, with 1:1 side slopes and unlined. The top width of the
canal would be 1.30 m, and the depth 0.50 m.  Canals would be aligned normal
to the natural slope of the ground and set out to a gradient of 0.1%. Where
the ground slope exceeded this gradient the check structures feeding field
ditches would act as drops. Each distributary would command 40 ha and would
discharge a constant leading stream of 55 1/sec, irrigating only during the
day.
Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni       Total
Distributary Length (km)      16.0       37.2          26.8        80.0
19.       Field head ditches, 250 m long at 200 m intervals, would dis-
charge the leading stream from the distributaries to the 5 ha fields.
Each field would be irrigated in turn on an 8-day cycle, i.e. each
field ditch would be in use once in eight days. The canals would be in
compacted bank, 0.50 m above field level and aligned to a gradient of
0.1%. Dimensions would be as for distributaries.



- 39 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni        Total
Field Ditch Length (km)        20.0       46.5          33.5        100.0
20.       Control Structures.  Turnouts from the main canal to distribu-
taries would be reinforced concrete-gated structures. Check structures
from distributaries to field head ditches could be either in reinforced
concrete or precast, with moveable wooden gates.
Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni        Total
Turnouts (No.)                  10         18            20          48
Checks (No.)                    80        180           140         400
21.       2" Diameter plastic siphons discharging 2 1/sec each would be
supplied to irrigate fields from the head ditches.  The 28 siphons to be
used on each ditch would be moved progressively from furrow to furrow.
22.       The 400 ha irrigable area at Miwani would require drainage after
the installation of the irrigation network. The area falls outside the
the Sugar Belt drainage scheme and has not been included. The Project
would provide this area with a drainage layout similar to that described
in Annex 7. The irrigable areas at Chemelil and Muhoroni fall into the
drainage scheme.
23.       Pump stations for the three new schemes in the Nyanza Sugar Belt
would be equipped with electrically driven centrifugal pumps. Power supply is
available close to the proposed pumping sites at Chemelil and Muhoroni, and a
5 km power line would be constructed to the Kibos river pump site. Each
pumphouse would be equipped with three pumps operating under an estimated
total head of 30 m.
Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni
Discharge (1/sec)              185         405          315
Power Requirement (Kw)          85         185          145
A silt trap would be added to the Ahero pump station.  At Ramisi the
pumps and motors in the main pump station require replacement and a new
pump station would be constructed, equipped with three 160 1/sec turbine
pumps driven by 50 hp diesel motors. The pumps and motors in the booster
pump station are still serviceable and do not need replacement. A new pump
station with two pump sets also would be provided for the Kuramojo dam.
24.       A small earthen dam would be constructed between Kuramojo and
Kivumuro on the Kuramojo river. The dam, some 150 m in length and 16.5 m in
height at spillway level, would have a slope of 1:3 upstream and of 1:2V5
downstream and require an approximate volume of earth work of 100,000 m .
Surveys, design and supervision of construction would be provided. Portable



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
overhead irrigation equipment, including pipes, sprinkler heads and por-
table pumping units, would be used to irrigate 400 ha of nucleus estate
land on which cane is presently grown under rainfed conditions or which
would be newly developed under the Project.
25.       Ahero conversion to cane would require demolition of existing
paddy bunds in addition to the land forming described in para. 16.
Further inlet gates and check structures would be required to give the
necessary water control for furrow irrigation. Plastic siphons would
also be provided for field water application.
D. Project Costs
26.       Capital costs, summarized below, are based on recent contract
rates provided by the Ministry of Works and the National Irrigation
Board. The rates have been updated to September 1978. Physical contin-
gencies of 15% are included since cost estimates are based on 1:50,000
surveys because no more detailed mapping was available. Detailed esti-
mates and phasing of construction are shown in Annex 11, Table 3.
Summarized Project Costs
(KShs. '000)
Miwani   Chemelil   Muhoroni   Ahero   Ramisi
Item                      400 ha    930 ha      670 ha    770 ha  770 ha   Total
Site Establishment          150        165         175         55     292       837
Land Preparation            640      1,488       1,072      1,800     -       5,000
Main Canals               1,986      1,512       2,925        --      356    6,779
Distributaries            1,438        998         777        --      --      3,213
Field Head Ditches          555      1,248         971        --      --      2,774
Control Structures          210        450         380        825     --      1,865
Siphons                       2          3           2        --      --          7
Drainage                  1,453        --          --         --      600    2,053
Pump Stations               920      1,045         940        600     900    4,405
Engineering Costs           735        691         724        270   1,202    3,622
Dam and Head Works               --          --               --    7,890    7,890
Irrigation Equipment        --         --          --         --    1,900    1,900
Subtotal              8,089      7,600       7,966      3,550  13,140   40,345
Physical Contin-
gencies                1,213      1,140       1,196        532   1,971    6,052
Subtotal               9,302      8,740      9,162      4,082  15,111   46,397
Price Contingencies       2,646      2,486       2,605      1,445   2,819   12,001
Total                 11.948    11,226       11,767     5.527  17.,930   58_398



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
The cost of groundwater investigations at Ramisi, estimated at KShs. 1.4 mil-
lion (Appendix 1), is included in Annex 11, Table 33.
27.       Operation and maintenance costs at full development (in Year 7)
would amount to the following:
Annual Operation and Maintenance
(KShs. '000)
Item                    Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni    Ahero    Ramisi   Total
Electricity or
Diesel                  160         350         272         100      600      1,482
Pump Operation              13         13          13          13       26         78
Pump Maintenance            9          10           9          10       14         52
Irrigation System
Operation                97         181         202         186      160        826
Irrigation System
Maintenance              34          55          55          36       65        245
Subtotal              313         609        551         345       865     2,683
Physical Contin-
gencies                  47          91          83         52       130        403
Total, Excluding
Price Contingencies       360         700         634         397      995      3,086
E. Organization and Management
28.       There has been no survey or detailed design of new irrigation works
in the Project areas. It is therefore proposed that a technical committee
should be formed within KSA comprising KSA staff, representatives from the
Ministry of Water Development and the National Irrigation Board (NIB) and the
irrigation and drainage engineer to be employed by the National Sugar Research
Institute, Kibos.  The committee would assist KSA in drawing up terms of
reference and in the selection and appointment of consultants for executing
the irrigation works. The consultants would examine the hydrology of the
basins to determine the area irrigable from each river. They would then carry
out all surveys and detailed design works necessary for drawing up contract
documents and calling for tenders. They would also provide site supervision of
the works to be constructed under contract. There are sufficient experienced
local contractors to carry out these works but international competitive
bidding procedures should be used.



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
Cost Recovery
29.       The cost of the works would be borne by the sugar companies which
would directly benefit from the irrigation installation. At Chemelil,
Muhoroni and Ramisi the works are located on the Companies' nucleus estates
and would be owned by them. At Miwani the pump station and main canal
would be owned by the National Irrigation Board which would need to acquire
wayleaves from the private owners on whose land they would be situated.
Allowance for this has been made in the costs. The irrigation works would be
located on the Kibos Research Station and on eight or nine adjacent large
farms and would be owned by them. In this case NIB would recover the costs
from the Ministry of Agriculture for the 80 ha to be irrigated at Kibos 1/
through direct reimbursement and from farmers who would benefit from the
scheme through collection of water charges. At Ahero the scheme is owned by
Government and comes under the responsibility of the National Irrigation
Board. Ahero construction costs would consequently be paid for by Government,
but the costs plus interest would be recovered from farmer beneficiaries in
the form of water charges (Annex 15).
30.       Operation and maintenance in the Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi
zones would be the responsibility, under NIB supervision, of the respective
sugar companies. In the Miwani zone, NIB would operate and maintain the
entire Ahero scheme and the pump station and main canal in the Kibos area.
NIB would arrange to recover all operation and maintenance costs in the form
of a water charge on users (Annex 15).
1/   It is recommended under the Project to reduce the total land area
used for research at Kibos to 40 ha (Annex 6); this area would
be irrigated. The remaining 40 ha of irrigated cane land at Kibos
would be either used by Kibos for commercial cane production together
with the excess rainfed land, or sold.
May 30, 1978



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Groundwater Investigations at Ramisi
1.        The area around Ramisi lies in the coastal plains and receives be-
tween 1,500-1,750 mm rainfall annually. There are no perennial rivers which
could be used for irrigation. It is therefore necessary to investigate the
use of groundwater for irrigation. So far very little is known about the
groundwater conditions in the area. Five boreholes have been drilled within a
radius of 16 km of Ramisi. The details of these boreholes are given below:
Borehole       Total        Water        Static Water         Tested
Number        Depth        Struck          Level             Yield      Quality
(m)         (m)            (m)              (m /ha)
C 2,790         89.9         51.8             9.1              12.7     Not known
C 2,791         30.0          5.0             2.5               4.5     Not known
C 3,020         89.3        62.8, 86.9        9.1              13.7     Saline
C 4,167        177.0        18.0, 126.0    13.0                 1.4     Saline
C 3,011         63.4         48.8, 57.9       9.1              45.0     Good
2.        It is intended to carry out a detailed geophysical survey in order
to establish underground structure and conditions to locate fresh groundwater
zones and also to establish the boundary between fresh and saline water.
The geophysical survey would be general, followed by seismic and magnetic
surveys at selected places. The geoeletric survey has to be carried out on
a grid basis and would take ab2ut two months. It is proposed to carry out
the survey over about 20-24 km in order to select four to six borehole sites
for test drilling. The survey, which Government has scheduled to start in
the fall of 1977, would require at least two senior hydrogeologists or
geologists and their crews (one groundwater inspector, four subordinate staff
and two drivers) and two or three four-wheel drive vehicles. It is estimated
that it would take about two months to complete the field work and about the
same time to interpret the results and select the borehole sites.
3.        The cost of the groundwater investigations would be as follows:



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
Item                      Quantity    Units        Rate       Cost
(KShs) (KShs. '000)
Geophysical Survey
Two Geologists' Salary and
Accommodation                               4       Months    8,000        32
Crew Members (14 Persons)                    2       Months    1,800        50
Two Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles for
Two Months                             12,000       Miles      4.0         48
Six Test Boreholes With Casing              720        m          1,400   1,008
Subtotal                                                        1,138
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                 114
Price Contingencies                                                         184
Total                                                            1,436
The Kenya Government would participate by providing the necessary staff and
services for the geophysical survey and for supervising the drilling program
from its own resources in the Ministry of Water Development in collaboration
with the Ministry of Natural Resources (Mines and Geology Department).
December 20, 1977



-45 -                     ANNEX 4
Table 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Water Availability and Irrigable Areas
Sugar Belt
(a) Minimum Flows Recorded:
Gauging       Flow
River           Station       m3/sec       Date
Nyando -         1 GD 3        2.00        March,'76
Ainomotua        1 GB 3        1.21        Feb.254
Great Oroba     1 HA 1         0.12        Sept.'65
Kibos            1 HA 4        0.27        March,'71
(b) Water Available at Minimum Flow to Irrigate:
2/                                         Net     Gross
Case A -                                           (ha)    (ha)
3/
Nyando         (2.0 - 1.0) x 1,000 t 0.85 -  =  1,176   1,342
Great Oroba           0.12 x 1,000 + 0.85    =    141       161
Kibos                 0.27 x 1,000 i 0.85    =    317       361
Case B 4/
Nyando                2.0  x 1,000 i 0.85    =  2,352   2,684
Ramisi 5/
Musembeni Dam Claimed Capacity                   - 2.72 Vcm
Catchment Area                         - 18 km      2
Specific Runoff with 90% Probability = 3 1/sec/km
Specific Runoff with 50% Probability = 8 1/sec/km2
90% Probable Annual Runoff             = 1.70 Mcm
50% Probable Annual Runoff             = 4.50 Mcm
Water is only available to irrigate 250 ha net and the
existing dam probably does not fill 2 years in 5.
1/ Gauging station 1 GD 3 is below the confluence of the Nyando and
the Ainomotua rivers.
2/ Case A - Ahero present peak requirement in March is 1 m3/sec and
this is here deducted.
3/ Irrigation module March = 0.85 1/sec/ha (Table 2).
4/ Case B - Ahero converted to sugarcane here included.
5/  Source - Ramisi and Kenya Water Resources Survey - WHO 1973.
July 20, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigation
Irrigation Water Requirements
January     February       March        April         Ma          J June       July        August      September   October       November    December
Sugar Belt
Mean Rainfall                       (mm)            59            88          144         207         177          105           90          109            85          84            103           88
Effective Rainfall                  (mm)            47            70          115         166         142           84           72           87            68          67            82           70
Pan A Evaporation i/                (mm)           180           185         201         174          149          135          133          133           147         159           159          183
Crop Water Requirement              (em)           133           115           86                      2            51           61           46            79          92            77          113
Field Water Requirement 3/          (mm)           101            87           65          -           -            39           46           35            60          70             59          86
Headgate Requirement  1/ (mm)                      h80           155          115          -                        69           82           62           107         125            105         153
Irrigation Water                  (m3/ha)        1,800         1,550       1,150           _           _           690          820          620         1,070       1,250         1,050        1,530
Irrigation Module for
12 Hour Irrigation             (1/sec/ha)       1.34         1.28         0.85          -            -          0.53         o.61         0.46          o.83        0.93          0.81         1.14
Pumping Eours per Day 5/                         12.0          11.5         7.6            -           -          4.7          5.4          4.1           7.4         8.3           7.3         10.2
Ramisi
Mean Rainfall                       (mm)            27            19           78         250         201          147           99           80             75          82            78           59
Effective Rainfall                  (mm)            22            15           62        200          160          118           79           64            60          66            62            47
Pan A Evaporation j/                (mm)           212           197         210         19o          145          152          134          160           178         196            184         182
Crop Water Requirement             (mm)            190           182          i48          -            -           34           55           96           118         130            122         135
Field Water Requirement 3/          (mm)           144           138          112          -           -            26           42           73             90         99             93         103
Headgate Requirement |              (mm)           190           182          147          -           -            34           55           96           118         130            122          135
Irrigation Water |                (m3/ha)        1,900         1,820       1,470           -            -          340          550          960         1,180       1,300         1,220        1,350
Irrigation Module for
18 Hour Irrigation             (1/sec/ha)       1.06         1.00         0.73          -            -          0.17         0.27         o.48          0.61        o.65          0.63         o.67
2/ Et. Crop for sugarcane at full canopy is approximately the same as Pan A evaporation.
| Negligible.
T/ Irrigation 3 months at 70%; 7 months full. Drying off 2 months. This is equivalent to 76% full crop water requirement.
J Irrigation system efficiency 56%. Distribution losses 15%; field efficiency 66% with furrow irrigation.
5/ Punping hours total 2,380 per year.
J Irrigation system efficiency 76%. Distribution losses 5 ; field efficiency 80% with sprinkler irrigation.
| The estimated total annual water requirement is 12,090 mi/ha.
July 20, 1977
F!



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Paae 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Drainage
A. Introduction
1.        The Nyanza Sugar Belt Project area includes a fair proportion of the
flatter parts of the Nyando catchment and is bounded to the north by the Nandi
Escarpment, to the east and south by the Londiani and Kericho highlands, and
by the Kavirondo Gulf of the southwest. The relief of the area may be broadly
divided into (a) the Kano plain, (b) the gently sloping areas below the Nandi
Escarpment and in the Nyando and Ainomotua river valleys, and (c) a steeply
sloping broken area in the upper catchment, highly dissected by rivers and
watercourses.
2         The main river in the area is the Nyando, which at its confluence
with its2major tributary, the Ainomotua, has a catchment area of about
2,900 km . Below the confluence the river meanders at a flat gradient through
the Kano plain, losing its course in the Miruka swamp before entering Lake
Victoria. Increasing degradation of the upper catchment, through indiscri-
minate deforestation and bad agricultural practices, is causing serious
erosion. The rivers consequently carry a high silt load which is deposited
in the aggraded lower reaches of the main watercourse and this, coupled with
an increase in Lake level arising from power production requirements at Owen
Falls, has given rise to periodic serious flooding of the lower Kano plain
and the formation of seasonal and perennial swamps. The situation is
aggravated by the location of the West Kano pilot irrigation scheme which
interfers with the natural drainage line through the Miriu swamp.
B. Present Situation
Nyanza Sugar Belt
3.        The hydrology of the Nyando basin has been studied in some
detail. 1/ The following are some of the conclusions affecting drainage:
1/   The Hydrometeorlogical Survey of the Catchments of Lakes Victoria, Kyonga
and Albert, Vol. IV, Studies of Selected River Basins, WMO 1974.



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(a) The average length of non-channel flow from a point
on the drainage divide to a point on the adjacent
stream channel is 800 m. 1/ The longest flow path
from the basin perimeter to the head of a first
order stream channel is 6 km.
(b) Intense continuous spells of rain do not occur
for more than six hours. Eighty percent of rainfall
spells continue for at least two hours; only 3%
exceed six hours. Eight percent of storms,
precipitating between 10 mm and 60 mm, last less than
two hours. The point precipitation for the maximum
24-hour storm observed was 85 mm (intensity 3.5 mm/hr),
but it was also observed that precipitation for 12-hour
and 24-hour storms was constant, i.e. storms do not
last for more than 12 hours. This compares with the
24-hour rainfall of 70 mm, 90% falling within three
hours, taken by Tate and Lyle as the one-in-five year
return period storm.
(c) Runoff from the catchment varies between 3% and 15% of
the rainfall, depending on the condition of catchment
saturation.
Details of the 24-hour storm area/duration/depth relationships, probable
floods and rainfall/runoff coefficients are shown in Table 1.
4.        In the Sugar Belt present drainage problems arise in the flatter
lands in valley bottoms and chiefly, where cane-growing areas extend into
the Kano plains. These problems are accentuated by the poor internal drainage
of the heavier clay soils in the area: Annex 2, Appendix 2 describes these
soils in detail. To some extent the limited capacity of the main road cul-
verts, as well as those traversing the railway line, act as bottlenecks and
cause limited inundation of adjacent fields. The field area affected by
adverse drainage, measured off Maps IBRD 12992 and IBRD 12993, is 15,030 ha 2/
of which 11,760 ha is in large blocks greater than 100 ha. Table 2 details
drainage areas for each factory zone.
Ramisi
5.        In this zone topography and soils (Annex 2) do not give rise to
serious problems of internal drainage and waterlogging. Improvement of
present conditions could be achieved, essentially, by better agronomic
1/   Based on 50 points uniformly spaced around the basin perimeter.
2/   The Sugar Belt drainage area (150 km ) represents 5% of the catchment
area of the Nyando river and hence can have only a limited effect in
flooding in the Kano plains (para. 19).



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
practices and, chiefly, by land forming and land preparation. These factors
are taken into account in Annex 6. Minor drainage has to be provided in
irrigated areas, however (Annex 4).
C. The Project
6.        Design criteria for drainage are based on an estimated 24-hour rain-
fall of 70 mm having an estimated return period of one year in five. Since
few, if any, storms have a duration exceeding 12 hours (Table 1), drains
have been designed with dimensions which would allow 70 mm of rainfall to be
evacuated in 24 hours.  This is equivalent to a dr_.nage module of 8 1/sec/ha.
The assumption is made that fields are saturated at the time of the storm and
that drains flow bank-full.
Project Components
7.        Land preparation would involve land smoothing and the formation
of tertiary drains; 7 m wide cambered beds would be formed for furrow pre-
paration. Furrows and, hence, the cambered beds, would be set out to a
gradient of 0.2% and would not exceed 250 m in length. Land preparation
would be carried out by bulldozer, grader and, if necessary, landplanes after
the end of the five-year cane cycle when the fields would be replowed. At
the same time 500 m long tertiary drains would be formed at 250 m intervals,
perpendicular to the furrow lines. These drains would be vee-drains, 0.65 m
deep and 10.40 m wide (slopes approximately 8:1); set out to a gradient of
0.05%. Their 100 1/sec capacity would be capable of draining 12.5 ha.
8.        Field drains would be constructed at 40 m intervals (every 25 cane
rows) and would discharge into the tertiaries. They would be trapezoidal
in cross-section, 0.60 m top width, 0.50 m bottom width and 0.15 m deep
and would be set out to the same gradient as the furrows. They would be
formed by trencher and the spoil would be spread by hand or by an agri-
cultural tractor mounted with a grader blade. Drain lengths are summarized
in Table 2.
9.        Collector drains, 1,750 m long, would be excavated at 500 m inter-
vals. They would collect the d4schLrge of the tertiaries and would drain
100 -ha blocks. They would be dimensioned to discharge 800 1/sec and be
trapezoidal in section, with side slopes 1.5:1, top width 1.25 m and set out
to a gradient of 0.1%. Excavation would be by hydraulic backhoe ditchers and
the spoil would be spread on the field roads.
10.       Main drains, approximately 3 km long, would drain 400 ha blocks. 1/
They would discharge the outflow from the collectors to natural watercourses.
1/   The area of main drainage blocks could vary according to field layouts.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Their capacity would be 3.2 m /sec and they would be trapezoidal channels with
1.5:1 side slopes, top width 5.40 m, set out to a gradient of 0.05%. They
would be excavated by hydraulic backhoe ditchers and the spoil would be spread
on the roads alongside which they would generally be aligned. Because of
the drains' alignment alongside roads it is not anticipated that there would
be problems of land acquisition.
11.       Improvement works for main watercourses would involve desilting,
cleaning banks and, where necessary, re-aligning. It has been assumed that
the rehabilitation of natural watercourses would involve 1/3 of the earth-
moving required for the construction of main drains. The work would include
all extra excavation needed to enlarge the drains alongside the main road
and railway line to increase their storage capacity and alleviate the water-
logging of the adjacent fields as discussed in para. 4.
12.       Culverts for field roads would consist of two, 8 m long, 800 mm
diameter concrete pipes laid side by side every 500 m under field roads.
In the large blocks about two larger access road culverts would be required
per block, consisting of four, 10 m long, 1,000 mm diameter concrete pipes
laid side by side.
13.       Topographic Mapping.  The Project would provide for large-scale
topographic mapping of the Nyando catchment area and the Kano plains to
allow for future planning of a regional drainage scheme (para. 20 and
Appendix 1).
D. Project Costs
14.       Capital costs, summarized below, allocated to factory zones, are
based on recent contract rates provided by the Ministry of Works and the
National Irrigation Board. The rates have been updated to September 1978.
Detailed estimates of capital and maintenance costs are given in Annex 11,
Table 4.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
Drainage - Capital Cost
(KShs. '000)
Item                                Miwani    Chemilil    Muhoroni    Total
Large Blocks
Collectors                          2,244       1,133          317       3,694
Main Drains                         3,052       1,544          432       5,028
Watercourse Improvement             1,016         512          143       1,671
Culverts                            2,580       1,035          365       4,250
Subtotal             8,892       4,494         1,257      14,643
Small Blocks
Collectors                            640         282          104       1,026
Main Drains                         1,853         817          297       2,967
Watercourse Improvement               289         128           47         464
Culverts                              636         281          103       1,020
Subtotal             3,418        1,508          551       5,477
Engineering, Supervision             3,880       1,903          567       6,350
Vehicles and Equipment /1            1,885       1,885        2,190       5,960
Subtotal            18,075       9,790         4,565     32,430
Physical Contingencies, 10%          1,807         979          457       3,243
Subtotal            19,882      10,769         5,022     35,673
Price Contingencies                  5,728       3,103        1,447      10,278
Total               25,610       13,872        6,469     45,951
1/   For maintenance only.
15.       The cost of topographic mapping, estimated at KShs. 2.25 million,
is included in Annex 11, Table 33. Details are given in Appendix 1.
16.       Maintenance costs at full development (Year 6 onwards), including
an allowance for carrying out land smoothing and formation of tertiaries,
as well as re-excavation of field drains, would amount to the following:



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
Drainage - Maintenance Cost
Total Cost                        Average
Per 5-Year Crop Cycle                       Per Hectare
Miwani  Chemelil   Muhoroni    Total  Per Year    Per Year
Drainage Area (ha)       9,180    4,510       1,340      15,030
_-----------(KShs. '000)-----------------          (KShs.)
Land Smoothing and
Tertiaries            17,442    8,568       2,545      28,555   5,711         380
Field Drains             1,285       632        188       2,105     421          28
Clearing Drains          2,295    1,127         355       3,757     751          50
Subtotal           21,022   10,327       3,068     34,417   6,883          458
Physical Contin-
gencies, 10%           2,102    1,033         307       3,442     688          46
Total, Excluding
Price Contingencies   23,124   11,360        3,375      37,859   7,571         504
E. Organization and Management
17.       There has been no survey or detailed design of drainage works in
the area. It is therefore proposed that the same technical committee formed
within the Kenya Sugar Authority to advise KSA on irrigation implementation,
(Annex 4, para. 28) would be responsible for the implementation of drainage
in the Sugar Belt. The committee would assist KSA in drawing up terms of
reference and in the selection and appointment of consultants for executing
the drainage works. The consultants would examine the hydrology of the basin
and decide on the drainage parameters to be adopted in final designs. They
would carry out all surveys and detailed design works necessary for drawing
up contract documents and calling for tenders. They would also provide site
supervision of the works to be constructed under contract. There are
sufficient experienced local contractors to carry out these works but inter-
national competitive bidding should be used.
18.       The capital costs of works would be borne by Government through the
KSA. Operation and maintenance would be carried out by the sugar companies
using equipment purchased under the Project for maintenance of drainage and
roads. Operation and maintenance would be paid for directly from a levy fund,
administered by KSA, earmarked for the maintenance of sugar roads and drainage
infrastructure (Annex 13, para. 16). The Provincial Chief Engineer, Ministry
of Water Development would be responsible for certifying that drainage main-
tenance had been carried out satisfactorily before any disbursement to the
companies would be made from the fund for drainage maintenance.



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7
F. Environmental Effects
19.       At present, severe flooding occurs over something between 5,000 and
10,000 ha of the Kano plains annually for reasons described in para. 2. This
flooding is relatively little affected by storm runoff from the Sugar Belt
since the topographical features of the main road and the railway line with
their culverts attenuate, to some extent, the runoff from the Nandi escarp-
ment. Below the railway line, in the cane growing area extending into the
Kano plain, the lack of drainage slows down the runoff. Nevertheless, most
of the runoff from the Sugar Belt reaches the Kano plains sooner or later.
20.       The Project does not propose to alter the rail and road culverts
and bridges to allow more rapid evacuation of storm runoff from the Nandi
Escarpment. The proposals to provide a drainage system for 15,030 ha does,
however, mean that runoff from this area will reach the Miruka and Miriu swamps
more rapidly than at present. The results of the design storm (para. 6) on
the Kano plains, for example, would mean that 10.5 Mcm would be discharged
into the plain in between 24 and 48 hours instead of in something like a week
at present.  If it is assumed that outflow into the lake is negligible during
this period the effect would be to raise the water level in the swamps tempo-
rarily by less than 20 cms, which is acceptable.  The definite effects of the
Sugar Belt drainage on flooding could only be determined in the course of a
detailed study of regional drainage and catchment rehabilitation which ought
to be undertaken in the future and for which topographic mapping is provided
under the Project (para. 13).
December 20, 1977



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Drainage
Topographical Mapping of the Kano Plain
Introduction
1.        In order to provide basic information which would allow a regional
drainage and catchment rehabilitation plan to be prepared for the Kano plain
it is proposed to complete large-scale topographical mapping of the area.
This would involve some photogrammetric work on existing, but incomplete,
map sheets, where the planimetric detail, but not the relief, has been
carried out, in addition to some new mapping.
Existing Photography and Mapping
2.        Air photo cover, carried out since 1971, is available at a scale
of 1:12,500, which would be a satisfactory base for the additional mapping
required. About 175 km of the Miwani area, between the railway line and
the Nandi escarpment, has been planimetrically mapped to a scale of 1:2,500,
but no contouring or sp2t heights have been plotted. There is also 1:2,500
mapping of about 300 km of the Chemelil and Muhoroni zones.
Proposal
3.        The area to be mapped would cover about 1,500 km , including the
Kano plain between Lake Victoria and Koru in a West-East direction, and
between the Nandi escarpment and the Kericho highlands in a North-South
direction. Map scale should be 1:5,000. Where slopes are flatter than 5%,
the vertical interval should be 2 m. On steeper slopes the contour interval
should be ; m. Spot heights, correct to 20 cm, at a density of one point to
every 4 cm of plan, should be plotted where slopes are flatter than 2%.
Existing 1:2,500 mapping would have to be redrawn to 1:5,000 scale, including
spot heights and contours.
Cost Estimate
4.        Cost estimates are based on rates quoted by Kenya Survey for the
mapping operations described.



- 55-
ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Page 2
Item                                Quantity           Rate           Cost
KShs./km       KShs. '000
Ground Control                         175 km2        1,000            175
Contouring and Redrawing                      2
Existing Maps                         475 km           500           238
1:5,000 Photogrammetric Mapping    1,025 km2          1,500         1,537
Subtotal                                                   1,950
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                           195
Price Contingencies, 5%                                               105
Total                                                     2,250
December 20, 1977



ANNEX 5
- 56-                      Table I
KENYA
SUGA9 REHABILITATION PROJECT
Drainage
Climate Data Relating to Drainage Design Parameters
A.        Area/Duration/Depth Relationship for Max 24 hour Storm in mm.
Duration                         Area (km2)
(hours)         10     100      500    1,000   2,000   3,000
3          81.0    73.7    64.8    58.3    48.6    41.3
6          85.5    77.8    68.4    61.6    51.3    43.3
12          90.0    81.9    72.0    64.8    54.0    45.9
24          90.0    81.9    72.0    64.8    54.0    45.9
B.        Probable Floods on the Nyando River at Station I GD I.
Return                            Predicted Flood
Period     Probability       Giabal    Log-p'arson III   Difference
(Years)        M             (m /se.)      (m3/sec)           (%)
2          50              4.2            3.7             -11
5          20              7.7            7.1             - 8
10          10              9.9            9.6             - 3
25           4             12.7           13.1             + 3
50           2             14.8           15.9             + 7
C.        Runoff Coefficients as % of Rainfall (Observed Values)
Year                      1969            1970            1971
January,                    4               3               5
February                    3               9                3
March                       6               5                9
April                       8              10              10
May                         5              11                9
June                        5              13               8
July                        4              10              12
-August                      6              12              -  a/
September                   7              15
October                     6              14              --
November                    5               8              --
becember                   10               7
Average                     6              10              --
D.        Accepted Design Flood - As Proposed by Tate and Lyle;
70 mm but evacuated in 24 hours, equivalent to 8 1/sec/ha.
a/! Incomplete.
July 20, 1977



- 57 -                     ANNEX 5
Table 2
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Drainage
Factory Zone Drainage Areas and Quantities
Unit     Miwani  1   Chemelil    Muhoroni   Total
A. Drainage Areas
Large Blocks                      ha       7,140          3,610        1,010  11,760
(larger than 100 ha)
Small Blocks                     ha        2,040            900         -330   3,270
(less than 100 ha)                                                       -
Total                         ha        9,180          4,510        1,340  15,030
B. Drainage Quantities
Land Smoothing and Tertiaries   ha         9,180          4,510        1,340  15,030
Field Drains                     km        1,836            902          268   3,006
Collectors                       km          161              79          23      263
Main Drains                       km         159              78          23      262
Watercourse Improvement          km           53              26           8       87
Small Culverts                   No.         388            190           56      634
Large Culverts                   No.          45              23            7      75
1/ Excluding drainage associated specifically with the proposed
irrigation (Annex  !.
July 20, 1977



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Sugarcane Production
A. The Nyanza Sugar Belt
Introduction
1.        The Nyanza Sugar Belt comprises three production zones each centered
on a factory, namely Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni. In 1976, the total area
under cane amounted to some 31,000 ha from which just over one million tons
of cane were reaped producing nearly 100,000 t of sugar. Production figures
for the last 10 years show that, although cane and sugar production appear to
have fluctuated fairly considerably in each factory zone, in fact, the total
production for the Sugar Belt, 1972 excepted, has been fairly constant. This
can be attributed largely to a zoning system which does not function properly
(Annex 2). A definite crushing period would be strictly adhered to by all
factories in order to stop movement of cane from one zone to another (Annex 9).
2.        The average production for the Sugar Belt was 33 t of cane per hec-
tare per year (tchy). Extraction, or sugar made as percent of cane, averaged
9.6 and that reflects the poor quality of the cane milled as well as factory
performance. Although the marginal conditions of soil (large acreage of heavy,
poorly-drained soils) and climate (low annual rainfall and low temperatures
due to altitude) affect yields in both cane and sugar, the low yields can be
attributed in a large measure to poor management of the sugarcane plantations.
The standards of husbandry vary considerably and so do the yields. Some good
crops of plant cane yield 100-125 t/ha, while neglected fields yield less than
20 t. It is evident that efficient management and good husbandry involving
particularly weed and disease control, adequate fertilization and drainage
would lead to the production of good crops of cane within the potential limit-
ation of the area. In summary, the main field problems of the Sugar Belt are
the marginal nature of the area, the poor standards of crop husbandry, absence
of proper timing of cane harvest, and lack of definite guidelines for cane
cultivation due to inadequate research and experimentation.
3.        The present situation in the three factory zones of the Sugar Belt
is as follows:
(a) The Miwani Zone has approximately 9,300 ha under cane dis-
tributed as follows: 3,200 ha in the nucleus estate,
3,800 ha under large-scale farms and 2,300 ha belonging



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
to the cooperative societies under SBCU. Cane production
amounted, in 1976, to 282,000 t, giving a yield of 30 tchy
over the 9,300 ha of cane land; the yield on the nucleus
estate averaged 35 tchy and in the outgrowers area 28 tchy.
Sugar made as percent of cane stood at 8.6, giving a sugar
production of 25,000 t, well below the rated factory capacity.
(b) The Chemelil Zone covers an area of some 12,500 ha under
cane 3,000 ha of which fall in the nucleus estate and
9,500 ha in the outgrowers area subdivided between coopera-
tive farmers (3,200 ha) and large and small independent
farmers (6,300 ha). Cane production amounted, in 1976, to
456,000 t giving a yield of 36.5 tchy over the 12,500 ha
of cane land; the yield on the nucleus estate averaged
45 tchy and in the outgrowers area 34 tchy. Sugar made as
percent of cane was 10.1, giving a sugar production of
46,000 t, again below the rated capacity of the factory.
(c) The Muhoroni Zone covers an area of some 9,100 ha under cane
distributed as follows: 1,800 ha in the formerly privately-
owned Nyando Estate, 700 ha under large-scale farms, 5,700 ha
in the Sugar Settlement Scheme and 900 ha under small-scale
cooperative farms. Cane production amounted, in 1976, to
274,000 t, giving a yield of 30 tchy over the 9,100 ha of cane
land; the yield on Nyando estate averaged 28 tchy and in the
outgrowers area 31 tchy. Sugar made as percent of cane was
9.5 giving a sugar production of 26,000 t, also well below
the rated factory capacity.
Economic Cropping Period
4.        Taking into account the yields obtained under good management,
a five-year crop cycle made up of one plant cane and two ratoons is
proposed. The average growth curve or plant, first and second ratoon
canes between 15 and 23 months old, obtained for Chemelil, shows that
above 19 months no profitable cane weight increase is obtained. Thus,
as plant cane takes more time to become established than ratoon cane, the
cycle to be adopted for cane should be: plant, 22 months; first ratoon,
18 months; and second ratoon, 18 months. A cycle, with required leeway,
would occupy 60 months; the average proportion harvested annually would be
60%. The monthly mean values of Pol % cane, corrected for 16% fiber, for
the last three years obtained for Miwani, which can be taken as valid for
the whole Sugar Belt, show that there is almost no variation in succrose
% cane right through the year the more so that the cane does not flower.
It follows that cane can be harvested over the 12 months. However, it is
not recommended to harvest the cane during the two very wet months of the
year, April and May, due to the damage caused to both soil and cane stools
by infield operations. It is not recommended to harvest cane between mid
March and mid June even in years when cane yields are high, the harvesting
period should therefore be limited to about 235 working days and in an
average year would be about 210 days.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
Cane Varieties
5.        The variety most extensively grown at present in the Sugar Belt
is C0421 with, as a good second, C0331, and C0617 rapidly gaining favor.
Although C0331 withstands well the adverse conditions encountered when
grown in the heavy, poorly drained soils its succrose content is low. C0421,
on the other hand, has a good succrose content but is adapted to the better
soils of the area. C0617 withstands well waterlogged conditions and is now
being used as a replacement for C0421 and, preferably, to C0331 under such
conditions. Another variety which seems to be adapted to the heavier soils
is N51/211. The advantage it has over C0617, which has a high fiber content,
is that cutters like the variety because it is easy to harvest. One drawback
is the big size of the eyes which are liable to damage, specially after heat
treatment. Another good variety is NC0293; however, being a straight cane
it will have to be planted more closely to overcome weed problems. In the
better drained soils it seems that, at the moment, there is no substitute
for C0421. On irrigated land the leading varieties are NC0293 and B41227.
6.        Several varieties are under test.  The promising varieties seem
to be C0775, B35151 and C0622 which is the product of a cross between C0421
and C0331. Considering the marginal conditions prevailing in the Sugar Belt,
in the long run, the answer to increased production will likely come from
hybrid varieties actually bred and selected in the country.
Cane Field Preparation
7.        The new area to be brought under cane cultivation, which would be
in outgrowers areas, would consist of land either lying fallow or supporting
light vegetation. Land clearing would consist mainly of the operation norm-
ally conducted to destroy cane stubble when replanting cane land. It is
estimated that only 10% of the area would require light bush clearing. After
land clearing, preparaton of all land for cane growing on nucleus estates
and in smallholder areas would be conducted by the Agricultural Department of
the factory in each zone. Large farmers would generally prepare their own
land, but some would be expected to avail themselves of services provided
by the factories. Land preparation includes ripping, ploughing, harrowing
and furrowing. In order to achieve the best conditions for cane growth,
these operations would be done mechanically in both the nucleus estates and
outgrower areas. As it would not only be very difficult to conduct land
preparation during the wet months of April and May but also result in an
inferior tillage, the operation would be conducted over 10 months of the
year only. Deep ploughing is not recommended as the heavy, poorly-drained
soils are earmarked for drainage and adequate ripping to 65 cm followed by
ploughing with the heavy plough would lead to a reasonable tilth for root
development.
8.        In the heavier soils, cross-ripping and ploughing would be done
with the use of crawler tractors, whereas in the lighter soils, four-wheel
drive tractors would be used. Crawler tractors might have to be used for



- 61 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
ripping, depending upon conditions in the lighter soils. Ploughing would be
done with a heavy Rome plough in the heavier soils and with disc ploughs in
the lighter. Harrowing and furrowing would be performed by wheel tractors
in both types of soil using a Rome harrow and ridger, respectively. As all
the heavy soils are to be drained, planing, using a wheel tractor and land
planer, is necessary between harrowing and furrowing. A spacing of 150 cm
is recommended except in nurseries, where, the cane being harvested at an
earlier age, it would be reduced to 120 cm. With improved field husbandry,
the addition of a third ratoon could prove economic and would be experimented
with.
Cultural Practices
9.        Two major sugarcane diseases in the Sugar Belt being ratoon stunting
and smut (para 14), both of which can be controlled by hot-water treatment of
cuttings, all material would have to come from nurseries. However, as the
hot-water treatment of cuttings may impair germination of the treated setts,
nurseries would be established in two steps. A-nurseries would be planted
with direct heat-treated cuttings and would cover an area representing 1/100th
of the total area to be put under plant cane. The seeding rate would be 10
t/ha to allow for reduced germination and provide planting material for
gapping. The cuttings, obtained from 12-month old cane, would be prepared
with knives, sterilized by scrubbing regularly in a lysol solution or other
appropriate disinfectant, and used to plant directly B-nurseries which should
cover an area equivalent to 1/10th of the total area to be put under plant
cane. The cuttings would be dipped in a fungicide solution (0.5 solution
of Aretan-3), a procedure which should be standard practice for all plantings,
whether nurseries or regular plantations, and planted at the usual rate of
7 t/ha. The cuttings needed for regular plantations would be obtained from
12-month old cane. To the extent possible, the A-nursery would be located
where irrigation facilities are available. The B-nurseries would be estab-
lished throughout the nucleus estate and outgrowers area in order to minimize
the transport cost of the seed cane. 1/ Nurseries would be used once, the
ratoons being included as part of the plantations. Based on an average
planted area of 2,700 ha/year in each of the factory zones, the B-nurseries
would cover 270 ha and the A-nurseries 30 ha. A small treatment plant treat-
ing one ton of cane at a time would be required. Both A- and B-nurseries
would be regularly inspected and all cases of smut rogued before spore dis-
posal has started. Apart from the very dry months of January and February,
planting could be conducted intermittently during the other ten months of
the year taking advantage of the rains. However, with the unpredictable
occurrence of the rains during that period, effective planting time would
not exceed eight months.
10.       Weeds are a major contributing factor to crop reduction in the
Sugar Belt and weeding would be conducted frequently and regularly until
the canopy closes. The most troublesome weeds are conch grass (Digitaria
1/   To simplify the cost analysis, all nurseries have been assumed to be
located in the nucleus estates (Annex 14); this is not a practical
recommendation, however.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
scalarum), sedges such as Cyperus distans, and the partial root parasite
Strega hermonthica. The ideal solution would be a combination of herbicide
application, hand-weeding and inter-row cultivation which has yet to be worked
out. Experiments would be conducted with such herbicides as Asulox 40 and
TCA applied at very late post-emergence, and such combinations as TCA and
Asulox 40, TCA and Actril DS and Asulox 40 and Actril DS. For the moment,
weeds would be controlled by means of two inter-row cultivations with wheel
tractors, mounted with spring tines and ridges for hilling, in cane not more
than one meter high, followed by 3-4 hand weedings. High clearance may be
needed in tall cane.
11.       A proper fertilizer schedule for cane of the Sugar Belt has yet to
be prepared, and this can only be done on the basis of reliable data on soil
analysis and foliar diagnosis (para 42). In the interim, the recommendations
made are based on a broad grouping of soils into the heavier and the lighter
soils, and on average soil levels of phosphorus and potassium; the latter
element does not appear to be deficient. The following tentative average
applications are recommended:
Sulphate of Ammonia            Triple Superphosphate
--------------------- (kg/ha) ---------------
Heavier     Lighter
Rainfed Cane        Soils        Soils             All Soils
Plant Crop            250          300                       250
1st Ratoon            250          300
2nd Ratoon            250          300
Irrigated Cane      Sulphate of Ammonia            Triple Superphosphate
(All Soils)       ---------_---------- (kg/ha) ---------------------
Plant Crop            500                                  250
1st and Higher
Ratoons            500
Triple superphosphate would be applied at planting time only and sulphate of
ammonia 3-4 months after planting or harvest depending upon rain. Scums, as
available would be applied before ploughing.
12.       The seed cane would be planted in furrows.  In order to improve
drainage and aeration and economic tillering, a hilling operation would be
conducted by means of which the cane stool is made to grow on a ridge. Hill-
ing also helps to control weeds (para 10). The operation would take place
early in the life of the ratoon in order to avoid damage to the superficial
roots extending in the inter-row.



- 63 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6
13.       All canes would be burned before harvest (Annex 7).  This operation
would facilitate the work of the cane cutters and mechanical loaders. The
harvesting of green cane would be conducted only where a real fire hazard
exists. Sub-soiling with a ripper or a disc-bedder, which would be conducted
three weeks after harvest would open up the soil and sever the old cane root
system at a time when the new tillers are establishing their own roots which
will rapidly grow in the newly turned-up soil. Whiere the cane is harvested
green, trash would be lined in alternate interrows and subsoiling conducted
in the trash-free inter-rows.
Diseases and Pest Control
14.       The sugar industry of Western Kenya is Ln a very fortunate position
in that several of the major diseases affecting cane have never been re-
corded in the area and insect damage is at an insignificant level. The major
diseases present are smut, ratoon stunting, mosaic, leaf scald and pineapple
disease.
15.       Smut disease is caused by a fungus Ustilago scitaminea.  The varie-
ties presently grown are fairly tolerant to the disease. Control should be
in the testing and release of varieties with an acceptable level of resistance,
and roguing of infested stools in the field. The hot-water treatment of cut-
tings controls seed infection but the plants can become re-infected in nur-
series, hence the necessity of detection and removal of all infected stools
at an early stage before the whips have had time to shed their spores.
Roguings must be conducted in both A- and B-nurseries. Eventually, it would
also be desirable to rogue plant cane.
16.       Ratoon stunting disease is a misnomer in that it does not affect
ratoons only; infected cuttings can give rise to diseased, stunted stools in
plant cane.  Infected cuttings can be cured by treatment in hot water at 50C
for two hours, measured from the time of temperature equilibrium in the bath;
transmission can be checked through knife sterilization (Phenol, Lysol,
Zephirol, Iosan). However, as hot-water treatment of cuttings impairs their
germination, this being particularly true with certain varieties, cuttings
would not be heat-treated for direct plantations but only for the establish-
ment of nurseries in two stages (para 9). The C0421 variety is susceptible
while C0331 appears tolerant.
17.       Mosaic is caused by a virus and can seriously reduce yields in
susceptible varieties. The disease can be controlled by planting resistant
varieties only. Leaf scale is caused by the bacterium Xanthomonas albilineans.
Control is effective through the use of resistant varieties only. Pineapple
disease is caused by the fungus Ceratostomella paradoxa, and can be easily
controlled by dipping the cuttings before planting in a solution of an
organomercurial fungicide such as aretan (9.5% solution of Aretan-3). The
minor diseases present are the various leaf spots (brown, ring and eye),



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7
Pokkal-boeing and red stripe. Insects are at present causing no real
threat to cane in the Sugar Belt. Those present which directly feed on
the cane are both top and stalk borers and army worms, the control of
which is not considered necessary at the moment; the cosmopolitan pink
mealy bug; Perkinsiella leaf hopper, which is a vector of Fiji disease;
and Rophalosiphon aphid, which transmits mosaic.
Areas to be Developed
18.       The cane areas to be developed would be as follows:
Miwani  Chemelil   Muhoroni   Total
- ------------- (ha) ---------
Improvement of Existing and
Reclamation of Fallow Cane Areas         10,330   11,800       8,400    30,530
New Development                             3,070    1,000       5,100      9,170
Total                           13_400   12,800       13,500    39,700
Details concerning the distribution of these areas by nucleus estates, large-
scale farms, cooperative societies, settlement farms and other outgrowers as
well as areas to be irrigated and provided with improved drainage are pre-
sented in Table 1.
Cane Yields and Production
19.       The expected yields and production of sugarcane with the new zoning
(Annex 2), including newly-developed areas, have been estimated taking into
account the location of the soils and assuming that all the heavy, poorly
drained soils would be provided with adequate drainage and that the full
input package (e.g. land preparation, fertilization, weeding, etc.) would be
applied. The maximum estimated yield increase with drainage, taking into
account marginal land, was based on actual observations as follows:
Drainage           Other Inputs              Yield
(Fertilizer, Weeding, etc.)
Without               Low                      25
Without               High                     32
With                  High                     40



- 65 -
ANN Ex 6
Page 8
20.       The estimate of yield increases due to irrigation has been derived
from observations at the Ahero Irrigation Scheme. As there would be no check
to growth under irrigation, the cane could be harvested at an early age.
This would allow four crops to be taken during the five-year cycle instead
of three, as follows:
Yield          Growing Period
(tons/ha)           (Months)
Plant Crop             120                  16
1st Ratoon             100                 14
2nd Ratoon              80                 14
3rd Ratoon              75                 14
Total            375                 58 (60 with
contingency)
Average Per Year 75
As the expected average yield without irrigation would be in the range of
39-49 tchy, the average yield increase due to irrigation would amount to
26-36 tchy. Detailed yield assumptions, by cutting, factory zone and
growing area are presented in Table 2.
21.       The production of sugarcane in the Sugar Belt would reach full
development in Year 11 and stabilize around 569,000 t/year at Miwani,
590,000 t/year at Chemelil, and 620,000 t/year at Muhoroni. Detailed
phasing of production is shown in Tables 3-5. At an assumed extraction
rate of 10.0%, the annual production of sugar would reach 56,900 t at
Miwani, 59,000 t at Chemelil, and 62,000 t at Muhoroni.
Operations and Machinery Implements Requirements
22.       Land to be planted which has been under light bush fallow will
require clearing and ripping to eliminate the roots before cultivation.
These operations would comprise:
(a) Ploughing using a crawler tractor (120-160 hp) and
a Rome plough. Capacity would be 0.52 ha/hr.
(b) Ripping with a crawler tractor (160-180 hp) equipped
with ripper tines to penetrate to about 65 cm. Capacity
would be 0.48 ha/hr.
In abandoned cane fields a deridging operation will be necessary to split
old ridges, an operation which will also uproot the old cane stools. This
would use similar equipment to (a) above. On the lighter soils where compac-
tion has become excessive a ripping operation similar to (b) above would be



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 9
appropriate but would not be effective on the heavy soils. Preparation of
fields for planting would then comprise:
(a) Ploughing would be conducted in the heavier soils with
a crawler tractor (160-180 hp) with a heavy Rome plough
(Rome TRCH 12/56). The capacity per tractor is 0.56 ha/
hour. On the lighter soils, a four-wheel drive tractor
(90-120 hp) with disc plough would be used; the capacity
is 0.36 ha/hour.
(b) One harrowing would be conducted crossways to the direc-
tion of ploughing using in both types of soil a four-
wheel drive tractor (90-120 hp) and a Rome harrow; the
capacity is 0.48 ha/hour.
(c) Planing would be conducted in all land to be drained as
provided in Annex 5.
(d) Furrowing would be the last mechanical field operation,
apart from digging in-field drains (Annex 5), to be
conducted before planting. In both types of soils a
four-wheel drive tractor (65-90 hp) with ridging bodies
would be used; the capacity is 0.64 ha/hour. In the
heavier soils, a four-wheel tractor (90-120 hp) may
have to be used depending on the state of the soil.
23.       Land preparation would be done nine months per year; the two very
wet months would be excluded and time allowed for the land to dry up. With
24 actual working days per month and 12 working hours per day (two shifts
of six hours each), 2,592 hours of land preparation time would be available
per year.
24.       Maintenance of cane fields after planting would consist of weeding,
fertilizing and hilling. The outgrowers who do not possess the necessary
equipment for mechanized operation would carry out weeding and fertilizing
practices themselves manually, and hilling would be done with a hoe at the
same time as weeding. The work would be conducted under the supervision
of the Agricultural Department of the companies. At the nucleus estate and
in properly equipped (large) farms, weeding and hilling would be a combina-
tion of manual and mechanical operations. Herbicide application would be
used when results of experimental work are available (para 42). A wheel
tractor, equipped with spring tines for weeding and ridgers for hilling
would be used in cane not higher than one meter (5 to 6 months old). This
operation could be conducted twice, followed by two to three manual weedings,
depending upon weed incidence, until the cane canopy closes in. In ratoons,
subsoiling, to open up the soil and break up the old roots (para 13) would be
conducted three weeks after harvest followed by three to four weedings. For



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10
weeding and ridging a four-wheel drive tractor (65-.90 hp), fitted with spring
tines for weeding and ridgers for hilling, would be used; the capacity is
0.64 ha/hour. For subsoiling, a four-wheel drive tractor (90-120 hp), fitted
with ripper or disc bedder, would be used; the capacity is 0.40 ha/hour.
25.       Replanting of cane fields after the last harvest would follow the
same sequence of operations as those used for the initial planting (paras
7-12). However, the cane stubbles left in the soi:L would have to be uprooted,
chopped and incorporated into the soil, and the ridges would have to be
destroyed. For that purpose, a crawler tractor (120-160 hp), fitted with
a Rome plough (TRW 24/28), would be used; the capacity is 0.52 ha/hour.
Labor Requirements
26.       Manual labor would be required for planting, fertilizer application,
gapping and weeding, when this is not done mechanically. In the outgrowers
area, the farmers would carry out these activities in their own plots. The
various practices would require the following labor:
Mandays Required per Hectare
In 3 Crops
(5 Years Cycle)
Planting            20                          20
Fertilizing          2                           8
Gapping              5                           5
Weeding             15 (per weeding)           270 (average of 6 weed-
ings per crop)
Total                                     303
Planting, gapping and fertilizing of the plant crop would be conducted from
March to October, taking advantage of the rains. In the higher altitude
belt, with more favorable rainfall, less restriction would apply. At 24
working days per month and seven effective months out of eight, the total
number of days available for these practices is 168. Fertilizing in the
ratoon crops would be done during 10 months, or 240 days, and weeding during
the entire year or 288 days. An outgrowers labor budget per hectare is
shown in Table 6.



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 11
B. Ramisi
Introduction
27.       The ecological conditions under which cane is grown on the coast
are very different from those prevailing in the Nyanza Sugar Belt. The cli-
mate is tropical, and the soils are predominantly sandy loams. Rainfall is
less than in Nyanza and the temperature almost constant throughout the year.
Although, on the better soils, fair stands of cane were observed, yields are
generally low as some of the cane is being grown on sandy soils better suited
to coconuts or cashews. There is, however, no lack of land suitable for cane
growing in the vicinity of the factory. The standard of husbandry is lQw and
there is urgent need to embark on a well-planned experimentation program in
the area.
28.       The Ramisi zone has approximately 6,000 ha under cane out of
which about 500 ha of nucleus estate land (at Makongeri) is on very sandy
soils, producing negligible yields. The area under actual cane production
(1977) is, therefore, some 5,500 ha, 4,700 ha in the nucleus estate, 480 ha
under large farms and 320 ha belonging to smallholders. Unlike the Sugar
Belt, annual cane production at Ramisi is rather unstable. Over the five-
year period 1972-76, annual production averaged 126,500 t and ranged from
171,600 t in 1973 to 84,100 t in 1976. The five-year average yield was
23 tchy.
Economic Cropping Period
29.       Conditions being tropical on the coast, a standard cropping cycle
of a plant cane of 14 months and two ratoons of 12 months each would be
adopted. The complete cycle, with required leeway would occupy 41-42 months;
the area harvested annually would average 86-88% of total area under cane.
Harvesting could be conducted right through the year; however, due to heavy
rains, the two wet months of April and May would be excluded, thus leading
to a harvesting/operating period of 260 working days.
Cane Varieties
30.       Of the leading varieties C0421 and C0331, the latter withstands
drought conditions better. It appears that C01007 could be a good substitute
for C0331 under these adverse conditions, and C0997 is performing well in
the better soils. Promising new varieties include Q47, Q68, B54152, DB229/57
and Mex 57-197.
Cane Field Preparation
31.       The new area to be brought under cane (para 37) is made up mainly
of land lying fallow supporting light vegetation. It is estimated that
about 25% of the new area would have to be deforested and the remaining



ANNEX 6
Page 12
75% would require only light bush clearing. After land clearing, preparation
of all land for cane growing would be conducted by the Agricultural Depart-
ment of the Factory. This includes ripping followed by ploughing, harrowing
and furrowing. These operations would be done mechanically in both nucleus
estate and outgrower areas over a period of 10 months, excluding April and
May. Outgrowers would be expected to perform the operations of planting,
gapping, fertilizing and weeding.
Cultural Practices
32.       All planting material would receive the hot-water treatment and
would be planted in A-nurseries to supply B-nurseries before being taken.for
regular plantations. The same replanting procedures as outlined for the
Sugar Belt, including smut roguing, would be followed (para 9). Based on an
average plant area of 2,865 ha per year, the B-nurseries would cover 300 ha
and the A-nurseries 40 ha.
33.       Weedings would be conducted frequently and regularly until the
canopy closes in. The use of weedicides would be investigated in the area,
particularly in young cane. Two inter-row cultivations followed by 3-4
manual weedings would be conducted.
34.       A proper fertilizer schedule has yet to be worked out.  The recom-
mendations made are, therefore, tentative and based on average soil levels
of phosphorous and potassium. The latter element appears to be deficient
and it may be necessary to apply muriate of potash. However, considering
the present cost of fertilizers, such application would be investigated
fully in fertilizer trials. Calcium also appears to be deficient. The
initial rates of fertilizer application would be as follows:
Rainfed Cane                CAN        Triple Superphosphate
(kg/ha)              (kg/ha)
Plant Crop                  350                  250
1st Ratoon                 350
2nd Ratoon                  350
Irrigated Cane
Plant Crop                  500                  250
1st and Higher Ratoons    500
Triple superphosphate would be applied at planting only. Calcium ammonium
nitrate would be given in two applications, six to eight weeks after planting
or ratooning and again five to six months later, as the fertilizer is liable
to be leached; split rates of 150 kg and 200 kg for rainfed cane and 200 kg
and 300 kg for irrigated cane are recommended. Scums would be applied before
ploughing as available.



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 13
35.       The present practice of maintaining a trash blanket which precludes
burning of the trash before harvesting is questionable. It is unlikely to
significantly reduce the rate of moisture loss from the soil surface though
it would maintain a lower temperature in the upper few centimeters of the soil
profile. However, considering the labor shortage for cane cutting, burning
would have been desirable as it facilitates the task for cutters, thus doubling
their output, helps the mechanical loading and also provides cleaner cane for
the factory. Experiments would be conducted on the effects of burning on
yields, with particular reference to ratoon regrowth, to ascertain whether
burning could be permitted in the future. The trash left after cutting in the
absence of burning would be raked in one inter-row out of two so that ripping,
especially after mechanical loaders and infield transport have compacted the
soil, of alternate inter-rows can be conducted in ratoons.
Diseases and Pest Control
36.       The same cane diseases and pests are encountered in all the sugar
zones of Kenya. The same control measures as those recommended for the Sugar
Belt also would be adopted in the Ramisi zone (para 14). Insect problems are
somewhat more important than in Western Kenya in that the sugarcane scale,
Aulacaspis tegalensis is present and may on occasion cause damage. At present,
no economical method of control is known. Beetle borers are also present
whose grubs feed on the underground part of the cane; control is possible
through Aldrin sprays.
Cane Area, Yields and Production
37.       Approximately 5,500 ha of existing cane would be improved, taking
into account that 500 ha of unsuitable nucleus estate land would be excluded,
and 4,140 ha of new cane would be established. Existing irrigation on
370 ha would be improved and new irrigation provided for an additional 400 ha
(Annex 4). Nearly two-thirds of new cane land would be located in smallholder
areas (Table 1).
38.       The expected yield estimates with improved husbandry, based on
available yield data and observations of growing cane in the field, are
40 tchy for the nucleus estate and 32-39 tchy for outgrowers under rainfed
conditions (Table 2). Yield levels of 40 tchy have been achieved in a
number of locations with relative ease, and some fields have been yielding
as much as 70 tchy. As the improvements to the irrigation infrastructure
would be relatively minor, the expected effect on yields would consist of
a modest increase from 50 tchy at present to 70 tchy; with the limited water
available, supplementary irrigation is possible only during the 3-4 driest
months.
39.       Cane production at Ramisi would reach full development in Year 11
and stabilize around 400,000 t per year. At an assumed extraction rate of
9.0%, the annual production of sugar would reach 36,000 t.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 14
Operations and Machinery Implements Requirements
40.       Development of new land would be mainly under light vegetation
(75%) and would need light bush clearing only. The 25% remaining would
have to be deforested by chain felling and piling. As the movement of
mechanical loaders and infield transport would lead to soil compaction
it is proposed to include ripping, an operation not conducted at present,
in land preparation.
(a) Chain felling would be done with the use of two crawler
tractors and one four-wheel drive tractor (120-160 hp)
with bulldozer blade, two for pulling the chain and one
for assisting in uprooting heavy trees. The capacity
of a unit of three tractors which would vary according
to the standing vegetation is on average estimated at
0.3 ha per hour.
(b) Piling would follow chain felling. This would be done by
crawler tractors or four-wheel drive tractors (120-160 hp)
equipped with rake blade. The average capacity is 0.3 ha
per hour.
(c) The other operations such as ripping (cross), ploughing,
harrowing and furrowing would be conducted as for the
lighter soils of the Sugar Belt (para 22).
Land preparation would be conducted during nine months per year, excluding
the two wet months and additional time to allow the land to dry up and
allowing for the occurance of unpredictable hazards.
Labor Requirements
41.       Manual labor would be required for planting, fertilizer application,
gapping and weeding, when this is not done mechanically. In the outgrowers
area, the farmers would carry out these activities in their own plots. The
various practices would require labor as detailed for the Sugar Belt (para 26).
Additional labor would be required for trash lining at the rate of 10 mandays
per ha (Table 6). Planting, gapping and fertilizing of the plant crop would
be conducted from March to November, taking advantage of the rains. Fertil-
izing in the ratoon crop would be done during 10 months.
C. Agriculture Research
42.       Company Research.  Although the main responsibility for research
work is that of the National Sugar Research Institute at Kibos, it is
essential that close cooperation exists between the Institute and the
sugar companies in order that the experimental work conducted by the latter



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 15
can be coordinated and integrated into a well-balanced research program.
Agricultural research for sugarcane at the company level in all sugar
zones would be conducted by a well-qualified company Agronomist, assisted
by an Assistant Agronomist. The work of the Agronomist and his staff would
include:
(a)  Establishing experimental fields, and collecting and
interpreting the data. Priority would be given to
variety and fertilizer trials.
(b)  Assessing the nutrient status of cane fields through
soil analyses.
(c)  Collecting leaf samples for analysis at the National
Sugar Research Institute.
(d)  Conducting maturity tests in collaboration with the
factory for the harvesting program.
(e)  Testing herbicides after preliminary servicing at the
National Sugar Research Institute.
(f)  Inspecting cane fields for detection of diseases and
pests with particular reference to smut, and roguing
smutted roots in A- and B-nurseries and, eventually,
plant cane.
(g)  Carrying out the hot-water treatment of seed cane.
(h)  Supervising meteorological observations..
(i)  Running the field laboratory for both cane and soil
analysis.
(j)  Advising the Agricultural Manager on all agricultural
matters and on agricultural problems that may arise.
Project costs for company research are included in the costs of the
companies' agricultural departments (Annex 11).
43.       National Research.  The National Sugar Research Institute is one of
the six national research stations for which the Director of Research of the
Ministry of Agriculture is responsible. Considering the important role that
research has to play in the rehabilitation of the sugar industry of Kenya,
considerable strengthening of the present set-up has to be undertaken.
Attention has already been paid to this particular aspect of sugar development
under the South Nyanza project, which provides US$1.2 million for staff and
equipment for Kibos and requires that a comprehensive sugar research program
be prepared by July 1, 1978. However, recent developments suggest that the
strengthening should go even further and include, interalia, the important



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 16
aspect of cane breeding. Conditions in the Kenya sugar lands being marginal
for cane growing, a break-through in cane yields will depend upon the produc-
tion of superior-yielding hybrid canes bred and selected under the environ-
mental conditions prevailing in the country.
44.       At the present time, the Research Institute covers too large
an area (200 ha). Therefore, the size of the station would be reduced to
a manageable 40 ha compatible with the research needs of sugarcane. Irriga-
tion would be provided at Kibos as cane under selection and propagation should
not be subjected to water stress (Annex 4).
45.       The most urgent task the station faces is the development of its
own cane breeding program. This work has already been performed with success
at the Mtwapa Agricultural Station, some 25 miles north of Mombasa, in the
late 1960's before it was transferred as a community project to the breeding
station at Kibaha, Tanzania. The breeding process consists of various variety
selection and disease screening operations which are estimated to take about
twelve years. Good commercial varieties bred elsewhere are imported from
overseas and, after a rigorous closed quarantine at Muguga, followed by open
quarantine at the research stations, subjected to a selection process esti-
mated to cover eight years. The sugarcane breeding station at Mtwapa, where
flowering conditions are good and where it is known that cane breeding can
be conducted successfully, would be reopened under the Project.
46.       The National Sugar Research Institute at Kibos, where environmental
conditions are not conducive to flowering, would be responsible for:
(a) The production, introduction, testing and selection of cane
varieties adopted to the various conditions prevailing in
Kenya sugar lands. Such testing would be properly coordi-
nated between Kibos, the nucleus estates and the outgrowers.
(b) The screening of new sugarcane varieties in disease resistance
trials during the selection program in order to assess their
reaction to major diseases present in Kenya. Susceptibility
to insect damage would be assessed concurrently.
(c) The conduct of cane nutrition studies through soil and leaf
analyses for different varieties in balanced fertilizer trials.
(d) The evaluation of the influence of environmental factors on
cane maturation in order to assess optimum times of harvest
and a balanced crop cycle.
(e) The study of different cultural practices in different soils
with particular reference to tillage/drainage/fertilizer
interactions.



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 17
(f) The economics of irrigation.
(g) The screening of herbicides and the development of balanced
spraying/mechanical/manual treatment programs.
(h) The determination of correct sampling and analytical
methods to determine the succrose content of cane.
47.       It is essential that the closest cooperation be maintained with
the planting community and, to that effect, a liaison unit, headed by an
Agronomist well conversant with sugarcane agronomy, would be created at the
National Sugar Research Institute. The unit would coordinate research and
experimentation at Kibos and each factory zone into a national program, as
a large number of trials will have to be conducted on farmers' land, and
maintain a close liaison with the farming community. This liaison would be
enhanced through diffusion of research findings, organization of seminars,
and training of agricultural personnel of the sugar companies.
48.       In order to conduct the expanded program, the technical personnel
of the National Sugar Research Institute would be strengthened even further
than already provided for under the South Nyanza project. Three more
internationally recruited experts for periods of three to four years would
be needed: a plant breeder, to direct the cane breeding and selection work;
a plant physiologist, to study the maturity behavior and soil-water rela-
tionship of the cane, and weed agronomy; and an agronomist to take charge
of the liason unit and be responsible for the planning and laying out of
experiments on farmers' land, the organization of seminars and the diffusion
of information and training of sugar company personnel. The Kenyan counter-
parts would be provided from existing staff of the Institute. A proposed
organization structure is shown in Chart World Bank 17617, and Project costs
are presented in Annex 11, Table 32. The proposed development of the National
Sugar Research Institute into a national training center for sugarcane
agronomists is described in Annex 8.
May 30, 1978



- 75 -
Table 1
SUGAR RRHAEITATION PROJECT
8umuary of Cane Land Development
(Hectares)
Existing                                          Proposed Zone
Zone      Improvement    Reclamation                      Total      Total Proposed Area Includes
in Husbandry     of Fallow     New Land to    Cane Area       Irrigation            New
Needed  /      Cane Land    be Developed      Proposed    Existing    New      Drainage
Miwani
Nucleus Estate                    3,200          3,200            __             _             3,200         --        --       2,070
Large-Scale Farms                 3,800          3,500            300          l,10o           4,900         --       400       3,100  J
Cooperative Societies 3/          2,300          3,100  /         200          1,200           4,500         --       --        4,olo
Ahero Irrigation Scheme              30             30                           7q0             800          30      770        _-
Total Miwani           9,330         9,830            500           3,070         13,400           30    1,170      9,180
Chemelil
Nucleus Estate                    3,000          3,000            --             --            3,000         --       930       1,840
Large-Scale Farms                 6,300         5,500             --             700           6,200         --       --          910
Cooperative Societies  /          3,200         1,800             --             --            1,800         --       --        1,0o0
settlement Farms 6        -_                     1,200            300            300           1,800 o                --          760
Total Chemelil        12,500        11,500             300          1,000         12,800          --       930      4,510
Muhoroni
Nucleus Estate (Nyando)           1,800          1,200            600            400           2,200         --       670         690
Large-Scale Farms                   700         1,500             --             500           2,000         --       --          --
Cooperative Societies               900            goo            _            3,700           4,600         --       --           30
Settlemert Farms                  5700           3,300  /         900            500           4,700          _                   620
Total Muhoroni         9,100         6,900           1,500          5,1.00        13,500          --       670      1,340
Total Sugar Belt      31,130        28,230           2,300          9,170         39,700           30    2,770     15,030
Ramisi
Nucleus Estate                    5,200          4,700  /         _-           1,690           6,390         370      40        --
Large Farms                         480            480            --                             480         --        -
Smallholders                        320            320                         2 2450         2.770          _         _         _
Total Ramisi           6,ooo         5,500              -           4,140          9,640          370       _
TOTAL PROJECT         37130         33730            2.300         13,310          49.34         4    3470      15,030
In addition to routine cane maintenance and replanting, the area would require improvement in
cultural practices.
/ Excludes drainage of 400 ha to be irrigated; inqluded in irrigation component(ANNEX 4).
Includes smiallholder production and marketing societiep only; excludes large farmers' society.
/ Increase due to land added from Chemelil zone (ANNEX 2).
Drainage already exists in irrigated rice scheme and pilot cane area.
i Settlement farm area added from Muhoroni zone.
7/ Decrease due to re-zoning to Chemelil (1,200 ha) and phasing out of unsuitable land (1,200 ha).
Decrease due to phasing out of 500 ha of very sandy land.
December 9, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR RERABILITATION PROJECT
Present and Expected Sugarcane Yields /
Present -                                       Expected Under the Project
Growing Area                        Average Per      Plant Crop   1st Ratoon   2nd Ratoon   3rd Ratoon    Total Per    Length of   Average Per
Year                                                               Crop Cycle   CrpCyl            Year
(t/ha)        -------------------------  (t/ha) --------------------------- -     7 CropCyc7       (t/ha)
Miwani
Nucleus Estate                       35                87            73           60            --           220            60            44
Large Farms, Rainfed                 28                77            65           53            --           195            60            39
Large Farms, Irrigated               --               120          100            80            75           375            60            75
Cooperative Societies                28                71           60            49            --           180            60            36
Ahero Irrigation Scheme              75               120           100           80            75           375            60            75
Chemelil
Nucleus Estate, Rainfed              45                96            82           67            --           245            60            49
Nucleus Estate, Irrigated            --               120           100           80            75           375            60            75
Large Farms                          36                88            75           62            --           225            60            45
Cooperative Societies                30                75            63           52            __           190            60            38
Settlement Farms                     30                75           63            52            __           190            60            38
Muhoroni
Nucleus Estate, Rainfed              28                84            72           59            --           215            60            43
Nucleus Estate, Irrigated            --               120           100           80            75            375           60            75
Large Farms                          40                98            84           68            --           250            60            50
Cooperative Societies                30                84            72           59            __           215            60            43
Settlement Farms                     30                81           68            56            __           205            60            41
Ramisi
Nucleus Estate, Rainfed              20                55            47           38            --            140           42           140
Nucleus Estate, Irrigated            50               101            84           67            63            315           54            70
Large Farms                          19                44            37           31            --           112            42            32    H
Smallholders                         23                53            45           39            --            137           42            39   N
Unless specifically indicated otherwise, yields are for rainfed production.
July 20, 1977



- 77-
Year 1      leer 2      Year3       Y.-.  4     Year5        Year 6      Ye- 7       Ya.e B      Y.-.  9      Year 10      Ieee 11
A. M100251
K.,h  -Y                                   ~~ ~        ~~~~~30  3    30          30          30          30           30          30          30          30            30
Nurseries-- Mother Nursery                           ~~~~        ~~~ ~ ~~~270  270  270    270         270         270          270         270         270         270           270
Impro-d Husbandry Land   P-- lr  Crop  /                                  -          640         640         640         640          640         640         640         640          640          640
-1st est--  3/-                                           -           -          640         640    60    640    6O140                        640         640           640
2-Od Ra..otb/                                -           -            -           -          480         64            4           40         60          60            64,0
Total Nuneua Estate ProJect Ares coder Ca-                               300         640o      1. 200      1. 920      2.560       3.20        3.20         3.200       3.200       36.200        320
ImProved tlsba,tdY Lard --Pl-nC Ecp 6/                                    -       1,240        1,240       1,240       1,240       1,240        1,240       1,240       1,240         ,240        1240
l- 1t  otto.e 3/                             -            -           -        1,260       1,240       1,240       1,240        1,24        1,240       2,240         1,240
--2nd RetIrn 3/                              -           -            -           -          990       1.240       1,240        1,240       1,240       1.240         1,240
Are  Uod-e Cea            -                    1,240       2.400       3.7120      4*906        6.0         6.200       6.200        6.200       6.200        6.200
Roluirnd Fa1ra Laod   P-        ' ln  Crop 5/                             -          12          100         100          100         100         100         100          100         100          100
-- lt Rtenure3/                                 -           -           -.         100         100          100         100         100          200         100          100
--2nd eto..n 3/                                 -           .           -           -           75          100         100         100         100          200          100
Area Urder Tes-                                    100          200         300         400         300         500          500         500         500           500
ire -1enlpd Lend --Plant Crop 6                                                    4160        460         460         460         460          460         460         460          460          440
I- lt Retai   3/                                   -           -           -          460          460         460         440         460          460         460          460
--2nd R.ar. 3/                                           -           -                  -          345         460         460          460         460         -460         460
Are   ader Cae              -                          440         920       1.30D       1.040       2.300        2.300       2.3G0        2.300       2.300        2.300
Irriated Land -P Plan  Crop 7/                                                        -          260         260          260         260         160         260          260        .260          260 
--le  tenure 0/                                                     .           -          105         260          240         260         105         235          260          260
-- Oi Rtenur   /                                       -.                                   -          130         260          260         260         210          210          260
-- ld  eturn. 0/                                       -            --                                  -            65         260         260         260          235          105
fle  Urder Car                                  -           -          260         _520         700       1.040       1.200       1.200        1.200       0.200        1.200
Tota  0ntgr--r  Project A-r Und-r Cen  5/ 1.0                                                   .6          .2          .0         000        1.0           020        1.0          020          1.0
Trilrica    Poec  fo   Te           ee300                                               2,040       5,140        7,040      10,540      13,240      03,400       13,400      13,400      13,400        15,400
CHEIBOLIL
rue-i-  -- Mother  -irer                                                 30          30          30           30          30          30          30           30          30          30            30
-- Nuroerlto  1/                              2~~ ~ ~~~~             ~~~ ~ ~~60  260  200  200  242        240         240          240         260         010           240
Iinpun..ed 1usbandrY Lead --Plan  Crop 2/                                            600         600          600         600         gO           9000 00                              0
--lent-trr3/                                              -                      oCT         600          o(o          00          00         9000((
2. 2d MO.rr  4/                               -           -           -           -          450         6Cr          400         600          Doo        600           600
Are  Coder C-r                          -          600       1 200       1.000       2.400       3.000       3.000        3.000       3.000       3.000         3.000
I-rrc tad Land    Plain Cmp 7I                                                        -          200          230         230,        240          .          230          230         230          240
-1 o   R.nr  0/                                         -           .                      172          231'        230         230          60          172         230          230
lad tero  0                                           -           .                        -          1015        230         230          235         120         105           230
3rd Ratnre 0/                                         .           .           -            -           -           50         230          250         232         100            00
Area Under Caro             .          -          230         ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~           ~      ~~~~~460  69  90 30 930  030  030           930
TotnI NucI-n tEtao Project Are  Coder Coc..60                                                  142_    2,2600           3 3,0       3,050       3,3         3,39,30                  3,930        3.930
TItP-nrd tc-buodey Land -  Plant nia 6/-                                           1,700       1,700        1,700       1,700       1,0         1,700       1,7010       1,700       1.700        1,700
-- let Ranoun 2/           -           -           .        1,~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~700  1700  1700  1700  1,00      1700         2,00         1,00
--2nd Rancor. 3/                              -                       -            -       1, 275       1,700       1,700       1,700        1,700       1,700        1,700
Ares  ader Car                          -So2o340                        510           ,0         9.500       0,500       0,300        0,500       0.500        0,500
R-cluied Fr11oo Lard --Plant Tnp 5/                                       -           60           62          60          60          60           60          60          60          60            60
--lstuu...rl/                                   .                                     0    0      6     0     6     0                 600                     40            4
--2r  otro3  -C--                                                                           45          60          60          60           60          60           42
Area Ondor Csnr                             oo ~~~-:.~120         iBs          24tc        300          300         300         300         300           300
Nee D-rolped Lard   P-- lr  Conp Q/                                       -          200          200         200         200         200          200         200         200         200           100
1st Retur  3/                                     -                                  200          200         200         200         200          200         200          200
2--2d Maot-  3/                                    -                                    -          150          200         200         200         200         200           200
Area Co,der Car                                         2 00       400          600        000        1.000       1.000       100          1,00         ,00         1,0
Total Cutorreers Projoci flea Under Cano      -        1,960       3.020       5,00~~~~~~~0 7,040       9,000       9,000       9,00     000            0,000   9,80  _8000
Total litruolil Pruirci flea Under Cane                   .      ~~~~~~     ~~~2,540  5.352  8,140    10.930      13.730      13.730       13.730      13.730      13,730       13.730



Tebl. 3
Plentia  adlatule.,m Schwdul.
Y.-aI       Ye."2    Y.- 3          Y.ae 4      55.05        Y.- 6       Y-ae7        Y.-rO       Y.-r9        Ya-rll        Y.- ll
C. 900060N1
Nucleus Estate
Nar--lee   MaCb- N-reen                                                    25          25          25          25           25          25           25          23           25          23            25
N- -iee..  1/                                                 240         240        240          240         240          240         240          240         240          240           240
Imp-ovd H..b.odry Lend  P- Pat Crop )/                                     -          106         106         106         106          106         106          106         106          106           106
- lt Ratoo  3/-                                            -    -                 106         106          106         106          106         106          106           106
2.ld Ra.o.n 3/                                 -           -                       -           80          106         106          106         106          106           106
0th-tota1                                                                        106        210         lIe         AoL          so,          'IO         510          550         550           vl
Reo.,eeid Fallow  Laad- Plent Crop 6/                                      -          120         120         120          120         120          120         120          120         120           120
-l.t Rat ... 3/                                   -            -          -          120          120         120          020         120          120         120           120
-2nd Ronoo ..   /                                 -            -          -           -            90         120          120         120          120         120           120
Sub-totol                                                            -          02          240         360          480         600          606         606          606         600           600
Ne-ly Develop.d Loud  P- at Crop 4/-                                                   80          60          80           00          00           00          80          00           80            80
- St Rat... I/-                                                -          -           60           so          0      80                00    00    80    s                     00
-2nd Ratoo  3/-                                                -                      -            60          80           80o         0      80    s           80            s0
Sub-total                                                                         so0       160          240         320         400          406         480          400         400           400
Irrigatd Lend    K.Pea  Crop 7/                                            -           -          160         170          170         170           -          160          170         170           170
I.le  Ra-ooO 9/-                                                                 -          120          168         170          170          42         120          168           170
-2nd Rat... 5/-1                                                                                          80         165         170          170          05           00           165
-3rd Ratoou D/-                                                      -                                    -           40          163         170          1700        127            40
Sob-total1                                                                                  160         330          500         670         67            7          670          60             70
Total Noolote OEtate frojeot Ae  Unde- Cane                         265          306        772        1248         1724        2200         2200        2200         2200        2200          220
lnpro-d Heb.ndry Lead - FlIut Crop ~/-                                               1140       1040         1140        1140         1140        1140         1140        1140         1140         1140
- lt latoo   /                                             -           -         1140        1140         1140        1140         1140        1140         1140         1140
-2nd Rntoon3-                                                          -           -          855         1140        1140         1140        1140         1140         1140
Sub-totl1                                                                      1140        2280        3420        4560         5700        5700         5700         5700        5706          57001
Setlatmd Fal1on Lend -Pleat CroP t/                                                    IS10       1S00          O           S 180      18010        10          180          180         1S0           180
- lt R.to..n 3/-                                             -           -          10   18     0IB          100          180         180          180         100           180
-2ud Ratoo.. 3/                                  -            -                     135          106         100         100          160         100          100l          180
Sob-total                                                                        IS10       360         540          720         80           96 900      900 l         01         900l           .0
Newly level  pod Lend -Plant Crop 6-                                                  940         940         940          940         940          940         940         940          940           940
-letoRtoon3                                       -            -          -          940          940         940          940         940         940          940           940
-2nd Ratoon 3/                                                                        -           7050        940         940          940          940         940           940
Sub-to-l1                                                                        940       1000        2820         3760        4706        4700         4700        4700         4706         470
Total O-tt9r--r  frj-tt Area  nder C-.e                               -5       2260        4520        670         940         1130        1130         1130        113-         11306         1 t30
To tal O6h-ron  Praj-t Are  Under Coon                              265        26          5292        :0028'      10704       135100      03506         30  13500         135      06 135        06io
D. 160MI1I
Norleus Eatate
Nure--e-  lither N--teere                                                   25          25         25          30           30          25           25          30           30          25            25
-  oarr    /                                             225         225        225         320          320         225         225          270         320          225           225
I.provd Onboudry -Plan  Crop 21                                             -         066         866         066        1406         1732         066          066        1732         0190          866
- lt Ratoon D/                                        -          -         006         006          066        1190         1732         066          066        1732          1408
-2nd Ret..n LO/-                                                 -          -           866         066         866         1190        1732          066         866          1732
Area Under Can.                                 -         866        1732        2590        3464         4330        4330        4330         4330        4330          4330
Yledy Developed Lend  I-Fot Crap 0 /j                                                 564         563         163          352         563         313           61         564          563          563
- lt Ratoan l/                                                 -         564         563          163         201         563          413         152          564          563
-2nd Rt.-to   QOI                                              -          -          564          563         163          211         563         413          102          564
Are  Onde  Cane                                         5614      1127        1290         1290        1290         1290        1290         1290        1.290        1.290
Irrigated Lnod  P- pat Crop  /j                                                        -          370        4tOT          -            -          230          390         150           -            -
-let Ranar...-                                                        -                     370         400           -           -           140         380         250            -
-2udlanon1t                                               -          -                       -          370          L~o          -            -          140         3105          230
-3rd Rotoo  LO/                                                       -          -           -            -          370         400           -           -            -           370
Area fndr Coue                                       -          -         370         771          770    70                770         775         770          770          773
Tota1 Nool... OE.tane Are   nder Cane.                                         143        3229         4650        5524       68390         6390         6390        6390        6390          6390
Inp-oed H.eboodry-Plaut C-op B/                                             -         260        270          270         163          266         270         101          260         270           270
- lt Retoon i2/                                                  -         260         270          270          97          264         270         169          260          270
-2nd Retoe  1/-                                                                        260          270         270           97         264         270          169          260
Are  Und-r Cae-                                           260         530         800         0       00   806          006         806         000         8006          806
Sorby Developed Ara-   Plant Crop S /                                                 490        090.         490         000         9800         490         490          900         670           490
-   teRt  ... n1/                                  -           -         490         490         490          670         906          490         490          980          goo
-2nd Raeton LO/Y                                               -          -          490         490          490         670          980         490         490           980
Are  Suder Cane.                                        490        980        1470         1960        2450        2450         2450        2450         2450         2450
Totol SOtgr-r  Are  Uder Cane.                                                  750        1510        2270        2760         3250        3250        3250         3250        3250          32.50
Totol Ranle  Are  Seder Can                                                    7180       4739         6928        8284         9640        9640         9640        9640        9640         94
1/To be Iti-lded io veun  ftre    fier ottltg of ..eed reeOne yar efter plouling. 
0/ vldeetre   ne             - eedg perIod i. 27 natba.
(! ro-leg period So 10   othb..
Groing period So 10 nonthn.  D.ne not in-lod  tueeynos
I/ ulde-  n-en o-le  nrrrle  plwot -rp  end r-tena.
G- SowOg ret-Sd is 22 moutho.
"/GoIn  p,,riod So 16 vo_th
Groin  Per,o   ia 14 ...tnib.
I- lordrO  plent  -op ploa   --yes  opn          -Ioing period On 16 ounte..
1/ rong po-Sod i~12 ... ntbh.
D-cvi- 9, 1970



ANNEX 6
-  -                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 4
-79  -Ml
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION  RECT
Cane Harvesting Schedule 1/
(Hectares)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year 6      Year 7      Year 8     Year 9      Year 10   Year 11
A. MIWANI
Nuc1e.s Estate
Improved Husbandry Land          -          -           -           640      1,120       1,280      1,920       1,920       1,920      1,920      1,920
Total Nucleus Estate        -          -           -          640       1,120       1,280      1.920       1,920      1.920       1,920      1,920
Outgrowers
Improved Husbandry Land          -          -           -         1,240      2,230       2,480      3,720       3,720       3,720      3,720      3,720
Reclaimed Fallow Land            -          -           -           100        175         200        300         300         300        300        300
Newly Developed Land   -                    -           -           460        805         920      1,380       1,380       1,380      1,380      1,380
Irrigated Land                              -           -           195        390         585        780         965         965        965        965
Total Outgrowers            -          -           -        1,995       3,600      4,185       6,180       6,365      6,365       6,365      6.365
Total Miwani Area                -          -           -        Z,6Z9       4,507       5,183      7,542       7,727       7,727      7,727      7,727
B. CHEMELIL
Nucleus Estate
Improved Husbandry Land          -          -           -           600      1,050       1,200      1,800       1,800       1,800      1,800      1,800
Irrigated Land                   -          -                       172        345         518        698         755         754        755        758
Total Nucleus Estate        -          -           -           772      1,395       1,718      2,498       2,555      2,554       2,555      2,558
outgrowers
Improved Husbandry Land          -          -           -         1,700      2,975       3,400      5,100       5,100      5,100       5,100      5,100
Reclaimed Fallow Land            -          -           -            60        105         120         180        180         180        180        180
Newly Developed Land             -          -           -           200        350         400        600         600         600        600        600
Total Outgrowers            -          -           -        1.960       3,430       3.920      5,880       5,880      5.880       5,880     5.880
Total Chemelil Area              -          -           -        2,732       4,825       5.638      8,378       8,435      8.434       8,435     8,434
C. MJHORONI
Nucleus Estate
Improved Husbandry Land          -          -           -           106        186         212        318         318         318        318        318
Reclaimed Fallow Land            -           -          -           120        210         240        360         360         360        360        360
Newly Developed Land             -           -          -            80        140         160         240        240         240        240        240
Trrigated Land                   -          -           -           '20        248         375        502         542         545        546        545
Total Nucleus Estate        -          -           -           426        814         948      1,420       1,460      1,463       1,464      1,463
Outgrowers
Improved Husbandry Land          -           -          -         1,140      1,995       2,280      3,420       3,420      3,420       3,420      3,420
Reclaimed Fallow Land            -           -          -           180        315         360         540        540         540        540        540
Newly Developed Land             -           -          -           940      1.645       1,880      2,820       2,820      2,820       2,820      2/820
Total Outgrowers            -          -           -        2.260       3.955      4.520       6.780       6,780      6.780       6.780_ 6780
Total Muhoroni Area              -           -          -         2.686      4.769       5.507      8.200       8.240      8.243       8.244      8.243
D. RAMIISI
Nucleus Estate
Improved Husbandry Land          -           -          866       1,732      2,598       2,922      3,788       3,464      3,464       3,464     4,006
Newly Developed Land             -           -          564       1,127      1,290         937        935         979      1,079       1,079     1,079
Irrigated Land                   -           -          -           370        770         770        610         N30        520         630       620
Total Nucleus Estate        -          -         1,430      3,229       4,658      4,629       5,355      4,833       5,063      5,173      5,705
Outgrowers
Improved Husbandry Land          -           -          260         530        800         637        631         534        703         695       800
Newly Developed Land             -           -          490         980      1,470       1.650      2,140       1,960      1.960       1,960     2.270
Total Outgrowers            -          -           750      1,510       2,270       2,287      2,771       2,494      2.663       2,655     3.070
Total Ramisi Area                -           -        2,180       4.739      6.928       6.916      8.126       7,32,7     7,7t2       7,02.     01 ,(
1/ Based on planting schedule shown in Table 3.
December 9, 1977



- OH -
KENYA                                                                                           Table  
SUGAR RER{AILETATION  MOJECT                                                                                Page  -1 at
AddltleaCultd.tgohd.                                          
aaae per ha)          ~~~~Year 1    Year 2       OYce 3        Year A       Year  5       Year  6        Y-a    7       Year  0        Year 9       Year 10       Yea  11
0.   lOWAET
N-1aus Estate
EnaigCan   Are   2712                                                                      112           112          112           112           112            112            112            112           112           112
1.p-d H.            --  lues   rapy1L- -d                                                                                  12            12            12             12             12             12            12            12
I- etItne15                                                   -            -                          -             7            10             10             I0             10            17           10
2-- d aen12                                                                                                                                                    - --     -- 
IsraealCan  Prd.n.nN           .l Estate .                                                                            12             19          22             30             31              30           30            30
Total Cane Pr-da-tian-N-le.a  Estate                                          112          112          112           124           131           134            142            142            142           142          142
E.iting  Cane Are      3                                                           200         20H           200           200           200          200            200             200            200          2EE           200
Inpe...nd Hnabandey Land
--elena  Crop              ~~~~~                                    ~~15  -  -    -            19            19           19             19              19            19            10            10
--  las Hato-on                    13                           -           -             -             -           12            17             17             17             I7            17            17
--2ad Rateon                       10                           -           -             -            -             --13                                       13             13            13-           13
btntnl                                            -           -             -           ~~~          ~~~           ~~~            ~~~            ~~~~~~                       ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19  31  36  49  49  49  49  49
-PI., C_op                         24-7                                                                7             7             7              7              7              7             7             7
-aRoacona                        63                          -                         -             -             5             6              6              6              6             6            6
--ld R.tan52                                                   -            -             -            -             --5                                         5              555
-  -            -            ~~          ~~~           ~~~            ~~      ~~7 17  13  10  10     10            10            is
Ntaly Ee-elped Land
-Pi.tnC_ep                         73                          -3                                      4            34            34             34             34             34            34            34
L-t.at R--                         63                          -            -            -             -            22            79             29             29             29            29           79
--ld  R-e..                        31                          -            -             -            -             -            -              23             23             23            73            23
SnEbt.t.                                                                                     -                         34            56            63             86             06             06            06            06
ll,ig-d L..            Plan   Cry104                                                                                       2    0        26            26             26             19             24            26            26
--1 t -Htn                     07                           -           -             -             -           11            22             72            22              10            10           22
--2ad Rt...                        69-                                      -             -            -             -             4                    10      1              10           16            12
-3ed'at-o                          64                          -                          -            -             -             -              -             16             16            16            16
?>Ctatal                                          -            -             -           ~~~          ~~~           ~~~            ~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  37  52  66  75  76  7  76
Io-eretal Cue-  P-da-tie-Otgoer                                                             -           -                          0           136          164            219            220             229          229           229
Total Cant Prod-ation  -  Eatga-tr                                                       200          200           200          200           336           364            419            420            429           429           429
Iee--tte1 Cane P-da-ti-n -   Mi-aai                                                         -           -             -           92           155           106            249            250            209           259          250
Total Cane Prodatilo- -   i-ei                                                           312          312          317           4G4           467           490            561            570            5 71          571           571
H.  CHEIOlIl,
Encatin   Cane kee    4/                                                            130          135           135          135           135           135            135            135            135           135           135
Inpen-d 1sabandry Land -  Plaan  CroP                      8                                 -            -                   5             5             5              5              5              5             5             5
--lt Rataae                7                           -           -             -             -            3             4              4              4              4             4             4
-2edfRt...                 S 5                                                                               -            -              3               3              3            3             3
TeEtotal                                                                                                                5             H             9             12             12             12            12            12
I-elga-d Land              P-- Pat Crop                   48                                                                   8           11             11            191             3              0            1 1           191
-   t R.no -               40                           -      .                  -             -             5              9             99                            55 
-2edlaRt o                  32                          -            -            -             -             -              2             7              7              7             6             2
-3rd HRtna                  30                           -           -             -             -            -               -            -              77                           _7            7
3,b.totl                                                                         -                                                   16             22            27             26             2 7           29            29
I-ure.etn1 Cane Prad..tin   -laeN-1           Peruse                                   -           -             -            13           24            31             39             30             39            41           41
Total Cane Preda.tin  -ONe-1-  Eatate                                               130          135           135          140           159           166            174            173            174           176           176
EinjuIng Ca.. Are    4/299                                                                       299          799           299           299           799            799            299            299           799           299
Isapeaed H-nbundry Land  -Plan  Crop                      14                           -           -             -           24            24            24             24             24             24            24            24
-l.t HRneen               12                           -           -             -             -            15           70             20             20             20            70            20
-2nd Rt...e               10                           -                         -             --                          -            17             17              Ii           17            17
ThObtetal                                                                       -2                                      4           39            44             61             61              61           61            61
fealased  Fa11wL..d    --Plant Crap                       75                           -                                                    5             5              3                                             
I-aftRt..                 63                           -            -            -             -             3            A              4              4               4            4             4
3-Sd Ratee                52                                                                                                                             3 -3 --3-33
SHbtHt&l                                                                        -            -            -             5             g             9             12             12             12            a2            12
NnalyleD-Ieped Lad            -PleatCrap                  84                           -                         -            17            17     .     17              17            17              17           17            17
--1st Return              71                                                                                 I       1    14            14             14              14            14           14
-2edRut.ee                59                                                      -            - -I -1                                                  12121                                      12
OobHetal                                           -           -              -         ~~~           ~~~           ~~~           ~~~            ~~~~~~                       ~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17  -20  31  42  43 -  H  Hi  Hi
Enteaan-l Can   eeud-itu                                                                                                    46aoent  -- A  75          00            116            116             116          126           116
Tarul Cane Peadatlee.  -Oatgt--e                                                     299         299           299           34 5         374           363            415            015            415           415           415
Inc-tenna  Case Pr-d-tin-  Ch-ai,el                                                    -           -             -            59           99           115            135            154             152          157           157
Total Case P-adantion  - ClseanIil                                                  434          434           434           493          535           549            580            300            509           39t           591



- 81 -
KENYA                                                                                ANNFP  6
SUG    TIAR GABI/TLTTATT01 PR/OJECT                                                                Tabc _,
Cane Product;on _che e                                                                                   2 ge2n  3
Additional
Yields          Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year S         -ear 6     Year 7      Yea.   a     Year 9       Year 10       Yeer 11
it Of care/hal
MhHORIONI
N-le... EYcee
Eaistieg Cane Area 6/                                                   50                                    50          50           50           50           10          50           50            50
Ieproved Hasbacdry Land
Plant Crop                                          29               -            -            -            3           3            3            3           3            3            3             3
Ist  atooc                                          25               -            -           -            _            2            3           3            3            3            3             I
2ndgacoec                                           21              _            _             -          _           _              -           2            2            2            2             2
Zuttotal                                                             -           -            -            3           1            6            8            A           8            8             R
Recl.iaed Fa110. Land
Plant Crap                                          84               -            _            _          10           10           10          10           10           10           10            10
ISt Rotoo-                                          72               -            -            -           -            7            9            9           9            9            9            9
2nd Rat-nc                                          59              _            _           _            _            _             -          _             7            /                         7/
Oubtotal                                                                                                  10          17           19           26           26          26           26            26
Noe Dev-lped tande
Plant Crop                                          84                -           -            -           7            7            7            7           /            7            7             7
St R.acone                                          72               -            -            _           -            2            3           3            3            3            3            3
lcd Rt ..e                                          59                                                                            ..c            2                         2            2
3ubtottl                                                             -            _            _           7           9           10           12          12           12           12            12
Irrigated load
Plnet Crop                                          75                -           -            -           9           13           13          13            3            9           13           13
lot Ratrot                                          65                -           -            -           -            5           10          11           11            5            5            10
2nd Rtoon                                           50                -           -            -            -           -            2            a           9            9            6             2
3rd.atoo-                                           47              _            _           _            _           __             -          _             E                         8             E
S/xbtotal                                                            _            -           -            9          18           25           32           31          31           32            33
Ronnanancal Cane Prodoctia- N-cle.. Estate                               -                        -           29          49           60           78          77           77           78            79
Yt-al C .e Prodaction - Nunters Erate                               50           50           50          79           99          110         128          127          127          128           129
Oatnrrnere
Eniatieg Cane Arce  7/                                                 205         205          205          205         205          205          205          205        205           205           205
I=pro-ed H-nba-dry Land
Plan  Crop                                          15                -            -           -          17           17           17          17           17           17           17           17
ISt Ratoo.                                          13                -            -           -            -          11           15          15           15           15           15            15
2nd Rt...on                                         11              _- _                                                             -          13           13           13           13           13
Subtotal                                                             -            -           -           17          28           32           45          45           45           45            45
R-elaieid Falna1 Laed
Place Crp                                           81                -            -           -          15           15           55          15           15           15           15           15
Itt Ratooc                                          68                                   -                 -            9           12          12           12           12          12            12
7ntdtatnoc                                          56              _              -           -          _            _             -          10           10           10          50           1i
Snbtqtal                                                                                                  15          24           27           37           37          37           37            37
Net Develeped Land
Pleet Cr-op                                          5                - _            _                    80           80           Si          I0           80           80           80           80
let R.tone                                          73                -            -           -           -           51           69          69           69           69          69            69
2rd Ratnor                                          60              _            _           _            _            _           _            56           56           56           56            56
Subtta.l                                                                                                 80          131          149          205         285          205          205           205
I-nretneal Cane Predoctiec - Ougrouera                                  -            -           -          112         183          208          28 7         20/         287          207           287
Total Caee Produntion - Outgrover-                                  205         205          205         317          388          413         492          492          492         492           492
Incre-e-tal Cane Prtdontt-e   - Muhorn-i                                 -            -           -          141         232          268          365         364          364          365           366
Total Caea Prodaction - 14sho...i                                   255         255          255         396          487          523         620          619          619          620           621



- d2 -
KENYA
SUGAR RRABI{BIC10 P5OJEOC                                                                     AMEX  6
C... Prod-otlon She.dle  i/                                                                   TblT  5
'000t)                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAS. 3 of 3
Additior,1
Yield.         Y-  1       Ye.r 2      Y-r 3       Ye.r 4      Ye.  5      Y.e- 6       Yeer 7      Ye.- 8      Y."r 9      Yew. 10      ywr 11
(t of ce2bh)
D, RAMISI1
Nuilseu Estate
E.i.ting Cone Are-  3/                                              105        105          105         105         105         105         105         105          105         105          105
Improved HOahendry Lend
Pln.  Crop                                       27              -           -          23          23          23           32          47          23          23          47            34
IJt R.toon                                        24              -           -                      21          21           21          29          42          21          21           42
2nd R.toon                                        19            -_                                                16          16          16          16          33           16           16
Subtotel                                                          _           _          23          44          60          69          92          81           77          84           96
NecOy Developed L.nd
Plnt Crop                                         95              -           -          31          31            9          12          31          23           6          31            el
Ilt R0t...                                        47              -           -           -          26           26           8          10          26          19           5            26
2nd R--oot                                        38             _           _                       _           21           21           6          _           21          16
SObtotola                                                                                31          57          56          41          47,         49           46          52           56
Or1         Ot
Irrigeted Lend 9/                             370 ha      400 14
Pl-.  Crop                                  29         101        -           -           -          11           40           -           -           4          22          75             -
lIt R.too.                                  24          84        -           -           -           -           9           34           -                       3          19           21
2nd R.toon                                  19          67        _           _           _           _            -           7          27           -           -           -             7
3rd Rtoon                                   18          63                                                                                 4 _  _  -  _  _  4  16
loletotl                                                          -           -                      11          49          41          31          20          25           44           28
Thnoretipel  ncroen-entl C-ne P-oduction - Nclene  Itone              -           -          54         112         165         5l1         170         150          148         180          180
R.eieid Increen..-l Prod=ctio- - N-cle-  E-tte.                      -           -          22          56         100         105         135         135         150          100          180
Tonal C.ne Prod-tic o -N-tion - eu  EnCe                        105         105         127         161         205          210         240         240         25          2 285        o85
Outgrovi rs
Enieting Cone Ar-c   /                                               15          15          15          15          15          15          15          15         15            15           15
Itproved H.sbovdry L.nd
0l-0t Crop                                        20              -          -            5           5            5           1           5           5           4           6             6
I.t Rotoon                                        16              -          -            -           4           4            4           2           4           4           3            4
2nd Rtoon                                         13                                                               3           4           4           -           3           3            4
S,3tntl                                                           _-                      5           9          12           9          11           9          11          12            16
Neoly Develped Lend
Pi - Crop                                         53              -          -           26          26          26           36          52          26          26          52           42
let Rtoon        -                                45              -          -            -          22          22           22          30          44          22          2            44
2nd R.toon                                        37              -           _          _           _           19           16          18          10          36          18           18
OvIlotni                                                          -          -           26         48           66          76         100          88          84          92           104
Theorenicel Innreteientel Prodnction - Ootgroe)ere                    _          _           31          57          78          85         111          97          95         104          II1
Relieid In-renentol Prod-ntion - Ontgro--er                          -          _           13          30          48          61          90          88          95          104         119
Totel C.n- Productio- - Ontgro-ere                               15          15          28          45           63          76         105         103         110         119          133
In-reenntol C.ne Production  - R..iSi                                 -           -         35           86         148         166         225         223         245         284          298
To-el C.ne P-duction - Reei.i                                   120         120         155         206          268         286         345         343         365         404          418
1/  Be..d on  .erveetlg enhednle shn in TeAbI  4.
2/  3.200 he yielding 35 t/h./ye-r
3/  7,100 h. yielding 28 n/h/ye-r
4/  3,000 h. yielding 45 t/h./ye-r
5/  80800 h. yielding 34 t/h./ye.e.
6/  1.800 h. yieldiog 28 r/he/ye-r
7/  6,600 h. yielding 31 t/ho/ye-r
8/  4,700 he yielding 22 t/hs/yeer (including 370 h. irrigened lnd).
|/  In-udes -ehbilitnti-n of existing 37311   nd neu developtent of 400 h.
/2J  890 hI  yielding 21 t/ln/yeer
Decb-er 3, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outgrower Labor Requirements Per Hectare of Sugarcane 1/
(Mandays)
Total Per    Average
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5     Crop CYcle    Per Year
RAINFED CANE
Sugar Belt 2/
Planting                20          --          --         --                         20           4.0
Fertilizing              2           2          2           2          --              8           1.6
Gapping                  5          --                     --          --              5           1.0
Weeding 3/              90          90         45          45          --            270          54.0
Trash Lining 4/         --          --                     --          -- -  
Total            117          92          47          47          --            303          60.6
Ramisi 5/
Planting                20          --         --          --         n.a.            20           5.7
Fertilizing              3           3          2          __         n.a.             8           2.3
Gapping                  5          --         --                     n.a.             5           1.4            0
Weeding 6/              60          60         60          --         n.a.           180          51.4
Trash Lining            --          10         10          10         n.a.            30           8.6
Total              88          73         72          10        n.a.            243          69.4
IRRIGATED CANE
Sugar Belt 7/
Planting                20          -- --            --                --             20           4.0
Fertilizing              3           3          3           2           1             12           2.4
Gapping                  5          --         --          --          --              5           1.0
Weeding 8/              75          60         60          45          15            255          51.0
Trash Lining            --          --         --          --          --             --           --
Total             103         63          63          47          16            292          58.4
O0 0o
l/  Excluding cane harvesting as this operation generally would not be performed by farmers, and land
clearing on newly developed land.
2/ Based on a crop cycle of 60 months, with one plant and two ratoon crops.
3/ Assuming six handweedings per crop.
4/ Not required on land where cane would be burned before harvesting.
5/ Based on a crop cycle of 42 months, with one plant and two ratoon crops.
6/ Assuming four handweedings per crop.
7/ Based on crop cycle of 60 months, with one plant and three ratoon crops.
8/ Assuming five handweedings for the plant crop, and for four ratoons,
Julv 20. 1977



- 84 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Harvesting, Handling and Transport of Sugarcane
A. Harvesting of Cane
Harvesting Method and Labor Availability
1.        Sugarcane has traditionally been harvested manually in Kenya.  While
there has been ample labor available in western Kenya to do this kind of work,
the local people in the Ramisi area have been unwilling to cut unburnt cane and
laborers have had to be hired from western Kenya to serve as cane cutters at
Ramisi. This arrangement worked well in the past, but signs are beginning to
appear of increasing difficulties in recruiting manpower for cane cutting as
other jobs are slowly becoming available and the pool of labor willing and
able to perform this relatively unpleasant and tiring task is being reduced.
Contributing to this trend is the rapid expansion of the sugar industry in
Nyanza and Western Provinces, which is creating new employment opportunities
both in the construction of new factories and the establishment of large areas
of new cane. In the face of these developments, industry management is in-
clined to substitute mechanical harvesting for the cutting of cane by hand.
2.        Although expensive and from an operational point of view compli-
cated and demanding in terms of required skills, mechanized harvesting is well
developed and could be applied successfully in Kenya. It would most likely
benefit the sugar companies as it would reduce the problems of managing large
numbers of cutting gangs and assure a continous and reliable harvesting capa-
bility. However, mechanization at this time would not be in the national
interest as it is highly capital intensive while the country is suffering
from severe unemployment problems, and the importation of harvesting equip-
ment would contribute to a worsening of the already unfavorable balance of
payments. Measures have to be derived, therefore, to meet the industry's
needs for cane harvesting by other means than full mechanization.
3.        The main thrust of alleviating future shortages of harvest labor
would have to include wider use than at present of mechanical loading prac-
tices and the improvement in living and working conditions of cane cutters.
Manual cane loading, requiring great physical stamina, is most difficult to
recruit labor for and would be replaced by mechanical means under the Project.
In an immediate effort to improve living conditions, the Project would support
construction of additional housing and other social facilities (Annex 10).
To improve working conditions, it would be necessary to first determine the
exact nature of the problem. Such measures as issuance of protective cloth-
ing, the avoidance of the hottest hours of the day in scheduling daily cutting
shifts, the scheduling of optional short-hour shifts, the burning of cane



- 85 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
before cutting wherever possible, and the institution of a bonus pay system
could be expected, among others, to have a positive impact on labor avail-
ability and should be investigated. To this end, the Ministry of Labor in
cooperation with KSA and representative labor organizations, would conduct a
study and submit recommendations to the Minister of Agriculture and the Bank
before December 31, 1979.
Harvesting in the Nyanza Sugar Belt
4.        The cane harvesting schedule is presented in Annex 6, Table 4.
All cane, including smallholder outgrowers cane but generally excluding cane
from large farmers, would be harvested and transported by the staff of the
agriculture services (or equivalent) section of the companies' Agricultural
Department in each zone. Most large farmers would harvest their own cane,
with the factories scheduling the harvest time. Harvesting would not be
carried out during the very wet months of April and May as infield operation
would cause too much damage to both field and cane stubble. The cane would
be burnt prior to harvesting. As this operation may be hazardous under cer-
tain conditions, the burning of outgrowers fields would be conducted under
the supervision of the companies' staff. In order to avoid deliberate burning
by farmers so as to obtain a quicker return, payment for delivered cane would
be effected taking into account the due date. Burning of standing cane has
the advantage of offering an easier task for the cane cutter as well as
eliminating one field operation which is trash raking after harvest. The
harvesting operation would be conducted by a gang of cutters, 5-7 working
together each along adjacent lines, each cutting a line at a time and, instead
of stacking it, windrowing it on the central row. Depending on cane yield 5-7
lines would be windrowed together to be pushpiled and grabloaded mechanically.
The cutting capacity is estimated at 3 t/day per laborer for burnt cane and
1.0 t/day per laborer for green cane.
B. Handling and Transport of Cane
Existing Cane Handling and Transport
5.        Except for Chemelil, where Cameco SP3000 cane loaders are in use,
the Project factories manually load cane into transport units. Cane is trans-
por.ted by tractor and trailer, trucks or rail to the factories. Because of
the different methods of loading, either crosswise or lengthwise and the
various types and construction of the transportation units several systems for
unloading cane are installed at the factories.
6.        At Miwani, cane is manually loaded into tractor and trailer units,
trucks or narrow gauge rail cars. The trailer units and trucks are unloaded
by gantry cranes or winches and the rail cars are tipped directly into the



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
cane carrier. At Chemelil, nucleus estate cane is mechanically loaded into
trailers and bundled with chain slings for unloading by gantry cranes. Out-
growers cane is manually loaded and transported by trailers or trucks. The
units are unloaded by winches or gantry cranes depending on their construc-
tion and method of loading. Muhoroni's cane is manually loaded into trailers
and trucks. Unloading is by a gantry crane or mobile cranes with grabs. At
Ramisi, small bundles of about 20 sticks of cane are manually loaded into
trailers or trucks. The cane bundles are manually unloaded at the factory.
Proposed Cane Handling and Transport System
7.        The harvesting, loading, transport and unloading of cane has to be
developed as coordinated and integrated systems to achieve effective results
in the individual operations.' A standardized system for cane handling and
transport would be established and developed over a period of several years
to replace the various systems presently in use. The existing transport
equipment would be adapted for use in the new system. The basic components
and parameters of the new cane handling and transport system would include:
(i) two 8 hour shift operations to increase utilization of
available equipment instead of the present single shift
operation;
(ii) mechanized cane loading to permit two shift operations,
improve turnaround time of transport units, and release
labor for cane cutting;
(iii) cane piling into windrows for mechanical loading instead
of stacking or bundling to further reduce labor require-
ments for loading;
(iv) chain slings to unload bundled cane from the transport
units;
(v) improvements in the factory cane yard to minimize
queuing time for weighing and unloading; and
(vi) organization and coordination of all cane harvesting,
loading and transport by the factories' Agricultural
Department.
8.        The weighted average one-way cane transport distance for the fac-
tories was taken at 8 km in the Nyanza Sugar Belt and 10 km at Ramisi.  Cane
harvesting would be organized simultaneously in both near and distant fields
so that the available transport equipment would be adequate to handle the
daily factory cane requirements. About 25% of the cane supplies to Miwani
and Chemelil would continue to be transported by large farmers who operate
their own equipment. The availability of cane transport by large farmers



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
and others was discounted by 50% to insure that adequate numbers of factory-
owned units would be available in the future. Some private transporters are
expected to leave the cane transport business as the profit margins would be
reduced under the Project because the factories would base their charges to
only recover their costs for the services.
9.        All cane would be mechanically loaded by cane loaders.  Cane would
be transported in new 8 t capacity trailers or existing trailers and trucks
converted if necessary and fitted with chain slings. Winching tractors would
be available to assist the transport units in the fields. The costs of equip-
ment for cane transport and loading are shown in Annex 11, Tables 5-8.
November 1, 1978



- 88 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Training
1.        In view of the planned expansion of the sugar industry, it is
necessary to create a systematic and comprehensive training program to satisfy
future manpower requirements. The most critical need in the industry is for
training in all aspects of sugarcane production.
Coordination at the National Level
2.        The amended authority for the Kenya Sugar Authority (Annex 1)
includes a new position of Training Officer, financed under the South Nyanza
Sugar project. The duties of this position are to coordinate with Government
Ministries, training officers of sugar companies and institutions of education
and training. Government had agreed under the South Nyanza project that KSA
will prepare a sugar industry training program by December 31, 1978 to meet
the industry's long-term manpower requirements. That project also provides
for overseas training of three students each in business administration and
sugar technology during the period 1977-81.
Formal Training for the Sugar Industry
3.        The agricultural training institutions, i.e. Nairobi University,
Egerton College and the Embu and Bukura Institutes of Agriculture, do not
provide special courses in sugarcane production, and cane is one of many
crops covered in a generalized program for agriculture students. To effect-
ively cater to the special needs of the sugar industry it is proposed under
the Project to establish a training center for sugarcane agronomists at the
National Sugar Research Institute (NSRI), Kibos (Annex 6). A new building
would be constructed at Kibos with six dormitory rooms, a lecture room and
kitchen/dini-ng room facilities, and a vehicle would be provided. Selected
existing senior staff would be sent abroad for training (para 4) and, upon
their return, would formulate and implement a training program together
with the Director of NSRI and the Training Officer of KSA. The program
would basically consist of a course of 3-4 months for 12-15 participants,
given once a year. The participants would be selected from the agricultural
staff of the sugar companies, extension staff of the Ministry of Agriculture,
personnel of the cooperative movement and the staff of Farmer Training
Centers. A fee, covering food and lodging, would be charged. The first
course would be organized in 1980. The cost of constructing the building,
training existing staff and engaging visiting lecturers is included in Annex
11, Table 32. It is anticipated that senior staff from the sugar companies
would actively participate in the training program as guest instructors. The
training center would also be used for extension activities to be undertaken
at Kibos.



- 89 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The immediate task in developing a local training capability in
Kenya and preparing counterpart staff for expatriate research personnel
is to train Kenyan research scientists in a country with high scientific
standards and where the sugar industry still employs a large labor force.
The University of Mauritius and the Sugar Research Institute in Mauritius,
which offer short-term courses in sugarcane agronomy, would be suitable
institutions for this purpose. The courses would be of 4-6 months duration
and concentrate on sugarcane husbandry and field trial methodology. To
the extent that Mauritius is unable to accommodate the Kenyan requirements,
alternative overseas locations would be chosen in consultation with the
Bank. During the first two years of the overseas agricultural training
program, NSRI would train a plant breeder, a plant pathologist, and an
extension/training agronomist in order to counterpart the expatriate staff
at Kibos and the Mtwapa station. Thereafter, one trainee per year would be
sent for the following three years of the Project, bringing the total NSRI
staff with overseas training to six (Table 1).
Training of Company Staff
5.        The four companies rely on university graduates for potential
senior management staff, who are then given on-the-job training and advance
through experience. Many senior management positions in all companies are
currently filled by expatriates who are supervising and training Kenyan
counterparts. With the proposed expansion under the Project, additional
senior staff would be required in agriculture to manage the outgrowers produc-
tion and improve the companies'agronomic expertise. Few additional positions
would be created in departments other than agriculture.
6.        Agricultural Personnel.  All of the Project sugar companies would
be training additional personnel needed to fill positions in their expanded
Agriculture Departments. The senior agronomist, the nucleus estate manager
and the outgrower manager for each company, i.e. 12 persons including existing
and newly hired staff, would be the first to get overseas training for 4-6
months similar to the NSRI staff (para 4). This training would be phased over
a five-year period and includes 13 additional people for replacements.
7.        Senior field extension superintendents of the Agriculture Depart-
ments would be sent abroad for training, preferably at the CDC Training Center
in Swaziland; a total of 27 candidates would attend a 3-month course over the
6-year period. Another 21 field superintendents would be trained at the Kibos
NSRI training center when the training program starts there in 1980 (para 3).
The costs for overseas and local agricultural training of company personnel
are included in the companies' agricultural component, Annex 11, Tables 9-12.



- 90 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Overseas training of agricultural personnel is also required
for other sugar zones in the country. To fill this requirement, the Kenya
Sugar Authority would send a total of seven senior agronomists overseas,
starting in 1979, to participate in the same program as NSRI staff (para 4).
KSA would also sponsor training for field extension personnel in Swaziland
or comparable location; starting in 1979, four trainees per year would be
sent for a period of four years. Project costs are shown in Annex 11,
Table 33.
9.        Factory Personnel.  Some training of factory technicians is current-
ly being undertaken, particularly at Chemelil and Muhoroni where expatriate
managers are training counterpart personnel under the terms of their manage-
ment agreements. In-house training of lower-level personnel is not well
organized but has contributed to raising skill levels to at least minimum
acceptable standards. Factory performance statistics clearly indicate,
however, that the factories operate below internationally accepted standards
of efficiency and that deficiencies in the quality of personnel at all levels
are a major contributing factor to this. The upgrading of factory staff must
be, therefore, a major long-run objective for the companies. The upgrading
process can only be gradual and relatively slow as there are virtually no
other suitable staff resources in the country that the companies could draw on
and, importantly, there are no specialized training programs for factory
operation to which employees can be sent. The companies would thus improve
their training programs within the overall scope of staff development through
organization of more effective internal courses and apprenticeship training,
accompanied by a systematic selection process for training candidates.
Courses to be attended at an Industrial Training Center for vocational
skills would be part of the training programs.
10.       Improvements at the middle and senior management levels in the
factories would be a combination of efforts, including replacing incumbents
with better qualified staff to the limited extent possible, engaging addi-
tional staff where appropriate, providing opportunities for existing staff to
gain experience through visits of sugar factories abroad, and creating per-
formance incentive systems in cooperation with KSA. Proposals for replace-
ments and hiring of new staff would be part of the plan to be prepared by the
companies and submitted to KSA for approval (Annex 9). Major cost implica-
tions are not expected from these proposals. Several key factory staff
members would be selected annually to visit efficiently operated sugar fac-
tories abroad at an estimated cost of KShs 25,000 per staff member. Several
factories would be visited by each group for 3-4 days of discussion in each
factory. Detailed cost estimates are included in the Project's factory
component, shown in Annex 11, Tables 24-27.
11.       The KSA would assist in stimulating performance incentives through
various measures. It would, on a monthly basis, publish key industry statis-
tics for all sugar companies in Kenya. The Project would provide adequate
laboratory facilities for the factories, and standard laboratory procedures
would be adopted. This would enable the companies to provide the required



- 91 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
statistical information to KSA for publication. Wide exposure of well-
established performance indicators would be an incentive for company manage-
ment to increase their performance. In an effort to achieve better results,
the companies would be able to avail themselves of advisory services pro-
vided by KSA's sugar technologist free of charge.
Training of Cooperative Staff
12.       The Ministry of Cooperatives is providing training for cooperative
union personnel and for society managers. As the main training center, the
Cooperative College, has more applicants then places in its training courses,
it is recommended that short-term training courses for society managers be
conducted in the Sugar Belt. The courses should be for a 2-week period,
covering cooperative organization and management, bookkeeping and credit
supervision.
December 20, 1977



- 92 -                                  ANNEX 8
Table 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Training
Schedule of Industry Staff to be Trained 1/
(Number of Persons)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5            TOTAL
A. DETAILED BREAKDOWN
The National Sugar Research Institute
Agricultural Training 2/ 3/                  2          1          1          1          1              6
The Kenya Sugar Authority 4/
Agricultural Training 2/                    --          1          2          2          2              7
Extension Training 5/                       --          4          4          4          4             16
The Sugar Companies
Agricultural Training 2/ 6/
Miwani                                     2          1          1          1          2              7
Chemelil                                   1          1          1          2          1              6
Muhoroni                                   1          1          2          1          1              6
Ramisi                                     1          2          1          1          1              6
Extension Training 6/
Abroad 5/
Miwani                                   1          2          1          2          1              7
Chemelil                                1           1          2          1          1             6
Muhoroni                                 1          2          1          2          1              7
Ramisi                                   2          1          2          1          1              7
Local 7/
Miwani                                 --         --           2          2          2              6
Chemelil                               --         --           2          2          1             5
Muhoroni                               --         --           2          1          2             5
Ramisi                                 --         --           1          2          2             5
Factory Excursions 8/
Miwani                                   --           2          3          2          2              9
Chemelil                                  --         --          1          2          2              5
Muhoroni                                  --         --          1          2          2              5
Ramisi                                                2          3          3          2            1a
Total Staff Receiving Training   12            21         33          34         31           131
B. SUMMARY
Agricultural Training                        7          7                     R3
Extension Training, Abroad                   5         10         10         10          8             43
Extension Training, Local                   --         --          7          7           7            21
Factory Excursions                          --          4          8          9          8             29
Total                               12         21         33         34          31           131
1/  Excluding three scholarships each in business administration and sugar technology provided
under the South Nyanza project.
2/  Course of 4-6 months in Mauritius or similar other country.
3/  For costs see Annex 11, Table 32.
4/  For costs see Annex 11, Table 33.
5/  Three-month course at CDC Training Center, Swaziland or similar institution.
6/  For costs see Annex 11, Tables 9 - 12,
7/ At new training center, Kibos (Annex 18., para. 3).
8/ For costs see Annex 11, Tables 24 - 27.
December 9, 1977



- 93 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Expansion of Sugar Factories
1.        The factory component of the proposed Project would include the
rehabilitation of existing factories and expansion of production capacity
for three sugar factories. The existing conditions and capacities of the
factories are discussed in Annex 3.
Factory Capacity
2.        The proposed capacities of the Project sugar factories based on
projected annual cane supplies are as follows:
Proposed Capacity of Project Factories
Projected Average Annual   Required Factory         Rated Factory
Factory            Cane Supply        a/       Capacity   b/          Capacity
(tons)                   (TCD)            (TCH) c/ (TCD)
Miwani                 569,000                   2,188             100      2,200
Chemelil               590,000                   2,269             105      2,300
Muhoroni               620,000                   2,385             109      2,400
Ramisi                 402,000                   1,546              70      1,550
a/   From Annex 6.
b/   Based on 260 milling days per year.
c/   Nominal factory capacity, tons cane per hour.
The capacity of the Miwani factory would be increased by 10% to 2,200 tons
canq per day (TCD). The present 2,300 TCD capacity of the Chemelil factory
is adequate to handle its projected cane supply. Muhoroni's factory capacity
would be increased by 20% to 2,400 TCD. The present Ramisi factory capacity
would be increased by 55% to 1,550 TCD. Because the Chemelil factory has
recently been rehabilitated and expanded to 2,300 TCD and is in good condi-
tion, it is not included in the factory component of the Project.



- 94 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Milling Season
3.        The proposed milling season covers 44 weeks with eight weeks
during the rainy season as the annual off-season period. Equipment
overhaul and maintenance would be carried out during the off-season
period. A weekly factory shutdown of one day duration is scheduled
for routine cleaning and maintenance and repair of equipment. The
total annual factory operating days would be 260 days based on the
following assumption:
Proposed Milling Season
Annual Gross Time                     52 weeks
Off-Season Period                      8 weeks
Milling Season                        44 weeks
Available Days                       308 days
Scheduled Stops a!                    43 days
Holidays b/                            5 days
Operating Days                       260 days
a/ Based on one day per week for repairs
and maintenance.
b/ Assumes that 50% of holidays would be
arranged as scheduled stops.
The expanded factory capacities and related proposed investments are
based on 260 operating days per year and 22 net milling hours per day.
Manufacturing Process
4.        The double sulphitation process to produce a direct consumption
white sugar would be installed in the three Project factories. With good
process control and operating practices, the factories would be capable
of manufacturing sugar which meets current Kenya sugar standards. The
Miwani and Ramisi factories already use the double sulphitation process.
Muhoroni uses the defecation-melt process and are presently commissioning
equipment for the melt-sulphitation process to produce a high quality white
sugar. It has been assumed that the melt-sulphitation process would not
be retained for the Project; otherwise, new melt-treatment and sugar boiling
equipment would be required to increase production capacity for the pro-
posed factory throughput. The existing equipment has ample capacity to
handle the projected production rate for the double sulphitation process.



- 95 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
Scope of Rehabilitation and Expansion
5.        The Project's factory component would include (a) rehabilitation
of the existing equipment and facilities to upgrade performance and ensure
long-term operational reliability and (b) expansion to increase production
capacity. The Project costs reflect the current condition of the individual
factories and the scale of their proposed expansions. Most work would be
required for the Ramisi factory. Least work would be required for the
Muhoroni factory which has recently undergone a rehabilitation and expansion
program. Muhoroni's work would be limited to eliminating production bottle-
necks and upgrading ancillary services and facilities. The work requirements
for the Miwani factory would be in between those for Ramisi and Muhoroni.
6.        Cane Receiving and Storage.  Cane unloading for the Project cane
transport units would be standardized to chain slings. Cane bundled with
chain slings would be lifted from the road transport units by gantry cranes.
Gantry cranes would be installed at the three Project factories for handling
chain-slinged cane bundles. With mechanical loading of cane in the fields,
cane would be delivered during two of the three shifts. Adequate cane storage
for the night shift would be accommodated under the gantry cranes.
7.        Miwani's existing gantry structures would be extended and a 10 t
capacity bridge crane would be installed to handle the additional throughput.
The existing rail car receiving and unloading facilities would be rehabili-
tated to handle cane transported from the nucleus estate. Muhoroni's existing
gantry structures would be reinforced and two 10 t capacity travelling bridge
cranes would be installed. A new gantry structure with 10 t capacity travel-
ling bridge crane would be installed over the outside feeder table to free
the two existing mobile cranes for use as mechanical loaders in the field.
Ramisi's existing cane receiving and storage facilities would be replaced
by a gantry with two 10 t capacity travelling bridge cranes and a feeder
table.
8.        Cane Handling and Preparation.  Cane preparation would be improved
at the three Project factories. Miwani's existing gruendler shredder for the
Mirrless tandem would be modified and repowered and the existing cane knives
rehabilitated. Muhoroni's cane preparation would be improved by installing
a heavy duty shredder. Ramisi's existing knife set would be replaced by two
heavy duty knife sets.
9.        Milling Station.  Roller groovings and mill settings would be
designed to maximize extraction performance with the improved cane prepara-
tion and higher imbibition water levels. Imbibition systems would be
rehabilitated to operate at levels of 200% on fiber. Ramisi's bagasse
diffuser would be commissioned and would operate with two pre-extraction
mills and two dewatering mills. The existing fifth mill would be removed
and the steam engine would be replaced by two steam turbine units each
driving two rehabilitated mills.



- 96 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
10.       Juice Treatment and Evaporation.  Juice from the mills would be
weighed and pumped through juice heaters for primary heating to about 70 C
before passing to continuous juice sulphitors. Juice pH would be raised to
about 9 to 10 by milk of lime and then adjusted with sulphur dioxide gas to
about 7.2 to 7.5 pH. The treated juice would be heated in secondary juice
heaters to 1030C and settled in clarifiers. The clear overflow juice from
the clarifiers would be screened and would pass to the evaporators for con-
centration into syrup. The syrup would be pumped through the syrup sulphitor
where pH would be adjusted to about 6.2 before pumping to the pan storage
tanks. The underflow mud from the clarifiers would be desugared by rotary
vacuum filters and the by-product filter cake would be transported to the
fields for plowing into plant fields.
11.       The bulk of Miwani's and Muhoroni's work for the juice treatment
and evaporation plant would consist of rehabilitating and upgrading existing
equipment and facilities. Ramisi's existing juice treatment and evaporation
plant would substantially be replaced by new equipment. The major items to
be installed include juice and syrup sulphitation equipment, a clarifier,
rotary vacuum filter, juice heater and a quadruple effect evaporator set.
12.       Sugar Boiling and Crystallization.  The three-boiling-system would
be used for sugar boiling. The variations of the system used by the three
factories would be retained because of the existing equipment arrangements
and layouts. Additional low grade crystallizer capacity and modification
of existing crystallizers from air-cooled to water-cooled units would be
accomplished to handle the increased production rates and improve molasses
exhaustion. Muhoroni's low grade crystallizer capacity is ample to handle
the projected throughput. Additional crystallizers would be installed at
Miwani and the existing units would be upgraded to water-cooled units.
Ramisi's sugar boiling and crystallization stations would be improved
substantially by the installation of three vacuum pans and six water-cooled
crystallizers.
13.       Centrifugal Station.  Centrifugal stations would be equipped with
modern automatic batch centrifugals to handle A and B massecuites and con-
tinuous centrifugals for C massecuites. The existing equipment at Miwani
and Muhoroni is adequate for the projected throughput. Two automatic batch
centrifugals would be installed at Ramisi to provide additional capacity
and standby capacity.
14.       Sugar Packing and Storage.  All sugar would be packed in 100 kg
net weight bags. The factories generally have limited storage capacities
in sugar bins and for bagged sugar in the factory. Sugar would be packed
in two or three shifts as necessary and transferred immediately to the
bagged sugar warehouse. Additional bagged sugar warehouse capacity and
molasses storage capacity was not included in the Project because of the
pending studies by KSA. KSA will prepare a plan for improvement of sugar



- 97 -
ANNEX 9
Page 5
marketing and distribution and conduct a study of molasses utilization by
December 31, 1978. 1/ Sugar and molasses production from the Project factor-
ies would not increase significantly until the early 1980's. The existing
sugar storage capacities at their projected throughputs range from four days
at Miwani, 10 days at Ramisi and up to 16 days at Muhoroni. Molasses
storage capacities would be adequate for two days at Ramisi, four days at
Miwani and 10 days at Chemelil.
15.       Ramisi trucks its molasses productin daily to Mombasa.  Additional
transport capacity would be required for Ramisi. Molasses is transported by
rail tank cars from the factories in the Nyanza Sugar Belt to Mombasa for
export. With the completion of the petroleum pipeline between Mombasa and
Nairobi, additional tank cars would be available in Kenya for transporting
molasses.
16.       Steam and Power Generation.  The factories now use substantial
quantities of firewood and fuel oil to supplement bagasse firing in their
boilers. This is partly due to the frequent slowdowns and shutdowns caused
by inadequate cane supplies and poorly organized deliveries. It is also
due to inefficient boiler operations and inadequate equipment. The operations
are characterized by substantial use of cold water, excessive leakage of air,
insufficient bagasse storage, inadequate instrumentation and other defici-
encies which result in low efficiencies.
17.       The Project would include work to improve boiler efficiencies and
reduce supplementary fuel requirements. The factory condensate collection
and storage facilities would be rehabilitated to provide oil-free and sugar-
free condensates for boiler feedwater. Ancillary systems would be rehabil-
itated to allow better combustion-control. Bagasse storage and handling
facilities would be rehabilitated and expanded to provide continuous and
uniform bagasse feed to the boilers. Muhoroni's present steam and power
generation capacity is adequate for the projected production rates. A new
25 t/hr boiler would be installed at Miwani. A new 40 t/hr boiler and a
1,000 kw turbogenerat2r would be installed at Ramisi. Ramisi's new boiler
operating at 21 kg/cm  and the existing 18 t/hr boiler would have ample         2
capacity for the projected throughput to replace the two existing 10.5 kg/cm
boilers.
18.       Ancillary Services and Facilities.  Existing ancillary equipment
wouldcbe rehabilitated to ensure their operational reliability and additional
equipment and facilities would be installed as necessary to handle the pro-
jected throughputs. Laboratory equipment would be provided. The present
factory laboratories are poorly equipped to provide the information necessary
1/   These studies are recommended under the South Nyanza Sugar Project and
Government gave an assurance that the studies would be undertaken with
funds provided under that Project.



- 98 -
ANNEX 9
Page 6
for good factory operations, process control and support of the agricultural
operations. A list of standard laboratory equipment is shown in Table 1.
Cost of Factory Rehabilitation and Expansion
19.       The costs of the proposed factory rehabilitation and expansion are
summarized in Annex 11, Table 21-23. The total cost, including contingencies,
would be KSHs 39.8 million for Miwani, KShs 20.6 million for Muhoroni and
KShs 109.2 million for Ramisi. The costs are based on price estimates for
September 1978. Foreign costs are c.i.f. Mombasa and include a physical
contingency of 10%. A physical contingency of 15% is applied to local costs
because detailed engineering studies were not available for the individual
factories.
Implementation of Factory Rehabilitation and Expansion
20.        The factory rehabilitation and expansion would be implemented over
a period of five years for Miwani and Muhoroni and six years for Ramisi as
shown in Charts World Bank 17566, 17567, and 17568. It would require detailed
organization, engineering and planning for successful implementation. Impor-
tantly, the work would have to be planned and coordinated so that the factory
could continue its production operations. Much of the rehabilitation work
could only be accomplished during the off-season period. While a two-month
off-season period is recommended during normal operation, it is suggested
that harvesting schedules and cane deliveries be organized by the individual
factories during the implementation years to permit a longer off-season period.
The factories presently have adequate capacity to process the annual crop in
a shorter period of time, especially during the early cane development years.
21.        Implementation would be the responsibility of the factories' staff.
They would carry out the detailed design engineering work and submit a plan
for technical approval by KSA before proceeding with procurement and construc-
tion; KSA approval would be a condition of loan disbursement. Funds are in-
cluded in the Project for consultancy services to assist KSA in evaluating
and approving the plans submitted by the individual factories. This would
be in addition to one internationally recruited sugar technologist to be
appointed by KSA by January 1, 1978 under the provisions of the South
Nyanza Project. KSA would be reimbursed by the factories for all expenses
related to dispensing advice on and approving of the factories' detailed
rehabilitation plan. The factory plan would include the following
information:
(i) detailed material and energy balances and flow diagrams
for the factory;
(ii) technical specifications for equipment and materials to
be procured;
(iii) technical specifications for equipment to be rehabilitated;



- 99 -
ANNEX 9
Page 7
(iv) layout drawings of the equipment and facilities;
(v)  detailed schedule for implementing the Project, including
manpower and equipment requirements;
(vi) detailed cost estimates; and
(vii) factory organization for Project implementation.
Procurement would be handled by the individual factories. International
competitive bidding procedures would be used except for replacement parts
and items costing less than US$100,000. The factories would undertake
most of the construction work for the Project with their own personnel.
In some cases, Miwani and Muhoroni might have to use contractors because
of time constraints or the special nature of the work. Ramisi would depend
somewhat more on contractors because of the magnitude of the projected work
load.
Factory Staffing
22.       Staffing at the Project factories is adequate and would be main-
tained at current levels. The higher production rates would not require new
workmen.  In some instances, workmen would be reassigned to other jobs.
Training of production personnel to operate new equipment and process would
be carried out by the factory staff. The workmen all have sugar factory
experience and adapting to the new equipment and processes would be easier
than training inexperienced personnel (Annex 8).
Environmental Impact and Safety
23.       The Project sugar factories are presently installing facilities
to comply with Government regulations for factory effluents. The plans for
the the treatment plants which usually consist of a series of ponds must be
approved by an officer of the Ministry of Health before construction. The
treated water is used for irrigation or is returned to rivers. Health
officers periodically take samples and advise the factory of the results.
24.       The Factories Act covers safety, health and welfare requirements
for workmen in Kenya sugar factories. The Act is enforced by the Chief
Inspector of Factories in the Ministry of Labor. Accidents and injuries
in the factories are reported monthly to the Office of the Chief Inspector.
The rehabilitation and expansion work in the Project factories would comply
with the requirements of the Factories Act. An assurance would be obtained
at negotiations that Project work would be implemented and facilities and
equipment operated with due concern for environmental and safety factors.
December 20, 1977



- 100 -
ANNEX 9
Table 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Standard Equipment List 1/ 2/
Item                      Cost
(KShs.)
Colorimeter                    10,000
Spectrophotometer              90,000
Flame Photometer              100,000
Analytical Balance             12,000
Deep Freeze                     9,000
Distillation Unit               1,200
Refrigerator                    6,000
Microscope                     40,000
2 Ovens, Large                    6,000
2 Ovens, Medium                   4,000
Muffle Furnace                  3,000
Water Bath                        600
2 Balances                        7,000
Hot Plates, Small                 600
Hot Plates, Large                 400
3 Desiccators                     3,000
Bottle Shaker                     900
Kjeldhal Apparatus              2,000
Zeiss Refractometer            23,000
Hydrometer                        900
1 Saccharimeter                   9,000
Wet Disintegrator               4,000
Sieves for Soils                  900
Jeffco Shredder                 6,000
Bagasse Press                   5,000
Glassware                      25,000
Chemicals                      15,000
384,500
1/ The Project would provide selected equipment
items from this list as required by individual
factories.
2/ Factory capital equipment items to be procured
are listed in Annex 11, Tables 21-23.
November 6, 1978



- 101 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads, Housing and Other Facilities
A. Roads
1.        Since 1960 the Government of Kenya has carried out a staged program
of road development with Bank/IDA and other international assistance. The
South Nyanza Sugar Project includes a road component amounting to US$9 million.
Two of the previous loans 1/ covered the construction of two phases of main
sugar roads and of feeder and field-access roads, and a third supported
the construction of roads at Mumias. 2/ Another Credit 3/ was designed to
assist the Ministry of Works (MOW) in assuring highway maintenance.
Present Situation
2.        Nyanza Sugar Belt.  The tarmac surfaced primary road, C-34, 61 km
long, links the international trunk road, A-1, (Kisii-Kisumu-Kakamega) with
the national trunk road, B1 (Ahero-Kericho-Senetwet Bridge). This road passes
through the Sugar Belt, parallel to the Kisumu-Nairobi railway line, and is
the main road access to the three sugar factories in the Sugar Belt. In
addition, there are 203 km of MOW gravel surfaced (primary, secondary and
minor) Class C, D and E roads and 693 km of Class S (farm-to-mill sugarcane
transport) roads. Of these, 302 km are major feeder roads and the remainder
are field access tracks. In addition, there are 119 km of unclassified roads
on the three nucleus estates, 134 km on large farms and 55 km in smallholder
areas. These are mostly unsurfaced, dirt roads. The Class S roads are gravel
surfaced with a 5.5 m running course, 1.25 m shoulders and (theoretically)
2.75 m wide drains. Upkeep of all roads has been poor because the MOW Pro-
vincial Roads Department maintenance budget is insufficient to keep existing
maintenance equipment operating or to allow the hire of plant from contractors.
1/   1967 Credit 104-KE, Sugar Road Engineering and Construction
1969 Loan 639-KE, Third Highway Project.
2/   1973 Loan 141a-KE, Fifth Highway Project.
3/   1970 Credit 224-KE, Strengthening and Improvement of Highway Maintenance.



- 102 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.        Ramisi.  The international tarmac surfaced trunk road A-14 (Mombasa-
Tanga) traverses the area and, west and north of the nucleus estate, there is
a gravel surfaced primary road, C-108 (Mrima-Kikoneni-Galu). Several Class D
and E roads link the two main roads. No classified roads have been con-
structed in the area specifically for cane transport. Upkeep of the Class D
and E roads has been poor and the surface of these roads is generally bad.
Project Proposals
4.        The Project components for roads would comprise tarmac surfacing
of some existing Class D and E roads and of factory entrance roads; up-
grading of Class D, E, and major Class S roads and of unclassified roads
in smallholder areas; new construction of unclassified feeder and access
roads and access tracks; and provision of road maintenance plant.
5.        Tarmac surfacing would require scarifying, shaping and compacting
the existing 5.5 m carriageway and 1.25 m shoulders and reforming the existing
drains. The surface would then be prlpared and a cutback bitumen prime coat
applied at a rate of 0.85 to 1.10 1/m . After brushing, two seal coats f
80/100 penetration bitumen would be applied at a rate of 1.0 to 1.67 lm m
Twenty mm (finished thickness) of chippings, applied at a rate of 59 m /m ,
would be rolled into the first coat and 12 mm (finished), applied at a rate of
83 m /m , would be rolled into the second.  The shoulders would be sealed with
a hot bituminous seal into which 3 mm nominal size chippings would be rolled.
Factory entrance roads, except at Ramisi, would be reconstructed to MOW
standard bitumen II (2).
6.        Upgrading all roads would consist of scarifying, shaping and com-
pacting the existing carriageway, widening to 5.5 m where required and
reforming or excavating 2.5 m vee drains, 0.5 m deep, outside the 1.25 m
shoulders. Fifteen cm (finished thickness) of compacted gravel running
course would be placed on the reformed sub-base.
7.        New gravel roads would be constructed to MOW gravel road standards
(Table 1) with a 5.5 m carriageway, 1.25 m shoulders, and drains as described
in para. 6. The sub-base would consist of 20 cm of compacted random material
and the running course of 15 cm of compacted gravel. Bridges and culverts
would be constructed to a loading criterion of 2/3 B5 153 HA loading.
8.        Access Tracks would be constructed in the outgrowers area, where
necessary, by opening up the track with a bulldozer, shaping up the formation
with a motor grader and forming vee and miter drains.



- 103 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3
9.        Projet operations in the four sugar zones are summarized below:
Nyanza Sugar Belt
Miwani  Chemelil  Muhoroni  Subtotal   Ramisi   Total
--------------------------km-------------------------
Factory Entrance             1        0.5        1          2.5       --        2.5
Tarmac Surfacing            15        8          1         24         --       24
Upgrading, D & E Class      38       47         94        179          --     179
Upgrading, S Class           5        4          9         18         --       18
Upgrading, Smallholder
Area                       7       --         --          7          12      19
New Construction, Small-
holder Area               31        5         48         84         33      117
New Construction, Large
Farm Area                 --        7          9         16         31       47
New Construction, Access
Tracks                    66       49         85        200         71      271
Bridges and Crossings        1       --          2          3         --        3
Project Costs
10.       Project capital costs are based on an analysis of contract rates
made by MOW Roads Department and issued in 1976. The rates have been updated
to September 1978 (Table 2). Total costs, excluding price contingencies, are
estimated at KShs. 60.8 million (Table 3). Detailed estimates are given in
Annex 11, Table 29.
11.       Maintenance would be required for already existing as well as newly
constructed roads with total lengths to be maintained as follows (details
Table 4):
Miwani     Chemelil      Muhoroni    Ramisi    Total
-------____________----km------------------
Classified
Tarmac                     15            8           1            --       24
D and E Class              38           47          94            56      235
S Class                    91          120          91            12      314
Unclassified
Factory Entrance            1           0.5          1            --        2.5
Nucleus Estates            47          46           26            57      176
Smallholder Areas          63          12           64           57       196
Large Farm Areas           49          59           42            31      181
Access Tracks             203          191         197           100      691



- 104 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4
Tarmac surfaced roads would be resealed every year. Gravel road maintenance
would consist annually of patching and grading plus a second round of patch-
ing and grading with compaction. Roads would be regravelled every fourth
year. Total annual maintenance costs at full development (Year 7) would
amount to KShs 14.7 million, excluding price contingencies, of which
KShs 2.9 million would be incremental costs resulting from the Project
(Table 5).
Organization and Management
12.       Road works to be executed under the Project would be the overall
responsibility of the MOW Roads Department. Since the Department's con-
struction units are fully committed at present the works would be carried
out under contracts let by the MOW. The Department would either carry
out the necessary surveys and designs, prepare tender documents, and supervise
construction using its own staff or, which is more likely, would appoint
consultants for the purpose. To synchronize road construction with agricul-
tural development and establish maintenance expertise early on, MOW would
delegate responsibility for the construction and upgrading of factory entrance
roads, access tracks and all other unclassified roads in smallholder areas
(KShs. 22.6 million, excluding price contingencies) to the sugar companies.
The companies would undertake some construction with equipment provided under
the Project (para. 14) and contract for the remainder with local contractors.
13.       Procurement of equipment for the sugar companies (primarily for
maintenance) would be by international competitive bidding. There are suffi-
cient experienced local contractors to carry out the road works required but
international competitive bidding procedures would be used in letting tenders
for major contracts. Minor contracts under the responsibility of the sugar
companies would be advertised locally.
14.       The MOW Roads Department is unable to maintain the roads in the
sugar zones satisfactorily. Therefore, maintenance would in the future be
carried out by sugar companies using equipment purchased under the Project
for this purpose (Table 6). Each factory would be responsible to the MOW
Provincial Engineer for maintaining the roads in its zone. Maintenance
would be paid for directly from a levy fund administered by the KSA (Annex 7,
para. 18 and Annex 16). The MOW Provincial Engineer would be responsible for
certifying that road maintenance had been carried out satisfactorily before
any disbursement would be made to the factories from the levy fund.
15.       The capital cost of works for all public roads would be borne by
Government. The cost of private roads on large farms and the nucleus estates
would be borne by the respective owners.



- 105 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5
B. Housing and other Facilities
16.       Additional staff housing would be required to (a) accommodate addi-
tional staff to be employed under the Project, (b) eliminate the shortage of
housing that presently exists, and (c) replace some inadequate existing units.
Provision of housing by the sugar companies is required under Kenyan law and
would be essential for economic and social reasons to enable the companies to
attract and retain the required factory and field labor. It has been increas-
ingly difficult to hire cane cutters, particularly in Ramisi, and inadequate
housing has been one of the main reasons.
17.       The Project would provide a total of 3,221 housing units of seven
different standards (Table 7). In the Sugar Belt the primary demand for
additional housing would arise from the companies' need to engage more perma-
nent field staff, except in Chemelil where there is a housing backlog for
semi-skilled staff. Of the total of 1,465 units proposed for Miwani,
Chemelil and Muhoroni, 74% would be Type F houses, the lowest permissible
standard for permanent employees. At Ramisi, unlike the Sugar Belt, a large
proportion of that company's casual field labor has to be hired under con-
tract from other parts of the country, relocated and temporarily housed. The
employment contracts are for several months to a year and are generally renew-
able. For this type of labor it is proposed to establish 1,680 low-standard
units to be distributed over a number of labor camps. The lower standard
would be acceptable as laborers generally would not live there permanently
and frequently have no dependents residing with them.
18.       The entire housing stock would be owned and maintained by the sugar
companies. A site-and-services approach to construction is not recommended
because of the legal implications and established practice concerning housing
for permanent company staff and, additionally, the transient type of laborers
to be accommodated at Ramisi. All housing units would be provided with
streets, lighting and water and sewerage facilities; furnishings would be
included for the higher-grade houses.
19.       In addition to staff housing the companies would construct other
buildings and facilities. A dispensary would be provided for Muhoroni and
Ramisi; a workers club and multi-purpose building for Muhoroni; and office
buildings, garages and storage and miscellaneous structures for Miwani,
Muhoroni and Ramisi.
20.       The total cost of housing and other buildings would be KShs 107
million (US$12.8 million), including price contingencies (Table 8). The
sugar companies would be responsible for implementation. Architectural
consulting firms would be appointed, either individually or jointly, by the
companies under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank/IDA to carry out
detailed design work and supervise construction. International competitive
bidding procedures would be used in awarding contracts for construction. To
the extent that this would be economically feasible contracts would be sub-



- 106 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6
divided and separately tendered for to enable a larger number of local
contractors to bid. The phasing of construction during Project Years 1-4
and detailed cost estimates are shown in Annex 11, Table 31.
July 7, 1978



- 107 -
ANNEX 10
Table 1
I..
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads
Highway Design Standards
1. Geometric -
Design Speed                                      (km/hr)         50
Minimum Horizontal Radius                           (m)          125
Maximum Gradient                                    (m)            8.50
Minimum Sight Stopping Distance                     (m)           60
Minimum Passing Sight Distance (Reduced)            (m)          200
2.  Cross Section k
Road Reserve                                        (m)           40
Pavement (Bitumen)                                  (m)            5.50
Surfacing Width (Gravell                            (m)           5,50
Shoulders (Each)                                    Cm)            1.25
3. Pavement Design Criteria
Heavy Vehicles per Day (Bitumen)                   (No.)          50
Heavy Vehicles per Day (Gravel)                    (No.)     0 - 50
MOW Design CBR Curve 3/                                          B
Bitumen Surface Thickness                          (mm)          20
Gravel Surface Thickness                           (mm)         150
Approximate Wheel Load                             (kg)       3,200
4.  Structures  2/3 of B.S 153 HA Loading
4.50 m between Kerbs
1/  Source - MOW Road Design Manual, November, 1970.
2/ Ad hoc standards may be adopted for special projects where
normal standards would involve uneconomic costs.
3/  Based on UK Road Research Laboratory design charts.
July 20, 1977



- 108 -                     ANNEX 10
Table 2
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads
Unit Rates for Road Construction
Average Application
Item                                      Rate            Unit    Rate       Unit Rate
(KShs,)  (KShs.'000/km)
A. Tarmac Surfacing
Scarify, Shape and Compact            0.975  1/m2        km    20,000        20.00
Prime Coat                            1.335  1/m2        m2      3.0         16.09
First Seal Coat  - Bitumen            0.017 m3/m2        m2      4.0         22.00
- Chippings         1,335  1/m2        m2      3.0         16.50
Second Seal Coat - Bitumen            0.012 m3/m2        m2      4.0         22.00
- Chippings                            m2      2,2         12.10
Seal Shoulders                                                   5.0         12.50
Total                                                            121.19 1/
B. Upgrading Existing Roads
Scarify, Shape and Compact                               k3    20,000        20.00
Gravelling (15 cm)                                      mi      25           20.62
Total                                                             40.62 2/
C. New Gravel Roads
Clear Site                                               ha      2.6          3.51
Strip Topsoil (20 cm)                                    m3      6.0          9.60
Form and Compact Sub-base (20 cm)                        m3     22.3         35.68
Gravelling (15 cm)                                       m3     25.0         20.62
Culverts                                                L.S.                 21.00
Total                                                             90.41 3/
D.  New Access Tracks                                         L.S.                 12.00
E.  Bridges                                                   L.S,                  9.00
1/  Used in evaluation:  KShs. 120,000/km.
2/  Used in evaluation:  KShs. 40,000/km.
3/ It has been assumed that this standard would apply to 75%
of the newly constructed roads and that the remaining 25%
would be constructed at a cost of KShs. 130,000/km; the
evaluation is thus based on a weighted average of KShs. 100,000/km.
July 20, 1977



- 109 -
KENYA                                         ANNEX 10
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT                               Table-3
Roads
Capital Costs
(KShs.'000)
Unit                                             Total
Cost     Miwani    Chemelil    Muhoroni    Sugar Belt    Ramisi    Total
A.  Ministry of Works' Responsibility
Tarmac Surfacing                                120     1,800         960          120         2,880         --        2,880
Upgrading, D and E Class                         40     1,520       1,880        3,760         7,160         --        7,160
Upgrading, S Class                               40        200        160          360           720         --          720
New Construction, Large Farm Area               100      --            700         900         1,600        3,100      4,700
Bridges and Crossings                                      900       --          2 200         3,100         --        3.100
Subtotal                     4,420      3,700        7,340        15,460        3,100    18,560
Engineering                                                442        370          734         1.546          310      1,856
Subtotal                    4,862       4,070        8,074        17,006        3,410    20,416
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                486         407         807         1,700           341     2,041
Subtotal                     5,348      4,477        8,881        18,706        3,751    22,457
Price Contingencies 1/                                   1,179       1,029       2,056          4,264          505     4,769
Total A                      6,527       5,506       10,937        22,970        4,256    27,226
B.  Sugar Companies' Responsibility
Factory Entrance                              1,200      1,200        600        1,200         3,000         --        3,000
Upgrading, Smallholder Area                      40        280       --           --              280         480        760
New Construction, Smallholder Area              100     3,100          500       4,800         8,400        3,300    11,700
New Construction, Access Tracks                  12        792         588       1,020         2,400           852     3,252
Subtotal                     5,372      1,688        7,020        14,080        4,632    18,712
Engineering                                                537        169           702        1,408          463      1,871
Maintenance Equipment 2/                                 3,235      3.235         44          10,890        3,380    14,270
Subtotal                    9,144       5,092       12,142        26,378        8,475    34,853
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                914         509       1,214         2,637           848     3,485
Subtotal                   10,058       5.601       13,356        29,015        9,323    38,338
Price Contingencies 1/                                  2,313         941        3,122         6,376        2,222      8,598
Total B                     12,371       6,542      16,478         35,391      11,545    46,936
C.  Summary A + B
Ministry of Works                                        4,862      4,070        8,074        17,006        3,410    20,416
Sugar Companies                                         5,909       1,857        7,722        15,488        5,095    20,583
Maintenance Equipment                                    3_235      3,235        4,420        10,890        3,380    14,270
Subtotal                    14,006      9,162       20,216        43,384       11,885    55,269
Physical Contingencies, 10%                              1.400         916       2,021         4,337        1.189      5,526
Subtotal                   15,406      10,078       22,237        47,721       13,074    60,795
Price Contingencies                                      3,492      1,970        5,178        10.640        2.727    13.367
Total                       18,898     12,048       27,415        58,361       15.801    74.162
1/ From Annex 11, Table 29.
2/ From Table 6.
July 20, 1977



- 110 -
ANNEX 10
KENYA                         Table 4
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads
Schedule of Road Length l/
(km)
Total
Miwani   Chemelil   Muhoroni   Sugar Belt   Ramisi    Total
Existing Roads
D and E Class             38         47         94           179         56        235
S Class                   91       120          91           302         12        314
Nucleus Estates 2/        47        46          26           119         57        176
Smallholder Areas 2/    32            7         16            55         24         79
Large Farm  Areas 2/    49          52          33           134         --        134
Access Tracks 3/         137       142         112           391         29        420
New Construction
Tarmac Surface to
Factory Entrance        1          0.5         1             2.5       --          2.5
Tarmac Surface to
Existing Roads         15          8           1            24         --         24
Smallholder Areas         31         5          48            84         33-       117
Large Farm Areas         --           7          9            16         31-        47
Access Tracks 4/          66        49          85           200         71        271
Total Future Lengths
Factory Entrance
(Tarmac)                1          0.5         1             2.5       --          2.5
D and E Class (Tarmac)  15           8           1            24         --         24
D and E Class (Gravel)  38          47          94           179         56        235
S Class                  91        120          91           302         12        314
Nucleus Estates           47        46          26           119         57        176
Smallholder Areas        63         12          64           139         57        196
Large Farm Areas          49        59          42           150         31        181
Access Tracks            203       191         197           591        100        691
Total         507       483.5       516         1,506.5      313      1,819.5
Total Road Length Per
Hectare Cane Area (m)   37.8        37.8        38.2          37.9       32.5       36.9
l/  Excludes the 61 km tarmac surfaced primary road, C-34.
2/  Standard varies; 4-5.5 m wide gravel course with 1.25-1.75 m shoulders.
3/  Dirt roads, 4 m wide.
4/  Length has been determined sothat eventual total length of access tracks
equals length of S Class roads plus other unclassified roads in small-
holder and large-farm areas.
July 20, 1977



- 111 -
ANNEX 10
KENYA                       Page 5
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads
Annual Maintenance Costs at Full Development
(KShs.'000)
Total
Unit Cost   Miwani   Chemelil   Muhoroni   Sugar Belt   Ramisi   Total
(KShs./km)
Existing Roads
D and E Class
(Gravel)             12,000         456       564      1128          2,148         672    2,820
S Class                 12,000        1,092    1,440       1,092          3,624         144    3,768
Nucleus Estates          10,000         470       460         260         1,190         570    1,760
Smallholder Areas        10,000         320        70         160           550         240       790
Large Farm Areas         10,000         490       520         330         1,340        --       1,340
Access Tracks               440          60        62          49           171          13       184
Subtotal Existing                2,888    3,116        3,019         9,023       1,639   10,662
New Roads
Factory Entrance
(Tarmac)               1/           120        60         120           300        --         300
D and E Class
(Tarmac)             12,000         180        96          12           288        --         288
Smallholder Areas        10,000         310        50         480           840         330    1,170
Large Farm Areas         10,000        --          70          90           160         310       470
Access Tracks               440          29        22          37            88          31       119
Bridges and Crossings    1/              90     --            220           310        --         310
Subtotal New                       729       298         959         1,986         671    2,657
Total Existing Plus
New Roads
Factory Entrance
(Tarmac) 2/            1/           120        60         120           300        --         300
D and E Class
(Tarmac) 3/          12,000         180        96          12           288        --         288
D and E Class
(Gravel) 3/          12,000         456       564       1,128         2,148         672    2,820
S Class 3/               12,000       1,092    1,440       1,092          3,624         144    3,768
Nucleus Estates 2/       10,000         470       460         260         1,190         570    1,760
Smallholder Areas  3/  10,000           630       120        640         1,390         570    1,960
Large Farm Areas 3/    10,000           490       590        420          1,500         310    1,810
Access Tracks 3/            440          89        84          86           259          44      303
Bridges and
Crossings 3/           1/             90      -           220           310        --         310
Total                            3,617    3,414        3,978        11,009       2,310   13,319
Physical Contin-
gencies, 10%                        362       341         398         1,101         231    1,332
Total, Excluding
Price Contin-
gencies                        3,979    3,755        4,376        12,110       2,541   14,651
1/   Assumed to be 10% of construction costs.
2/   Maintenance carried out and paid for by sugar companies,
3/   Maintenance carried out by sugar companies, paid for by KSA
from Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund.
July 20, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Roads
Road Maintenance Equipment List
Miwani           Chemelil          Muhoroni 1/         Ramisi            Total
Item                           Unit Cost   No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost
KShs.'000         KShs.'000         KShs.t000         KShs.'000          KShs.'000         KShs.'000
140 HP Crawler Tractor with
Bulldozer and Ripper            740        1       370 2/   1         370 2/   1        370 2/  -- 3/    --         3      1,110
125 HP Motor Grader               610        1       305 2/   1         305 2/   2        610 2/   1         610      5      1,830
1.75 m3 Wheeled Loader            680        1       680       1        680      1        680       1        680      4      2,720
Dump Trucks, 6 t Capacity         220        4       880       4        880       8     1,760       4        880     20      4,400
Pneumatic Tyred Roller 12 t       400        1       400       1        400      1        400       1        400      4      1,600
4 x 4 Long Wheelbase Pickup       120        1       120       1        120      1        120       1        120      4 -      480
Service Truck                     270        1       135 2/   1         135 2/   1        135 2/   1         270      4        675
Water Bowser, 5,000 1 Capacity  270          1       270       1        270      1        270       1        270      4      1,080
Workshop Equipment (Sets)         150        1         75 2/   1         75 2/   1         75 2/   1         150      4        375 -
Total                                 3,235              3,235             4,420              3,380            14,270
1/  Muhoroni has approximately double the other zones' road maintenance requirement.
2/  Half the cost of these items allocated to drainage maintenance.
3/ The crawler tractor required for stockpiling gravel would be provided by
the land-clearing unit.
July 20, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Housing Units
Designated                              Living              Nyanza Sugar Belt
Occupants             Description       Area      Miwani  Chemelil  Muhoroni  Subtotal        Ramisi     Total
(m2)                           (Number of Units) -
A    Senior Managerial and    3 Bedrooms Plus
Technical Staff           Amenities          150        --        --        --                        2           2
B    Other Managerial and
Technical Staff         3 Bedrooms Plus
Amenities          120          4       -           4           8           3          11
C    Supervision Staff         2 Bedrooms Plus
Amenities           75          8                   9          17           8          25
D    Skilled Clerical and      2 Bedrooms Plus
Technical Staff           Amenities           60          50      --          25          75         19          4
E    Clerical and Semi-        1 Bedroom Plus
Skilled Staff             Amenities           31          40      200         45        285          44         329   '
F    Unskilled Permanent       1 Bedroom Plus
Laborers                  Amenities           20        400       --         680      1,080          --       1,080
G    Unskilled Laborers        1 Bedroom Plus
Amenities 1/         8        --                                        1,680
TOTAL                                                      502      200        763       1,465      1,756       3,221
1/ Primarily for migrant or semi-permanent field laborers. These units would be built in blocks,
with eight rooms per block and one kitchen plus toilet per two rooms,
July 20, 1977



- 114
ANNEX 10
Table 8
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Housing, Social Amenities and Other Buildings
Construction and Maintenance Costs
(KShs.'000)
Unit                 Sugar Belt
Cost    Miwani  Chemnell  Muhoroni  Subtotal    Ramisi    Total
A. CGNSTRUCTION
Houses
Type A                                           210       -              -              --            420        420
Type B                                           143        572                 572      1,144         429      1,573
Type C                                            88        704     --          792      1,496         704      2,200
Type D                                            65      3,250     --        1,625      4,875       1,235      6,110
Type E                                            32      1,280    6,400      1,440      9,120       1,408    10,528
Type F                                            20      8,000     --       13,600    21,600         --       21,600
Type G                                             3,7    --                             --          6 216      6,216
Subtotal                                           13,806    6,4009                 8,235     10,412    48,647
Other Facilities
Dispensary                                       364       --       __          364        364         364        728
Workers Club                                     220                            220        220        --          220
Dormitory/Training Institute/Nursery             221       --       -           221        221        --          221
Other Buildings 1/                                          900     --        2 500      3.400       1.900      5.300
Subtotal                                              900                3,305      4,205       2,264     6,469
Subtotal Houses and Other Facilities               14,706    6,400    21,334    42,440         12,676    55,116
Architect's Fees, Supervision, 10%                        1,471       640     2,133      4,244       1,268      5,512
Infrastructure, Furnishings and
Equipment, 25% 2/                                       3,677    1,600      5,333    10,610        3.170    13.780
Subtotal A                                         19,854    8,640    28,800    57,294        17,114    74,408
B.  MAINTENANCE 3/                                                 832       363      1,193      2,388         715     3,103
Subtotal A and B                                   20,686    9,003    29,993    59,682        17,829    77,511
Physical Contingencies, 10%                               2,06        900     2 999      5.967      1.783       7.750
Subtotal                                           2.2,754   Z,1103        9       65 ,649     19,612    85 t261
Price Contingencies 4/                                    5,197    2 264      7,318    14,779        4,490    19,269
Total                                              27,951   12,167    40,310    80,428         24,102   104,530
1/ Includes office buildings, garages, storage and miscellaneous structures.
2/ Includes streets, lighting, water supply and sewerage disposal; furnishings and equipment
for higher grade houses and other facilities,
3/  Calculated at 2% of construction costs,
4/  See Annex 11, Table 31.
December 9, 1977



ANNEX 11
-  115                                                         Table 1
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Suumeary of Proect C      by C(K.  nent
Foreign
Reference                                                                                           ichange
TabLe       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6        TOTAL          Z
BA,F-..YNE COSTS
A.  Irrigation
Capital Costs                        3              75      12,514      13,162       6,370       6,970         579        40,345         52
Recurrent Costs                      3             --          --           829       1,738       2,177        --           4,744         50
Subtotal                             750      12,514      13,991       8,100       9,147         579        45,0951
B.  Drainage
Capital Costs                        4            3,955       5,294       7,934       5i,294      5,294       4,659        32,430         57
Recurrent Costs                      4             --         6,132       6.282       6,432       6,582        --          25,428         52
Subtotal                           3,955      11,426      14,216      11,726     11,076        4,659       57,658          55
C'  Agriculture
Capital Costs                      5-8           20,424      36,760      12,593      18,843       8,534       4,915       102,069         86
Recurrent Non-Variable Costs    9-12              8,270      13,053      14,366      16,243      16,207        --          68,139         29
Recurrent Variable Costs         13-20            4,953      18,279      26,o60      51,225      68,816        --         169,            45
Subtotal                          33,647      68,092      53,019      &6,311     93,559        4,915       339,563         54
B; Ractory
Capital Costs                    21-23              900      16,459      42,188      39,831      17,967       5,14o       122,485         64
Recurrent Non-Variable Costs   24-27               --           100       1,039       5,172       7,857        --          14,168         60
Recurrent Variable Costs         ?4-27             __          --           722       7,795      13 .78        --          21,595         47
Subtotal                             900      16,559      43,949      52,798      38,902       5,140       158,248         62
E.  General Management and
Administration
Capital Costs                       28             --         1,200        --          --          --                       1,200         69
Recurrent Costs                     28           1,415        5,41o       5,601       7,749       9,320        __          29,495         44
Subtotal                          1,415        6,610       5,601       7,749       9,320        __          30,695         45
P.  Roads
Capital Costs                       29           3,990       24,102      12,430       6,750       6,866       1,131        55,269         48
Recurrent Costs                     30             --          --           978       1798        2,222        --48
Subtotal                          3,990       24,102      15 58                    9,088       1,131                       48
r.  Housing and Social Amenities
Capital Costs                       31            3,858      24,724      23,582      22,244        --          __         74,408          29
Recurrent Costs                     31             --          --           571       i,o44       1,488        --           3,103         30
Subtotal                           3,858      24,724      24,153      23,288       1,488        --          77,511         29
H. Agricultural Research (NSRI)
Capital Costs                       32             __           211       2,233        --         -_           _            2,444         40
Recurrent Costs                     32               50       1.288       1,340       1,390         718        --           4,786         59
Subtotal                              50       1,499       3,573       1,390         718        __          7,230         53
I.  Kenya Sugar Authority Training
and Consultancies                 33            2,256       1,743         194         122         122        --          4,437         65
Total Baseline Costs              50,821    167,269    172,104    200,040    174,220         16,424       &80,878          52
CONTINGENCIES
A,  Physical                                           5,165     17,651      23,663      26,122      23,199       7,362       103,162         53
B.  Price                                              2.400     24,177      41,936      66.293      75.948       9.111       219.865         51
Total Contingencies                7,565      41,828      65,599      92,415     99,147      16,473       323,027         52
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                58,386    209,097    237,703    292,455    273,367         32,897    1,103,905           52
October 27, 1978






- 116 -                                           1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 10
iCA
0170 RE8ABAIITATION P210
Table          Yea  1      Year 2      Yea  3      YerI          eoS        Os           TOTAL
Cs.oital Co8t.
Agricol.or                                            5             2,920       6,1459     12,586        5,478       2,165         750)      22,358         65
Fatory                                              21                322       3,582      lb,657      lb,348       3,b6b         --        08,74o          66
Osorn  Man-genet no'd Acnioiotr-tioo            28               --           422        --           -          -            -            422         69
bRod  1,                                             29              -           --         1,200         --          -            -          1,200         35
bouig nod Social A-eitils                            31             1,30        6,3         6.b76        SAl          -            -         1984           2
S.bt.totl8,                                             19,176      FF7164      00.67        6,065         70        7,5             i
Thysicol C-ottng-ni-                               443       1,979         b3        2341          668          7s        7,75          L1
Price Contingeo-e                                 bOO         .686       4.2         7 .03       2.476         389       17,78          5
OcOtotal4,9                                             293,b41     27,9        31,6111      9,6          ,23        9,b6            6
ocrre-t bo-niteCosts
bralcage 2J                                           4              --         3,745       3,745       3,745        3,745        --         14,980         52
dgricojtore                        9             ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~       ~~1,493  2,466  b,720  3.088  3,097  -  32,662 b8
Fnctory                                ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  --      70          77       1,lo.0      1,12         --          303            6
On-era  Mlaog`-et nob Adinigtstrtion                 28               265       1,380       1,360       1,360        1,380        -           5,70'5        21
bo-ds L/                                             30              --          --           --           120         120        -2 40                     40
OcTeing sod Social Ansotten1                         01              --          --            10          2810        397        8-32                      30
Ocittotal                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~1,758  7,6-1 b,7  9,699      16,59         -          37,8662        39
Physic-l Contingeoiss                             177         76M          6           970       1,3          --          3,767         39
ice Contingencies                                  88       1.19         2.16        3.52        4.d          -          11.91-1        40
Soitotal                                     b,021       9,82       1b97        14 ,11      16,59         -          53,340         39
Tnrisble C-nto
Agri-olt=r  - N-cleos Otet                           13             1,314       1.389       1,389       2,597        3,439       --          12,i26         43
A,2rItocr  -  Tgcor                                   4              --         2,667       3,524       8,819      12,641         --         27.871         46
Onctory                                             24               -            --         --          0,897       317          -           504            7
Suototal                         04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1314  4,976  4,13   1,90        0947           -         6,91           4
phyni-ni C-ntige-ies                              131         406          491      0,392        1  ,98       -           4,306         45
Price Contiogecioo                    06~~~~~~~~~~~,  535   i.o81       4.9         737          -           372           46
OuiotoCting                                    1,0-497-,b                         18,74       2932          -          6,2             5
B-oline Fosto                                                       7,300      30,853      33,682      44,647      36,031          750      153,285         52
OyoOc-l Cont-egr-te                               7246      3,148       5,5         4,643        369            75       15.8315        7
Price C-otiag-nc-                                 34         4.419       6,12       14.644      11 ~5,40       1389      43,319         4
Tctnl Miteai Costo                           6,414      38.42       45.354      69.294      05,100       1.213      02 ,45            1
Cobital Costs
Irrigation                                            3--                       0220o       1.86o       i,66o       I.860         -           7,60          so'
AgyicoIt-r                                            6             2,762       9,977         570       4,444       1,820         --         19,1519        66
Ocnds4/j                                             29              --          --           cOO        -            --          -             60          3
Toosis  nod Ocini On-itico                           31               448       2,6164      2,866        2,464        --          --           ,64o         P9
Suitotal                                     3,15         I4 9       5,866       8,768       3,680        -          3,99            67
Tlyc'i-e  Ccotiogoociso                           321       1,586          682         969         461        -           4,013         64
Price Cooti g-ocO'                                147       2.060       1,554        2,970       18682        --          8,433         6i
SobOtni~                                     3,87       18,505       4,132      02,797       5.83         -          46,045          68
bcRr--t  O-V-Cnc l6OIe Coto
Irrigti-c                                             3              -           --           152          304         4s8        --94                      53
Orjo  9/                                            4               -          ,84o       1,04        1,842       1,84o         -           7,60          5
Aori-lt-o                                            10               703       1,135       1,313       1,500       1,48;         -           6,178         26
Fnct-y                                              07               --          --            25         719       1,10          --          1,96,         61
Generl M-ngr--t nod Atioiotcoti-o                   28                200       1,010       1,01        0, 1365     1,510         -           5,090         98
Ocado 9/                               90~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  --     --          --            6o          60        1- 20                      48
-cocond So-ial A-oi iro                         31               --          --            66                                               "I 7   -   6  60
,bu,ltol                                      90C3      3.983       4,466       7,712         60          -          2,7 
OTyolcal Conttcorocicn                90~~~~~~~~~g  398       449         6o8         61         2- ,236                   -2
Price OuotingsocAen                   4~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~6 634  1,162      7,099       31,97        --          7,037          4
0.ccutnl                         ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~1,099  ,015  6.017  2,633  10,770  --         31,074          4
Agrtcolt=o   -  ulosBtt            17-:t1,270                                   i1 o6       1,094       3,368       4,573         1- 2,231                  45
66rictrnOhtcrce1 6                                                              2- 0020     0,000       6,199       9,960 o                  19,399         LI5
actory                                              2                 -           --          -          1,216       o,4Q         -           3,209         47
Subtotal                                     1,070       3,146       5,914      1110, 78-3  15,:776       -           31,009         45
Phycical  1ecnece                                  27          917         391       1,079       1,577        --          e48;          45
Pric -otioeni5 6                                            416;        661       3,321       6,4po         --         10,074         40
utstal                                     0,153       3,77         ,0        17,.183     23,773         --         494,42         45
Soor.COs-elil
bas.eii- Costs                                                      5,383      oi,968      i4,216      25,478       26,136        -          99,063         52
Phyoicsi lcnoiageooies                5~~~~~~~~~~83  2,299  1,522       2,656       2,729        --          9744           5
Fries Cootingencies                   1~~ ~~~~~~~          ~~~49  3,130  3,577  89389  11,299    9- 6,64                    5
OTa',l lh-leil Cooto                         6,170      27.097      19,315      36,523      40,166        1- 29,571                  52
Irrigtion                                             3               -         2,116        1,97        1,970       1,970        -            ,96          5
Ogricoltuce                            ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 12,0-66  11491  3,365  6,641   2,3          ,4o         3,03           9
Factory                            22                9~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~0,  ,9  6,068  46,62  1,525  -  16,335     62
Osorn  Mo-gs-t nod Adoiisirotioto                 o8              --            460        --          --          -           -               oo         69
bcnds 9/                               ~~~~~                  ~     ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~29  - -- 1,200  -- -           -          1,200         37
H-uio  and Pe-al A-,oiie                             31040                       9,4          ,1          59.70   -  -5-,         --          o,o            2
Soitta                                      0206        2,82        2,9          2.            ,6        2,40          2,9           41
Physical Ccntiogeocleo             ~~~~~          ~~~1,40  92,9  2,389  2,396          706         s4         020           6
Price Cootiaceccini                  ~~~~       ~~~~~~      ~~628  9,060  5,061  7,11 258         ,4i       20,808           sO
sobtotal                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17,055-   3304  29442  31,4         900          0,1       0302       -      1
Irrigation                              3               --~        ~~~          ~~~~        ~~~~        ~~~~ ~ --  038  275  419  --  86       50
llrninsas 2/                                         4              --            747         547         547         547        2- ,08                    5
Agr -tcltor                                          11             3,961       5,000       5,950       6,914       6,11          .-2,477                   30
F.ctory                                             26               --          --            25       i,684       2,6976        --          4,365         60
Osners1 M-ogeo-t nod Aaoiniitstioo                  29                265       1,360       1,360       2 096       4,26o         -          027            6
rondo 9/                                30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  --    --          --           020          112       --              4o         46
Hoosiog nnd  -isci1 A-itioo1                         31              --           -            217         4so         576         --          19            3
Outota                                      9,624       7,23 ~    0,237        02,900      15,494         -          4794           3
Physical Contingenies                              383        723          831        ,0          S           -           4791          4
Price Cooticgencceo         179        1,135       2,018       4,60s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gl  7.43,17  -- 1,54           42
OcOttal4,16                                               9,9       11,006      10,6          6,0           -         6749            6
Agricoltorc-Suclocs Ostato                    17             1,163        1,576      2O,84        3,604       4,717        1- 2,19q                  46
Agri-cit-  - QOtg-roer                              18                          4,306'      4,376      i.1,047     15,642         -          35,4141        46
Photory                                0~             ~            ~~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~             ~~~~6 --  --  2,91  4,7B66 -  7,696     47
Sabtotol                        ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~1,163  7,7  ,6  731         2,4           -         56,256         4
Physial Coatiageaies                              i 16        593         646       1,7571      0,515                     5,627         46
Price Co,sttegeales                                31          72        &ei          .sL       ~026                     1780 'F
008te6t       .     .                        1,530       7.303        8,'527     24,727     37,89          --         73.1            46
Rooelooe Costs                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is,645  40,'306  36,397  52,554  16,444   2,400      i96,744          52
PhFslca1 C-ottfgenis- e                          ,8o        428         3,660       5,45 7      4,733         240       20,438          52
Pric  CotfigsccIeo                                808          7 5,08    890        1,45         023         1241        54.2680        49
Total lohoci Cocts                         21,083       50.297      49,655       75,256     71.47,5       3,6        2142            51






ANNEX 11
Table 2
-107-                                                   Page 2 of 2
KENYA
SUGAR RPEItILITATION PROJECT
Suvmary of Project Costa by Factory Zones
(KShs. '000)
Fareign
Reference                                                                                           Exchange
Table         Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4     Year 5      Year 6       TOTAL
PAMTSI
capital Coats
Irrigation                                         3               750       5,598       6,792        --         --          --         13,140         48
Agriculture                                         8            2,676       6,855       6,070       2,280      2,219       1,765       2i,865         83
Factory                                           23                300      9,087      25,470      24,831     12,582       5,14o       77,4io         64
'eneral Manage-ent and Adninistration             28              --           400        --         --          --          --            40          r
Housing and Social Amenities                       31              890       5,780       5.325       5.119       __          --         17,114         29
Subtotal                                   4,616      27,720     43,657      32,230      14,801       6,905      29,929          61
Physical Contingencies                          514       3,216       5,i6i       3,668      1,706         782       15,047         61
Price Coatingencien                             225       3,968      10331      10           6,07        3,613       34,557         61
Subtotal                                   5,355      34,904     59,129      46,231      22,614      11,300     179,533         Ti
Rerurreut Non-Variable Costs
Irrigation                                          3              --         --           392         865        865        --          2,1224        50
Agriculture                                        12            2,713       4,124       4,383       4,721      4,721        __         20,662         50
Factory                                           27               --           50         914       1,663      2,217        --          4,841         60
General tinage..nt and Administration             28                685      1,68o       1,871       2,069      2,190        --          8,495         49
Housing and Social Amenities                       31              --         --           153         240         342       __            715         30
Subtotal                                   3,398       5,854      7,695       9,558      10,335        --         36,6138        5
Physical Coutingencien                          34o         585         789        999       1,077        --          3,790         40
Price Contiugencies                             174         934       1,963      3,437       4,871        --         11,379         39
Subtotal                                   3,912       7,373     10,445      13,994      I6,283        --        52,007          39
Yariable lasts
Agriclture-  Nul     Estate                        19             1,206      3,407       7,470      10,542     11,873        --         34,498         44
Agric-lture - Cutgrowser                          20              --         1,743       3,303       5,051      6,573        --         16,670         45
Factory                                           27              __          --           722       1 772      3,052        --          5,546         47
Subtotal                                   1,20'       5,150      11,495     17,365      21,493        --        56,714         TT
Physical Costiugenrien                          191         515       1,149       1,736      2,149        __          5,671)        15
Price Contingencien                              53         680 22 529           5524        8,749        __         17,535         4
Subtotal                                   1,      3  6            5173    46            32,396        _         79919
8umry Ran iBi
Paseline Costs                                                   9,220      38,724      62,845     59,153      46,634       6,905      223,481         53
physical Contingencies                          975       4,316       7,099      6,403       4,932         7&2       24,507         54
Price Co-tingencies                             452       5582       :L4,803     19,294     19,727       3,613       63.471         53
Total Rsmisi Coots                        10,647      48,622     84,747      94,85o      71,293      11,300      311,459         53
F.  00VER10NT
apitcul Costs
crri-iator - Sibon 3/                                              --        2,146       1,981       1,931      1,91        --          4,089         53
Trr-ia-tlr- A-.ero  /                               3              --          634         579         579      1,179         579        3,550         53
Drainsre '                                          4            3,955       5,294       7,934       5,294      5,294       4,699       31,430         57
Roadn t/                                          29             3,990      24,102       9,430       6,750      6,866       1,131       52,269         49
rnseur'6  -. > )                                 32              --           211       2,233        --          --         --_          2444         4o
Subtotal                                   7,945      32,387     0c,157      14,604      15,32C       6,369       98,781         52
Phynical Cootiugencies                          795       3,377       7,344       6,588      6,669       6,265       31,058         51
Price Coutingeucies                             368       4,734       5,764      5,342       7,486       3.8r9       27,56       _  54
Subtotal                                   9,198      40,499      4.5,265    26,534      29,495      16,503      157,403         5^
Recrirrent uOsts
T.e'-Futa'sed Expenditures
D-In-  7/ 2/                                   4              --          --           150         300        45o        --            900         5o
Bo_ds  /                                      30              --          --           978       1,498      1,922        --          4,338         48
Subtotal                                    --           --        1,12B      1,078       2,371        --          0.299         48
Physical Cottingeunies                         --          --           113         150         237       --            530         4g
Price Contingencies                            --          --           298        6iS       1i148        --          1,9           43
Subtotal                                    __          __         1,539      2,630       3,757        --          7,916         49
Sosn-Te-    nanced rmpenditt-re
rreScotton - tKibos 3/                         3              --          --            78         156        34        --            468         50
Orri.tion - Ahero                             3              --          --            6u         136        207        --            4i4         5O
Reseer.h (NSBI)                               32                50       1,289       1,340       1,390        718        --          4,786         59
f,en>r Sugar Authority                        33             2 256       1,743         194         121         122       --          4,437         69
Subtotal                                   2,30        3,031       1,681      1,806       1,281        --         10,105         6L
Physical  2oitisgeteiro                          131        303         175         195         150       --          1,054         60
Price Csotige-cier                               127        534         472         727         650 -)                _ 512         59
Subtotal                                   2,664       3,868       2,328       2,728      2,031i       -          13,669         5a
iusm.aro l orersimnot
10,251     35,418      29,966      23,208      23,975     11,969      134,785        57
Physical Coutingen-ier                        1,026       3,680       2,632       1,963      2,076         665       12,042         52
Price Contingencies                              49_      5,268       6,534       6,721      9,284       3,869       32,171         54
TotaL  -orersnent Costs                   11,771      44,366      39,132      31.892     35,333      16,503      178.998         53
u?.JD TOCAL ALL ZON20S AN8  00GERNMENT                         5i,386    209.097    237.703    292.455    273.367         32.d97   1 103-905          54
1/  inr-udes factory entrance road only.
j   S-cludes land snoothing and formation of tertiaries, and costr-i- ca of infield drains.
31  'ecluden National Sugar Research Isotitute and a few large Sums    e   related to large farcs t, be rr---ered by
N-P through water charges.
4 enti to he recovered by NIB through water charges.
7  Tnicudes main drainage scheme in Nyasua Sugar Belt, eocludir2 operatiunt described it f-oluste            -1 socLu-es I-na-'e
relIted to irrigation at Kibos, Ahero and Pamisi.
_ccludes factory entrance  roads.
Tccludes clearing of drains only.
7<  To be financed from KSA's Roads and Drainage Maintenanre Fund (5D6I.
October 27, 1978






- lie -
1EfYA                                                                            AA1IIX 11
SUGAR RkEABIfM--MON0 PROJECT                                                                 Table  3
Proleot Coaeis
Unit                                                                                     Forenti
Unit    denhtd    Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Ysear 5    Year 6     7teenY         ch
A. CAPITAL Z0sTs
M8iwani, ZleeeIil nod Nuhoareel
Total Coot Per Location                  Qonoticy
Mi-ani Chmelil   M2horoni       NiwsPi CeFmell 1Mocrcn
Alro  tobe Irr-igatd                                                             400      930       67o        h.                               (500       (500        5   (500      )                2,800
t           tmen  e                             15       165         175                                                                        490                                                  '000)
Lead Ureparetco-                                640    1,438      1,072          4oo      930       670       tn       1,600                    So    oo   800         8o 800                         320          5
deij Canl                                                                          7        5          9       km
Site Clearisg                                  38       39         75      25,500   16,500    50,010        m2            .5                   38          38         3          39                   151        50
C?S.pAoting Book                              --       242        481         __      2,095    24 063 0      3          20                    181         181        13S        13o                   723        50
EEcavntion                                    148       91        179       12,348      ,5       4,40                   12o4                              15         1          10                      8        50
co  Ie 1i140                                                    2 1          1,80o    1,140     2,190       .m       1,000                   1.03       120                    1,05                 3,130        50
S.ItotA1                  1 98b    1;512       2;925                                                                       1,;60O6    1,6                   365606                0,423        50
Dietributnries                                                                    16       37.2      26.8    km
Site Clearieg                                 i44      162        126      96,0cc  108,000    84,ooo         2           1.i50                108        1o0         105       joG                    432        50
ccpAoting RPet                              1,210      648        504      6C,48o   32,400    25,200                    P 20                  591        590         591        595                 1,762        50
Cecnontioo                                     77      173        135        6,400   14,100    11,200                   12                     96          36         96         97                   sOs        50
TrimAing                                        7       15         L2       27,424   61,700    48,900       0            0.25                   8                                                                50
Scbtotl                                                                                                                      803        803        803        804                  3,213       50
Fieli -ed Ditches                                                                 20       46.S      33.5    km
Site Clenring                                  90      203        158      60,000  135,000   105,00         m2           1.50                 123         113        113        li2                   451        50
Coornotiog BeTh                               360      81C        630      o,oo00   40,500    31,501        n3          20                    450         450        450        45o                 1,&Oo        5u
EancX-ntioo                                    96      216        168        e. oo  18,000    14,oQ0        n3          12                    12C         120        120        120                   LSQ        10
Crtesing                                    13         1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~934,030   77,130    60,00o n         0.25                  II         10         10          t
.lSutotnl                   555    1,24          9                                                                           69           3        69L         693                  ,7           0
Control Struoturee
Tnr-ott                                        50       91        100           10       18        20       Unin   5,C00                       60          63         60         6Q                   240        45
Che-ks                                        160      360        2S0           3D0     iS         20       Unite   2,000                     200        200         200        200                   802        so
SobtotAl                    210       450       370                                                                          260        260        260        060                  1,Q40        49
P....ic  oiPhang, ?' rinoecer                     2        3          2           eOo     b 2       470       Unite        5                      2           2          2          1                     7         Q
Oroiroge, eloano  only /                      1,453      --        --            40D     --        --         hn       3,632                    363         363        363        364                 1,453        34
P8tp Station                                                                     555    1,215       941       1/ceo
Oo-erlioe -nd Trasftoers                      250       45         40            5        0.5   --          ke      50,090                     84          8L         84         83                   335        70
P-apho-e,C oivil Uorke                        Pea      300        30                                                                          200         0oo        200        200                   800        65
PSt2annd I.oter-                              370      550        Lo70           3        3         7       Mot.                              342         743        742        343                 1,370        78
Riotog I.la  and stilling bneia               100      150        1'0                                                                         100         100        100        100                   400        6o
S,btotal                    920    1,045         940                                                                         726        707        726        726                  2,905        67
Moginerieg sog d Admnlistration, 10%            735      69i        724                                                                         53853         7        57   5      38              = 2.150         65
Subt.ttl Mi.i,
Chemelil, Maheemni       5,909    7,6c0       7,966                                                                       6,282       ,7          791 1,    591 1                23,655        53
Px3isi 
Q-at ity
Alre to be Irri,ent.
Oetnbliee7t                                                                                                                                     1 C  (370)  (400)                                       (770)      1
alo knda    ng                                                                                                                     100          190                                                     929        --
lutp station                                                                                                                                     536        420                                          O56        50
PtmPhotex, Cirlo Work,
epe end Motor,                                                                                                                                                                                         3          50
ooe -oojo   a30                                                                                                                                             300                                          00         50
3,010       '                                           0,090        40
rrigettn gitanoetis 310                                                                                                                                   1,000                                        1,9010       so
Adeiietratioo                                                                                                                    650         38o                                                                to
9ubtotal Unniol                                                                                                  6750      5,53909    4,T1S90                                     1'-1045       40
--ero Corsraion 3,
Aren to to Contor-ed to Coot                                                              77                  Ut                               (154,       (154)      :Y14)      (1541      (i54(       (770,
E.tnIlZ-tt                                                                                                                                       55
Lend PreParotlto
Dee-li,l Poodo, Deep 0ippi12                                                            154                 hoy/oar   150                      23          23         23         03         03          D         5
land Fieoebtto                                                                        1,464.             Houra/oyer   2P3                     337         337        3'7        337        775
Cootrol Otroooeeu gs
"niet Octet tilt Crop   ror 9)                                                           60              Unite/year   84o                      S           5C         So0       650          0        30-         4
Chlok  Itrootore (SFAli)                                                                 SS                 ite/year 19 CC                     95          55         55         575                              49
Chlck 9truct-re (Large)                                                                  30              Ooito/o mr 2,0C0                      6z          60                          60    oI 00
Orglteeriag cod Admc.A itr-tiA, i6                                                                                                               54  .       54         S4         54         54        270         65
btlroent Abere                                                                                                               734        579        5779      :,79         579      3 550        S3
S,btot i1 Al  iCpittn  Cent,                                                                                     750      12,514     13,162       6,370      0,971        579     4n 34
rhysi-al                                                                                                                            Illtl.lgencies. 15%  113  1,877  1.307  40289  4 370    3,E00     19.783 1;
0tu.eioo1 Oootio0rteiee. 1s                                                                                      d63      14,791     18,489      18,639     11,348      0,399     80, 130       52
Priceron o itgencceel4/                                                                                                              43        2,015      3,633      2,417      3,527        73tb      2,000        52
Totl  cpitel Ce.t,                                                                                             906      i6,406     22,102      13,076     14,875      4,765     72,131         52
TI. 0.00190000 077T0 (Ilieati. lonemlit, Huhoron.
Pgals, There)
Elotrirz5/                                                                                                                                                  21G1       431         646Q               1i,3          30
Di-eel Eue /                                                                                                                                                083        6           6o                  i,433        6
Pmp 0per-tio 7/                                                                                                                                              25         49          64                   130        67
UteUtlzeooef/15                                                                                                                                                         33          .~2                   30        67
Fu I'.antin entet leration 9/                                                                                                                                          47o -'00   6321                 1,330        54
irrlgnio-o  yatr vvait-nnoo 11/                                                                                                                              60        130        o4                     Ws         54
0.-tonal                                                                                              027       1,795      2,177                 4,084        55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29 1,3  217  ,,,
OtOeicnOOootO,rooriot, 753                                                                                           105       061         327                   003        00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 ~ 6 
1,ysicel toznlvPnc                                                                                                                                 , 955  1,925  02,53074           7 .457       70
Price Contingencico 41                                                                                                                                      171         60o        9.6                 1,f77        50
Tatl p00--r-t c   note                                                                                                                1,i45     .-559       3,43o                  7,134       50
C. 000000Y
E4s9lin   o-I.^,0. scd b                                                                                                    9,51i4    13,991       8,108        _4,.4      579      45,089        51
rhysic4it CrortioCo   ,  50                                                                                                         0 643     16,591     19,400     1042,6589    153,1>323  4.399    68,507         51
Urtco Ceoziaoetries 40                                                                              4c      2,015       7,328      2.777      0,073         366     13.653        51~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~43 2115  ,~4  ,4-  3,6 13,78 5-
PieC-ntinr-ci- 4/1
lo~tal DTrig4t    Costs                                                                                         -9o       16,496     23,247      15,635     1n,30o      4,765      79,265        51
1,/ Drtitgr ontte ftt Cecelli otd 0...  orotl are ipoltOed ceder Ute drngr ct mP--t (Cebll  4 'e the drn-ingr -Ad irrigaticr  areae in thosen ce  could be oinciding.
2/  OtreitOn, rnlnbilitetlctcOr exis.ing irrigett-t esytes '370 SS snd cortotict Cf neo Ott (too ha).
3/  Oeroo'Oea,,,lyouooer-ior-of irri-ntelrco toroae; eacluie 30 h.ea lrady4 0roote.
S-o tpooo0io 1.
s   A-bed price.  Uhs. 7.324'Oec, .oertge cooa-ptio- per year in eh'd000:  Mi-at 307, Cheoelil 1,D03, M  -oro-i 840, Abort 493.
to/ .soccer,1 price XShs0.d.60/iOter.
7/ 000,. 71 oIr CorP per Cetr.
1 h -prIeetto 19. per year of c-pitol -ot of pv0p otetioa,
9! E4presetsc I ditch ealker nod too siphon oprrtor-  per dittribttor.
?7 Peprac-to   p.t5% per yo-r of oopitrl root of cola  c-an. pls  fOo eanro/to toi,ctoatrt oC daOtribt-rie- and field dinches.
O-btose 27, 197a






KENYA
SUGAR REHLAILITATION PR3JECT
ProJect Costs
Lrainage
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5           Ye.. 6                    Exchaag
Unit Cost    No.  AMount    No.  A        t     No.   Aoont    No.  Asount    No.  Aout            No.  Amount        Totel          i
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Veh s and      0 drsent
120/160 hP Cra-ler Tractor With Bulidoser . /                                                740        3    1,110                                                                                              1,110         90
125 OP Motor Gr-der ,/                                                                       610        4     1,220                                                                                             1,220         90
Hydrauli Bkackhoe                                                                            470                                          3     1,41o                                                           1,41(         80
Tre-h-er                                                                                    A26                                           3       780                                                             78C         80
Lorry, 6t Capacity                                                                           150                                          3       450                                                             450         60
Pour-Wheel Drive Pick-Up, Long Base                                                          120        3       360                                                                                               360         60
Service Lorry 2/                                                                             270        3       405                                                                                               405        6A
Workshop Equipment (Sets) 1/                                                                 150        3       220                                                                                              225          70
Subtotal                                                                     3,320                             2,640                                                          5,9I0          79
Drainage Conotruction Cents
Area to be D-ained (ha)                                                                                                       (3,006)          (3,006)           (3,006)          (3,006)          (3,006)    (15,030)
E-saation            USit Cost
(cue per a). (KShs. per  u     K) KShB. per ha)
Collectoro                                      24.6            12.75            314                                             944              944              944               944              944       4,720         50
Main Drains                                     48.3 |          11.00            532                                           1,599            1,599             1,599            1,599            1,599       7,995         55
ITprove-ent of Natural Wetere-yo                12.9            11.00            142                                             427              427              427               427              427       2,135         55
Culverts - 1,000 co Pipee                                                         88                                             264              264              264              264               264       1,320         60
- 800 em Pipee                                                          263                                             790              790              790              790               790       3,950         60
Engineering -nd Supervisiun 3/                                                                                  635            1,270            1.270            1.270             1.270              635       6,350         40
Subtotal                                                                       635            5,294            5,294            5,294            5,294             4,b59      26,470         52
Subtotal Capita1 Cueto                                                       3,955            5,294            7,934            5,294            5,294             4,659      320430         57
PhysOnal Contimgenieo, 10%                                                                                      39                2              .6.96                            2,16               ,33       1,1057
Subtotal                                                                     4,351            5,-823          10.395            7 490            7,490             6992       42,540         57
Pri-e Contiggencies i                                                                                           181              815            1,979             1,922            2.562            2,819      10,278         61l
Total Capital Colst                                                          4,532            6,638           12,374            9,412           10,052             9,811      52,818         58
B. PECURENT COSTS
!bls-vtioe             SnOt Cost
(Ecuso perha)  (KShs. per cue-   (KShS  per he)
lad 2eoothing and Formation of Tertiaries 2/ 200                 9.50          1,900                                           5,71             5,711             5,711            5,7311                      22,844          52
Infield Drai1s  /                               16 .5            8.50            140                                             421              421               421              421                        1,684         50
Clearing of Drains                                                                50                                                              15004;so                                                        900         50
Subtotal                                                                                      6,132            6.382            6,432            6,542                        25,9o        52
Phyolc-l Contiagenies, 10%                                                                                                       6~13             628              643               68                         2,5-42        52
Subtotal                                                                                      6,745            6,910            7,075            7,240                        27,970         52
Price Contingencies 9/                                                                                                           944            1,058             2.335            3,185                        8.122          52
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                         7,689            8,568            9,410            10,425                       36,092          52
C.  SUMMARY
Baseline Costs A and R                                                                                        3,955           11,426           14,216            11,726           11.876            4,659      57,858          55
Physical Conttngencies, 10%      Subtotal                                                                     435              12143             3089          21839              As.854          25333        12 653         55
&bt.t.1                                               4,34 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~256          17,385           14,55             14,730            6,992      7.515
Price Contingencies i/                                                                                          181            1.759            3,637             4.257            5,747            2 819       18,400
Total Diranage Costs                                                         4,532           14,328            20,942           18,822           20,477            9.811       88,911         55
i/ SIeludes only 50%3of the cost of vehicles and equipment due to joint use fur dr-inage and roads  aiotenanve; the balance it included in Table 29
2/  Average of 38.8 n  e--avation per hectare on 11,760 hectares eds 82.3 m3 e-cavtlioo pe  hbectare on 3,270 hectree.
3/  .a.ed on 12.5% of cost of construction of collectors, =Ain drains, culverts, land smoothing  infield daine ani of Irprovement of -ateruny.
See Appendio 1.
2   Considered recurrent costs because land smoothing and construction of infield drains hare to be repeated every five yearn (i e.  crop cycle).
October 27, 1978



A~ 11
- 120-Tbl 
SUGAR IIEUoILXTW7ION YtOJCT7
Ye ri            Ya r2            Tor 3            Year 4            Yaw  5           Ya_ 6                     ExchuAme
Unit Coat       Ho  aunt         60  punt         No  aunt          Ne Punt   _          N ,4unt      Ho  bauni           Total       2
A.  AGRICULTURL L DEPART9(RNT     2/
Four-Whenl Delve Vehicle,
Short Race                              87       1       87       1        87      1        87                                                             261         60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle,
L.eo  Ran                              110                                          1      110                                                             110         60
Motrnoyclaa                                8      2        16                                                                                                16         60
Ton Truck, Dinac1, 10 WRhoa
With He" end Metori-nd
Winch                                  270                                          1      270                                                             270         80
Ageotn- ic Rea..ech EOqipment                              135                                                                                               135         50
Office Machitee, Equipent And
Poeciturn                                               150                                                                                                150        30
Sebtet l Agricotur-l Depuetneet                       388                87              467                                                             942         63
B.  NUCLEUS ESTATE
Land Prenpratitn end Maintenance
160/180 HP Cr aler Tractor               850       1       850      1       850                                                                            1,700         90
120/160 HP Crawler Tractor               640       1      640                                                                                                640         90
90/120  HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor         320       1       320                                         1       320                                           640         90
60/90   HP 4-Wheel Drive Trottr          150       1       150      1       ISO                                                                              300         90
Eguipaent
Ripper                                  70       1        70      1        70                                                                              140         90
HAvy Ro_e Plough                       115       1       115      1       115                                                                              230         90
Diic Plcugh                             40       1       40                                          1       40                                             80         90
Roe Haerrew                             60       1        60                                         1       60                                            120         90
Ridging SBdien                          10       1        10.     1        10                                                                               20         90
Spritg Tine.                            16       1        16      1        16                                                                               32         90
Subtotal                        2,271            1,211                                420                                         3,902         90
tate Trununort a,,d Rarveetico
65/90 HP Tractor                         105                                                           1       105      1      105                           210         90
Trailer, 8t Capacity, Sioglo  Sole        60                                                           1       60       1       60                           o20         60
Cone Londer, Wb-el DnTrite
HydroatutLi  With Front Filer          590                                                           1      590                                           590          90
Support Equip=en5
65/90 HP Tracrrr, With 5t Winch
Attuoh-et                            150                                                           1      150                                            150         90
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle,
Short hen                             87                                                           1       87                                            87         60
Itot-rcytIe, 1SO cc                      8                                                           2       16                                             16         60
Chain Sling6                             3                                                          30       90                                             90         0
Scotel                                                                                1 098               6523                                     5
Sobtotul Ruicleua Recoin                       2,271            1,211                              1,518              165                        5,165         89
C.  OUTGROWERS
Land P            Aenutetiuc nd  eicnete
160/180 HP Crawler Tractor               850                        4    3,400        1      850                                                           4,250         90
120/160 HP Crueler Tractor               640                        2    1,280        1      640                                                           1,920         90
90/120  OP 4-Wheel Drion Tractor         320                        2       640       1      320       2      640       1      320       1       320       2.240         90
60/90   HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor          150                       2       300                                                                              300         90
Egoipement
Ripp-r                                  70                        4       210       1       70                                                            350         90
Money H leee Plough                    115                        4       460       1      115                                                            575         90
Dier Pleu6h                             40                        2        go       1       40       2       gO       1       40       1        40        280         90
Ro2 elRrrov                             60                        2       120       1       60       2      120       1        60      1        60        420         90
Rid8in8 BodiLa                          10                        2        20                                                                               20        90
Sprtti  Tiora                           16                        2        32                                                                              32         90
Support Eguip.ent
Field Service Trock                    240                        1       240                                                                             240         60
FPor-Whorl Drivn Vehicle,
Short Bear                            87                        2       174                                                                             174         60
Metorcytlee, 150 cc                     8                         3        24                                                                              24         60
Subtotal                                                7,050             2,095              840              420              420      10,825         89
Cute Traanport and Hraveetioc
65/90 HP Tractor                         105                                                           8      840       6      630       2       210      1,680         90
Ttulen, gt C.p-city, Sing1o A.le          60                                                           8-   480         6      360       2       120        960         60
Cane Loader 4-Wheel Dlie
Hydr.taatit  With Fren  Pfi-er          590                                                          1      590       1       590                       1,180
S8pport Eqoipto                                                                                                                                                         90
65/.0 RP Tr..ttr With 5t Wiech
Attuehcect                           150                                                          3       450                                           450         90
Field Service T-uck                    240                                                           1      240                                           240         60
Poor-Wheel Drive Vehicle,
Shoet BRe.                            87                                                          2       174                                           174         60
Motercy.la, 150 cc                        8                                                         4        32                                            32         60
Chain slioga                             3                                                         70       210                                           210         80
BRa: Radio Stetioc cid 3 Mohile
unitt                                 80                                                          1       g00                                                      80
Sobtotl                                                                             3,096           1,500              330       5,006         o2
Oet-rovera MOfcune-.nt And Ad,uinietratiun
Fpaw-Wheel Drive Vehicle, Shrt BO-c    87          1        87      1        87                                                                             174         60
lte-rcycle., 150 cc                         8      3        24      3        24      3        24       3       24                                            96         60
Office Mnchin-a, Equipment acd
Por-irore                                               150                                                                                              150          50,
Suhbt,tl                           261              111               24                                                            420         56
Sobtolul Outgrovers                            261            7,161            2,119            3,960            2,000              750      16,251         86
Sobhotal A, B  and C                             2,920            8,459            2,586            5,478            2,i65               750     22,358         85
Phyaioal CootinsRnoi.s, 10%                            292              846              259               548              26                75       2             SS
Suhtat1                         3,212            9,305            2,845            6,026              30t              825                      5
Prion Ilentiogooniec         2/                      12H            1,117              569            1.687               887              388       4_770        85
TOTAL                  3,340           10,422            3,414            7,713             3,262            1,213      29,364         85
1/  Inclodirg droicugecoeta, vhich urn aho-n to Table 4 -nd ir aigtion conic, eho-n in Table 3.  Iacluden incroenetal cota  only.
2/  Includ.  anoageacnt ov-rh-ed for Agricultural D-partnent, ohrictltoral reacarob enaff, agricultural  -ahvicca, vankhahp .entiec,  nd nuney unit.
3/ See Appendin 1.
Jun- 20, 1978



Tsble 3
-                                                                   T121 - 
KENYA
SUGAR RERABISSf 5ION IEOJECT
4rioulturalC0 itsl Gosts    /
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3             Yer4              Year5              Year 6                    Exchange
Unit Coet        re. deount         No. taunt            feor M          Re. Amount      _  No. Aevount        So. Anout         Total       c
A. AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT       5/
Foor-Wheel Drive Vehicle
Short Roee                            87         1        87        1        87
Foor-Wheel Drive VYhiole                                                                                                                                                         60
bemg Base                            110                                               1       110                                                                 110         66
Matoroyalee                              8          2       i6                                                                                                        16         60
Tao, Trook, Diesel, 10-heels1
with Bo erd Motari-ed
Wirch                                270                                                1      270                                                                 2'           Bc
Agronosli  Researoh EquiPosot                              175                                                                                                       1A?         50
Office Mehides, Rquipmert
sad Furniture      ,150 
Buhtet.l Age4eultSre Dsparteent                          369                 o7                300         --                                                       5          63
B. NUCLEUS RSTATE
tnd Pre-pretitr end Meinterae
160/180 HP GrYl-er T-ator              850         1       850        1       a50
120/160 HP CreJ7er Tr-etor            640          1       64o        1       640                                                                                   i,700        96
90/120 HP 4-Wheel Drive Treetor       320          1      320         1      320                            1      320         l      320                          i,BSo        96
60/ gO OP 4-Wheel Drive Tre-tar       150         1       150        l       150        1       15O                                                                  450        90
Ripper                                70          1       70         1       70                                                                                     140        96
Heavy Rune Plough                    115         1       115         l      115                                                                                     230        90
Di      I                   1       40                           1        40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20                          9
LieaPlough                            4 4        0                                                                 40                                               120        90
RueHrro                            60          1       60         1        06                           1       60                                               200         96
Ridgirg Bodies                        10         1        10        1        10         1       10        1
Sprins Tines                          16         1        16        1        16        1        16 4i                                                                           Y8
Subtotal                              2,271              2,271                176                420                320                          5,458        90
Cane Tr8rsport end HRec5ting
65/90 HP Traotar                      105                                                                   1      105         1      105                           210          70
T-il-, 8t Capaity, Single ale    d60                                                                         1       60                 60                           120         6o
Cene L-s8e, k4-hee   Drive59
Rydro:tatlo With Frot Piler         590                                                                    1       90                                              790          0o
Support Equipsent
65/90 HP Tractor With St Wirch
itachevent                         15i                                                                  1       150                                              150         90
Field Service Trutk
Four-Wheel Drive Vhiole,
Short B-se                          87                                                                  1        87                                               87         60
Moturayle, 150 oc                      8                                                                   1        8                                                8          60
Chum Slinga                            3                                                                 30        90                                               70          90
Bse Redio Statior end 3 Rtbile
Subtotal                                                                                        1,090                165                         1,255          05
Subtotal N-uoleua Etate                         2,271              2,271                 176             1,510               465                           6,713         69
0. OUT03ROWR0 B
Lted Pre=arition end Xud anenae
160/180 HO Crowler Treotor             850                            2    1,700                                                                                   1,700          90
120/160  FP Crowder Trautor            640                            4    2,560                                                                                   2,560          90
90/120 HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor       320                            4    1,280                            1       320        2       640                         2,240          90
60/90   HP 4-Wheel Drive Trector      i5O                            4       600                                                                                    600          00
Gouipsneno
Ripper                                70                            4       280                                                                                    280          90
Heavy Rne Plogih                     115                            2       230                                                                                    230         90
Lisc Plough                           4o                            4       160                           1        40        2        80                           280          90
Rune Barrow                          o6                             4       240                            1       60         2      120                           420          30
ridginag Bodie                        10                            4        40                                                                                     40          90
Spring Tires                          16                            4        64                                                                                     64          90
S.pport Equiprent
FPor-AWhcel Driv  Vehicles,
9hort Bess                          87                            2       174                                                                                    104         60
Notornyclas, 150 o8                                                  2      16                                                                                     i6          60
Subtotal                                                  7,342                                   420                840                         0,c04          90
Cene Transport and Harveoting
65/90 HP Tr-ctor                       105                                                                   5      525         3      315                            840         90
Tr-iler, 8t C    iapaity, tSigle Arle   60                                                                  5       300        3       180                           480          60
Cane L-e-er, 4-over Briar
Hydro-tati  With Fro-t Piler        590                                                                   1      590                                              509 20
Support sqoipoent
65/90 HP Tr-ator With 5t Windh
Attachnent                         150                                                                  3       450                                              450          90
Field Sernioa Truok                  240                                                                  1       240                                              240          60
Four-S l Drive Vehilole,
Shtrt Bane                          87                                                                  1        07                                               67          60
Hltorcyule, 150 cc8                                                                                        2       16                                                10        g0
Cha   lings                            3                                                                  70      210                                              210          90
Boe Radig Station usd3 tobille
UTito                               80                                                                   1       80                                               80          0
Sutotalt                                                                                        2,49h                495                          2,993         02
Adtiietrdt         -ton
Pour-lheel Brian Vetioles
Shart B.s                             87         1        87         1       67                                                                                     14          60
Metoroyuien,  150                         a         2       16         2       16         2       16         2       i6                                                64         60
Farnit Ere                                                                  150                                                                                     150         50
Suitot.1                                 103                253                 16                 16                                               300         5i
Subtotal Outgroecrs                               103              7,597                  16             2,934              1,335                         11,965          So
Subtatul A, B  end C                            2,762              9.955                 572             4,444              1,820                         19,553          86
Ptyeloal Suntiagenair, 1CR                            276               996                 57                 444              162                          1,955          866
Subtoit.                               3,038             16,951                629              4,666              2,002                        81,700           6
Price Contingenuiies    5/                            122            1.314                 126              1.369                761                          3,672         86
TDTAL                         3,160             12,265                755              6,257              2,743                         25,180          86
3/ Inuluding drtainge uoets, whidt   are  wn - n To table  4    ed irraigtion  -oeto ehown it  Table  3.    Inlodee inor=ental -oste  y.
5/  loolodec menag-nout soerhead Car rAgiu-ltural Deper-t-ot, agrinult-ral research staff, agricultural cureless, workshop section, end surrey unit.
-/ see Appendi 1.
Jls- 20, 1978






-122-                                                            Table 7
STGAR  EBABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cacti
Ar"iultural Capital Costs  1/
lOsboreni
(E9Ths. '055)
year 1           Year 2           Yea  3           Year 4           Year 5          Year 6                     Forehgng
Unit Cost         YePr   I       Nc. Asant          Yetr 3n        Nv. A vouuntNc.,sa,sc . Y,neart St  NP. Monet     Total           I
A. AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT        2/
Conpany Cats                              90       2      180
Fear-Wheel   lve Vehicle,60
Short BSar                              87       2      174       2      174       1       07
Fear-Wheel Drive Vehicle,                                                                                                                                             60
Loc' Oase                              110                        2      220
Mlotorcycla                                0       2        16                                                                                             220        60
Tcw Truck, Diesel, 10-                                                                                                                                      16        60
Wheels with Been and
Molericed Wioch                        270                        1      270
ASron=o  NReearcech Squiprent                              135                                                                                             270        8D
Offi-c  Machiene, Equipet,                                                                                                                                 135        50
and Fusrniture                                          300              300              100                                                           70          50
Agricultural Workshop                                     600                                                                                               0         70
isecellaneous Machinery & Eoui ment                     1,500                                                                                           1.00         9
Subtotal Ageloultucal Depertoent                   2,905              9t4      1_        7       -                                                 4,05h         72
B. NUCLEUS ESTATE
Lted Preparation and Malotecance
160/180 HP Crawler Trect-r               850       1      050                                                                                             550         90
120/160 hP Crawler Tractor               640       1      640                                                                                             640         90
90/120  HP 4-Wheel Drive Tracter         320       1      320       1      320                                                                             640        90
60/90   hP 4-Wheel DCave Tracte          15r               150                                                                                            150         90
Equipnent
Ripper                                  70       1       70                                                                                               70        90
hevy Ro=e Plgh                         115       1      1                                                                                               171         90
Di.s Plongh                             40       1       40       1       4o                                                                             80         90
Ro-e hSrrow                             60       1       60       1       6o                                                                             120        90
Ridging nodies                          10       1       10                                                                                               10        90
Spring Tio.s                            16       1       16                                                                                               16        90
Support Equipment
Foor-Wheel Drive, Short BSa.            07       1       87                                                                                               87        60
Metc-cynles, 150 en                      0       1        8                                                                                                8        60
Sbtotal                  2,366               420                                                                          2,786        90
Cane Transport and harvesting
65/90 UP Tractor                         105       3      315                                         2       210      1       10      2      210         840        90
Trailer, St Capa-ity, Single ARle         60       7      180                                         2      120       1        63      2      120         480o       90
Cane Londer, 4-Wh-ee Drel
Hydrostatic With Freet Pile            590       1      590                                         1      590                                         1,180        90
Supper Eqeipcent
65/90 HP Tractor with 5t Wi-ch
Attan_c,e-t                          150                                                          1      150                                           150        90
Fout-Wheel Mriln Vehicle,
short tase                            87                                                          1       87                                            87        60
Motereyles, 150 en                       8                                                          3       24                                            74        60
Chain Slings                             3                                                         20       60                                            60        90
Subtotal                  1,005                                              1,241                                 730     2,201         00
Subtotal Notleus Estate                   3,451               42o                             1,241                                230     5,607         89
C.  OUTGRBOWRS
Lend Preparation and Maintenaste
160/180 hP Crawlar Tractor               850       3    2,550       1      850                                                                           3,4ho        90
120/160 hP Crawie Tractor                640       3    1,920       5    3,200                                                                            _,120       90
90/120  HP 4-Wheel Drive frontor         320                        5    1,600                        2      640       1      320       1      320       2,880        90
60/90  MSP 4-Wheel Drive Trateor         150                        5      750                                                                             750        90
E,q.ipment
Ripper                                  70                        5      350                                                                             350        90
heavy Roun  Plough                     115                        1      115                                                                             115        90
DiscPlough                              40                        5      200                        2       80       1       40       1       40         360        90
Rone harrow                             60                        5      300                        2      120       1       60       1       60         540        90
Ridging Bodies                          10                        5       50                                                                              50        90
Spriog Ti...                            16                       5        80                                                                              80        90
Support Equipment
Field Service Truck                    240       1      240                                                                                              240        60
Four-Wheel DriCe Vehielo,
Short Base                            S7      4       348                                                                                              348        60
liot-rcycl-e, 150 no                     8       5       40                                                                                               40        60
Subtotal                  5,09o            7,495                               S40              420              420      14,273         69
Ca.e Transeprt and harvesting
65/90 hP TStar                           105                       10    1,050      10     1,050    11    1,155        7      735      10    1,050       5,04o         90
Trailer, 8t Cepanity, Singlo AxeO         60                       1D      6oo      10      6io      11      660       7      420      10      609       2,880        90
Cone Londo, 4-Wheel DriV-
Hydrustatic With Front Pile            590                        1      590       2     1,180      2    1,180       1      390                        3,540        90
Support Rqoipoent
65/90 hP Tractor With 5t Wisch
Attachment                           150                        1      150       2       300      3      450                                           900        90
Field Service Truck                    240                                                          1      240                                           240        60
Pour-Wheel DOie Vehicle,
Short Bane                            87                                                         5       435                                          435         60
Mot-oycles, 150 cc                       8                                                          9       72                                            72        60
Ch4ai  Slings                            3                                                        80       240                                           240        90
Once Radio Station and 3-Pobile
eitas                                 80                                                          1       80                                            80        90
Subtotal                                   2,390             3,130           4,512            2,745            1,65o      13,427         60
Outgrewerc Racooneent ond Adoinictrati-e
Coopuny Cor                             90      1        90                                                                                               90        60
Foer-wheel Drio Vehicle,
Short Bas                            87       2       174      2       174                                                                            348         60
-etorcyclos                              8      6        48      6        48       6       48      6        48                                           192        60
Office Eqahioea, Equipnent and
Furniture                                             300                                                                                             300        50
Subtotal                    612              222               48               48                                           930         57
Snbtotal Outsroerr-                 5,710          10,107             3,178            5,400            2,165            2,070    20,630          87
8ubtotal A, B, and C               12,o66          11,491             3,365           6,641             2,330            2,400     39,293         67
Physical Contingencies, 101                    1.207           1.14g              336              664              233              240      3,829          87
Subtoctl                  13,273          12,640            3 701            7,305            2,563            2,640      42,2.          87
Price Cootiegn iec     J                       531           1,517              740           2,045               948            I.24i       7,022         87
TOTAL         13,804          14,157            4,44i            9,350            3,521            3,881      49,144         87
1/  Inoluding drains3e coats, which are cho.-  is TabOo 4 aDd irrigsti-n cuete oShoW  in Table 3.  Taclides  -cteetntnl  Soto only.
2/  Ioclodes mnoaigooot overhead lor Agricultural Departnent, a3ricolturol research staf,agricul-tral cervices, workehop section and convey .nit.
3/ SIn Appendix 1.
Jsne 20, 1978






ANNEY 11
-123 -                                                                             1 . I of ?
KENYA
SUGAR REHA8ILITATION PROJECT
project Casts
Agricultural Capital Costs 1/
Rasisi
(KShs. '000)
Foreign
Year I           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4           Year 5            Year 6                    Exchange
Unit Cost       No. AmsoNo.                                nt       No. Aount         No. Amouut       No. Amount        Total          %
A. AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT        2
Cospasy Cars                               90       2      180                                                                                                 180         60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehiclo,
Short Base                               87      2       174       1        87                                                                               261         60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle.
Long base                               110                                          1      110                                                              110         60
Mptorcycles                                 8       2        16                                                                                                 16         60
Tow Truck Dieael, 10-Wheels
With Bous, sod Motorized Winch          270                                          1      270                                                              270         80
Agronomic Research Equipment                                135                                                                                                135         50
Office Machines, Equipment and
Furniture                                                150                                                                                                 150         50
Subtotal Agricultural Department                      655               87               380                                                           1,122         62
B.  NUCLEUS ESTATE
120/160 HP Crawler Tractor                640       1      640       3    1,920        1      640       1       64o                                          3,840         90
90/120  UP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor          320       1      320       2       640       2      640       1       320      1       320       1       320      2,560          90
60/90   HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor          150       1       150      2       300       1      150                                          1       150         750         90
Equipment                                                                                                                                                       2
Ripper                                   70       1       70       3       210      1        70       1        70                                           420          90
Disc Plough                              40       1       40       2        80       2       80       1        40       1       4o       1        40         320         90
Roise Harrow                             60       1       60       2       120      2       120       1        60       1       60       1        60         48o         90
Ridging Bodies                           10       1       10       2        20       1       10                                          1        10          50         90
Spring Tines                             16       1       16       2        32       1       16                                          1        16          80         90
Support Equipment
Field Service Truck                     240                        1       240                                                                               240         60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle,
Short Base                            87       1        87                                                                                                 87         60
motorcycles, 150 on                       8       2       16                                                                                                  16         60
Subtotal                                1,409            3,562             1,726            1,1-0               420              596       8,543         89
Cane Transport and Narvesting
65/90 HP Tractor                          105                                          2      210       3       315       2      210       1       105         840         90
Trailer, 8t Capacity, Single Axle          60                                          2      120       3       180       2      120       1        6o         48a0        60
Cane Loader, 4-Wheel Drive
Hydrostatic With Front Piler            590                                          1      590                         1      590                         1,18o         9
Support Equipment
65/90 HP Tractor With 5t Winch
Attachment                            150                                         2       300                                                              300         90
Field Service Truck                     240                                          1      240                                                              240         60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle, Short Base  87                                             2      174                                                              174         60
Motorcycles, 150 cc                       8                                         4        32                                                               32         60
Chain Slings                              3                                        66       198                                                              198         90
Base Radio Station sod 3 Mobile Units 80                                             1       80                                                               80         90
Subtotal                                                                   1,944              495               920               165      3,524          79
Subtotal Nucleus Estate                        1,409             3,562            3,670             1,625            1,34o               761      12,367         86
C.  OUTGROWERS
Land Preparation and Maintenance
120/160 NP Crawler Tractor                640                        2    1,280                                                            1       640       1,920         90
90/120  HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor          320                        2       640       1      320                         1      320                         1,280         90
60/90   HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor          150                        2       300                                                                               300         90
Equipment
Ripper                                   70                        2       140                                                           1        70         210         90
Disc Plough                              40                        2        80       1       40                         1       40                           160         90
Rpme Harruw                              60                        2       120       1       60                         1       60                           240         90
Ridging Bodies                           10                        2        20                                                                         .      20         90
Spring Tines                             16                        2        32                                                                                32         90
Support Equipment
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle,
Short Base                             87                        1       87                                                                                 87         60
Motorcycles, 150 cc                       8                        1                                                                                         58          60
Subtotal                                                 2,707               420                                420              710       4,257         89
Cane Transport and Harvesting
65/90 HP Tractor                          105                                          2      210       2       210       2      210       1       105         735         90
Trailer, 8t Capacity, Single Axle          60                                          2      150       2       120       2      120       1        6o         420         60
Cane Loader, 4-Wheel Drive
Hydrostatic With Front Piler           590                                           1      590                                                              592         90
Support Equipment
65/90 HP tractor With 5t Winch
Attachment                            150                                         1       150                                                              150         90
Four-Wheel D,ive Vehicle,
Short Base                             87                                         1        87                                                               87         60
Motorcycles, 150 cc                       8                                          2        16                                                              16         60
Chain Slings                              3                                         34      102                                                              102         90
Subtotal                                                                   1,27               330               33D              165       2,100          83
Outgrowers Management and Administration
Company Car                                90       1        90                                                                                                 90         60
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle,
Short Bane                               87       2      174       2       174                                                                               346         60
Motorcyclts, 150cc                          8       6        48      6        48       6        48       6       48                                            192         60
Office Machines, Equipment and
Furniture                                                300                                                                                                 300         50
Subtotal                                  612               222               48                48                                            930         57
Subtotal Outgrm.iara                          612             2,929            1,743               378              750               875       7,287         83
June 20, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Costs
Agricultural Capital Costs 1/
Ramisi
(KShs. '000)
Foreign
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5           Year 6                      Exchange
No. Amount      No. Amount       No. Amount       No. amount       No. Amount       No. Amount         Total         _
D. LAND CLEARING
Nucleus Estate
Work Performance  Unit Cost                     Ha3/             Ha3/             Ha3/             Ha3/             Ha3/
Hectares Hours
per Hour  per Ha  Unit KShs.
Chain Felling 4/ .    0.30    3.33  Hr  234.46                    564     110     563      110     563      110                                          330         60
Piling  5/            0.30    3.33  Hr   80.80                   564       38     563       38     563       38                                          114         60                   1
Subtotal                                                            148              148              148                                          444         60                   _
Outgrowers
Chain Felling 4/      0.30    3.33  Hr  234.46                   490       96     490       96     490       96     490       96     490       96        480         60
Piling  5/            0.30    3.33  Hr   80.80                   490       33     490       33     490       33     490       33     490       33        165         60
Subtotal                                                            129              129              129              129             129         645         60
Subtotal Land Clearing                                              277              277              277              129             129       1,089         60
Subtotal A, B, C  and D                          2,676            6,855           6,o7o            2,280            2,219            1,765      21,865         83
Physical Contingencies, 10%                  -         268              686             6o07             228              222               176      2,187         83
Subtotal                                     -  2,944             7,541           6,677            2,506            2,44             1,941      24,052         83
Price Contingencies   6/                               118              905           1.345              702              903              912       4,875         83
TOTAL                                       3,062            8,446            8,012            3,210            3,344            2,853      28,927         83
1/ Excluding drainage costs, which are shown in Table 4 and irrigation costs shown in Table 3. Includes incremental costs only.
2 Includes management overhead for Agricultural Department, agricultural research staff, agricultural services, workshop section, and survey unit.
3/ Only 25% of this area is included in land clearing.
4/  Equipment utilized:  two 120/160 HP Crawler Tractors and one 120/160 HP Four-Wheel Drive Tr,wetor.
5/  Equipment utilized:  one 120/160 HP Crawler Tractor.
6/ See Appendix 1.
June 20, 1978
'a,4



- 125-
SUGAR REA8IM ON  PROJECT
Aaricultural Mogo ft ble Comte /
(xshM~o)
Yearly Salary                                                                                                         Foreip
and Benefits        1ntity                                                                                          Zahe.
BKai.)             No.        Year         Year 2      Year 3      Yar 4       Y"r 5       Year 6      Total          S
A. ADW015aC RESEARCH STAFF
Incremental Salaries
Agrunnl.st                        70               1            70          70           70          70          70                     350         --
Assistant Agronmnist              60               1            60          60          60           60          60                     300         --
Secretary                         25               1            25          25          25           25          25                     125         --
Laboratory Staff                  15              10            75         150         150         150                                 67           __
Subtotal                                     230         305         305         305                               1,450
Ineruental Other Fxpenses ?/                                        200                                 400         400                   1.800
Subtotal                                     430          05         705         705          75                   3,250 
B. WORK-SHOP SECTION
Incremental Salaries  2/                                            170         300         300          300         300                  1,370          --
Incremental Other Expenses 2/ 2                                     200         400         400         400          400                  1.800          44
Subtotal                                     37           0                       700          0o                  3,170          25
C. HARVESTING AND TRANSPORTATION SECTION /
Inoremental Salaries                                                                         120         210         210                     540         --
Incremental Other Expenses
Subtata1                                                             201         6tO7         6010                 1,48           30
D. LAND PREPARATION SECTION 2/
Incremental Salaries  J                                              85         120         120          120         120                    565          --
Incremental Other Expenses                                           90         180         180                     180                     810          54
Subtotal                                     175         300         300         300          300                  1,375          32
E. SUBtEY UNIT
Incremental Salaries
Surveyor                          30               1            30          30           30          30          30                     150         --
Assistant Surveyors               15               3            45          45          45          45          N5                     220          --
Subtotal                                      75          75          75           75         75                     375 2-
Inoremental Other Bpbenses  2/                                       45          45          45          45           k5                      7 225     51
Subtotal                                     120         120         120         120          120                    600          19
F. OUTGROWRS DIVISION  2/
Incremental Salaries  /                                            200         320         320          320         320                  1,480          --
Inireiental Other EApenses                                          130         260         260          260         260                  1.170
Subtotal                                     330         580         550         580         550                   2,650         14
G. TRAININN  Z/
Agricultural Traiining  5/ 5o                                                    25          25           25          50                    175         100
Extension Training Abroad  21                                         t8         36           18          36          18                    126         100
Extension Training Locally  32/                                                               12          12          12                     36         --
Subtotal                                      6E          61          55          73          8O                     337         89
Subtotal A, B, C, D, E, F  and G                      1.493       2,466       2,720       3,088       3,095                  12,862         28
Piwsical COntingencies 10                                     149         247         272         309         310                       7
Subtotal                                   1,642       2,713       2,992       3,397       3,405                  l?j,lv2
Price Contingencies     Li/                                    74         375         681       1.097        1.450                  s.677         28
TOTAL                              1,716       3,088       3,673       4,494       4,855                  17,826         28
/ Includes only incremental costs. Does not include Nucleus Estate Divisdon and Agricultural Manager costs because these exist actually; and Drainage and Roads
Maintenance URtit thet are included in the Roads mainteaome costs, Table 30, and Drain    Maintenance costs, Table 4.
2/  Includes travel and moving expenses, vehicle  running costs, printing,  stationary and other supplies, books and periodicals, cemsnications expanses, unifocms,
tool and equipment expenses, fertilizers and chemicals.
2/ Includes 45% incremental of total expenses of the unit.
Includes the expenses considered in note 2 excluding fertilizers and ohusioals.
2/ Does not include salaries for drivers and turn-bas which are ineluded in equipment cperating costs for land preparation, and salaries for cane cutters;
these are included in Table 13 for the nucleus eate end Table 14 for outgroeers.
D/ foes not Include salaries for drivers and turn-boys that are included in the machine land preparation costa per hour (Tables 13 and 14).
2/ For detail see Anmex 13, Table 1.
/ Course of 4-6 months in Mauritius or simnilar other country, costing XSbs 25,000 per person.
2/ Thrse-eonth. course at CDC Training Center, Seaziland or similar institution, costing ESs 18,000 per person.
3    At new Kibos Training Center costing KMs 6,000 per person.
3/ See Appendix 1.
Jose 20, 1978



KE:N!
SUGAR REHABIMITION PROJECT
Airicultural RecuFF nt Non enriable Costs
Chanelil
Yearly Salary                                                                                                       Foreign
and Benefits      Qu*ntity                                                                                       laxcbs
(Kshs.)          No.         year I       ear 2      Ysar 3      year 4      Year 5       Year 6      Total         I
A. WORKSHOP SECTION 2/
Incremental Salaries                                                 95         175         175         175         175                    795         --
Icremntal Other ExpenseI I 2135                                                            245          21350        3                   1             44
SECTION 2               TO
Inoremental Salaries                                                 --          --          70         120         120                    310
Incrmental Other Expenses0J/                                         --                      80         230         230                                48
subtc4l                                       --          --         150         350         35                                - 3
.  LIWO PREPARATICZ  SECTION  / y/
Incremental Salaries                                                 50          70          70          70          70                    330          --
Incrmsental Other E2penses 2/                                        50         100         100         100         100                     450         54
Subtotal                  t                              170          70         170         170 l 
D. SURVE! UNIT
Incremental Salaries
Surveyor                         30                1            30          30          30          30          30                    150         --
Assistant Surveyors               15               3            7      5                            45
Subtotal
Incremental Other Exp___45_45_____l_S_l_S_s___ 51
Subtota                                      14 20       12                                                l-120t2    yOt 
E. ouIXDW DI=II%I k/
Incr_nntal Salaries                                                 140         215         215         215         215                   1,000         __
Incremental Other ExpenBea 2/                                        90         175         17S                                             7
Subtotal                                     230         390         390               390,
F. TAINO   L/
Agricultural Tra g i    /                                            25          25          25          so           25                    150        100
Extension Trainng Abroad 21                                          18          18          36          18           18                    108   . 100
Extension Trining Local39IJ/                                                                 12          12           6                      30         --
Subtotl                                       43          43          73          80          49                     PM-
Subtotal A, B, C, D,  and F                                703       1,133       1,313       1,520       1,489                   6,158         26
Piwoical Conti rll 5, 10C                                      70         tl2 131                 152         i4L                     615         26
Subtotal                                                   773       1,24        t,444       1,672       1,63                    b,773         20
Price Contingencies  L/                                        35         173         329         476         699                   1712          26
TOTAL                                                oOc       1,419       1,773       2,114       2,337                                 2 5
/  IncludeB onl; incremental costs. Does not include Nulcle  Estate Diviesion sad Agricultural Manager costs becamse those actually exist ully staffed;
and Drainage and Roads Maintenance Unit tb   is included in the Roads maintenence cost, Table 30, and Drainage Maiztemas   coats, Table 4.
y  Incldes 26% incrmtal of total expenses of the unit.
3/ Includes travel and moving expenses, vehicle  running costa, printing, stationwy and other supplies, books ard periodicals, ca,nications expses,
uniforms, tools and equipment expenses.
1 Does not include salaries for drivers end tur-boy  uabich are included in equipent cperating cwsta for land prepatimn, and salaries for cane cutters;
these are inluded ip Table 15 for the nucleaus estate and Table 16 for outgrorere.
$/Dces not Include salaries for drivers and turn-boys thUt are inlouded in the machine land preparation cost per hour (Tables 15 and 16).
6wludes 30C incrmental of total division expenses.
a  For detail see Annex 10t  Table 1.
C Course of 4-6 months in Mauritins or siLtr other country, coating KXSs 25,000 per person.
Three-months dourae at CDC Training Center, Swailand or similar institution, costing XEhs 18,000 per person.
At neai Kibos Training Center costing KSha 6,000 per person.
See Appendix 1.
June 20, 1978



ANN   11
- 127 -
Agric     ulturalRcrobZnVral Costs  1/
!eer3y salary                                                                                                          Foerign
end Beneits       Quantity                                                                                            Fohasga
(ISbs.)            No.       Year 1       ear 2      Year 3       Year 4       erS        Tear 6       Total           X
A. AGhICULTURAL DEPARTMENT
Incresertal Salaries
AgriUlteral Manager  3/          220                 1        220         220          220         220         220                   1,100           70
Secretary                         33                 1                    23           2;          2
Incresental Other Eponesf  i/d                                                 4            452         4945        42                     119            473
Subtotal                                                                                                          2,414
B. A3HONONIC BEEARH STAFF
Inerereet.l Salaries
Agroncrist                        70                 1         70          70           70          70          70                     350            -
Assistant Agronnist               60                 1         60          60           60          60          60                     300            __
Secretary                         25                 1         25          25           25          25          25                                   --
Laboratory Staff                  15                10         75         tS0         150          150         167                                   --
Subtotal                                    230         305         3D5         305          30                   1,450
Inorecental Other Epenses   /                                      200         4             0l0,                                                         67
Subtotal                                   430          705          W5          705         7G5                   3,250           37
C. AGRICULTUSAL  ERHVIC5 DIVISION
Inorenental Salaries
Agricul tural Servioee Division
aidef                 /        165                 1        165         165          165         165         165                     15025          70
Secretary                         30                 1         30           0          70          3 30                                1-50          -
Subtotal                                    195         195         195         tI5          1t5                                   59 9
Inoremortal Otbhr Expnoeos  3/                                     181         242 2442                 242   _      42                   1,149            32
Sobtotal                                    376         437         437          437         437                   2,124           45
D. WORKSHOp 0ECTIO0
Inoremoentil Selaries
Workshop Superintendent            70                1         70           70          70          70           70                     350           --
Workbhop Staff                    iS                1         30          600         600          600         600                   2,700            __
Subtotal                                    370         670         670          670         670                   3,050            --
Incremental Other Rxpensess   /           450                                  900         90        1      
Subtotal                                    220       1,570       1,570        1,770       1,770                   7,5           2c
E. SRVE1 UNIT
Inornoontal Salaries
Surveyor                          30                 1         30          30           30          30          30                      10            --
Assisnt Soreyor                   15                 3         455                                                                     225
n Subtotal                                   75          7           7
45                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~225  51
inoresental Other Sopensee  3/                                      4           85           ICS         I.          45235
12-0        128         1           1000                                               4.9
F. 0AR22STT7G AND TBANSPORTATION SECTION
Ilcreu,ntal Saariee         5/
Superintendent                    70                 1                                  70          70          70                      210           __
SoperVisor.                       35                 6                                 105         210         210                      525           __
Seedcen                           15                12                           _          9      So          180                      450           --
Subtotal                                                            265          460         460 t1,12                             ---
Subtota                                                             565        1,360       1,360                    3,2M5           31
G. IAND PREPARATIO0 5ECTION
Inoreceotal Salariso        5/
SuperSotendent                    70                 1         70          70           70          70          70                      350            --
Overseers                         17                 3 .           51                   Si          51                                  255            --
Sudken                            1S                 6         45          90           90          90           90                     403            --
Field Meohanico                   25                 2         25          5S SO                   SO                                   295           -
Subtotal                                    191         261         261          2bl         201                    1,235           __
Incrementil OtheEpensee  2/                                        200                                                                                      54
inoreccental 0  Subtotal                    391                                                                     1,8bf 553
R. OIIT3NOWERS DI7ISb3N
Inoreceutal Salariee
Ootgrce-re Divioscn Chief        165                 1        165          165         165         i65          165                     825            --
Seoretary                         30                 1         30          30           30          30           30                     150            __
Sapervisors                       35                 4         70          140         140         1140         140                     630            --
Overseers                         17                12        102          204         204         204          204                     918            __
Uesduen                           15                12         90          1o         180          180         180                      810           --
Subtotal                                    457         719         719          7i9         7i9                    3,333           --
T-oraceotal Other  pensec  2/'                                     290         580         580          580         580                     2610           31
Subtotal                                    747        1,299      1,299        1,299       1,299                    5,943           14
I.  TRAINING                    5/
AgriSo ltean Traicing o       /                                     25           25          50           25          25                      150           100
Eotencioc Trainin  Ab     sd                                        10           14          3           36           10                      i26           100
ExtensI.. Training         XV                                                                12           6           12                       30            --
4nbtotal                                     43          43           9c          67          55                       306           90
Subtotal A, 0, C, 2, 5, F, 0, H and I                      3,361       5,330        5,950       6,9!14       6,902                   28,457            3
Physloal Oontingenoiec , 122                                   336         533        59           692        6do                      2.846            30
P...Cctgsoi,Subtotal                                    3,697        5,063       6, 1+4       ,06         75231333
Proce Ccntingencieo    f/                                      16a 812               1.1490       2.453       35228                    8147              30
TOTAL                3,861        6,675       8,035      10,059       10,820                   39,450            30
.~ ~~      ~-e.   D. _. .t . ._ __          _.
5/ Includes only inoreosnoal oosts.   oes not inoluds Nuclsus Estata Oivisien costs becnnso that Dtivtien  ectually e-statie fY stuffsd, end the Draiogs and RSodi
MT.Ioabte r Unite. dtht.tDoit iOincluded in the Roads Maintenance Gosts, Tlble 30, end Drainage Maintennce coust., Tlbia 4.
/  Inclodes travel nod noving expenses, vehicle  r-ening masta, printing,  stationary and other supplies, bwoks and periodiSals, o-euanications expenaes, uni4fs-c,
tools, end equipe-t copense,.
5/ Inclodec the e-pen-es  described in note 2 pIns fertiliuers end chehials.
Y   Do  s net inclode salories for drivers and turn-boys chick   ete ioluded in eqoipfent operating costs fur Land prepsratioo, and sal1riee f-r cane cutters;
theec are ticloded in Table 17 for the necles estate end 18 for 0ctgrs,ers.
6   Dos- not itnclude .saIries for drivers and turn-beys that are included in the achine cowts per heur for land preparation (Tablea 17 And 18).
7/For detnil see 515Ex 10. Table 1.
/ Co"ree of 4-6 xmonths inL Mauritius or similar other country, costing KSh- 25,000 per pereen.
2/ Three-,onth, coure^ at CDC Training Center, SanSiland or scimlar institution, cestin3  tShs. 18,000 par pereon.
/   At coo Ktiboc Trsining Center, oosting IMs 6,000 per parson
!2/ Soe Appendix I
June 20, 1978



bANI 12
- 122 -
md BEmfita        Qusantit
([8,.               No.it        Y e, ar i    lr 2        Tear 3       Yer 4        Te. 5        Yesr 6      Total          2
A. AoaIOaTrL DEFIPA       T
Inoraesetal salertee22                                                                                                                                         T
AIrial RBl MNage                                     1 220  1     n2           220          220         220                                1,1.00         70
4 N 1  M - ger 3t   220                          ~~      ~    ~      ~     ~    ~ ~~33  33  .1t      R1163_
Secretary                          33                1                           ,         25
toeraneutal ou    3,a b ease   2/                                i2                                    242
noareem"  Other Expenses    |                                         10           4S          -495         2495         4                     2,4141         is
Subtotal
B. ABONOWE0  "2I2 L 07.TFF
Incre2cautl Saasre-7
Ag ronoist                          70                1            60           60           60          60           60                     350          --
Assistant Agrou2X.t$t              60                1              00                       600                      6030                                -
Setcrtary                          25                1             25           25          25           25           25                     125          -
laboratory Staff                   15               10            25           150          150         305          150                     675
Izerellegal Other 13x eS.btotal.                                       200          400                                                                        37 3t  3 
T.-r-cw   O   Zopaqnass  k/                                                                              7051         15                    3,250          5
Sdabtotal                                      2430        -M
C. AGRICUC3LYOAL SELVICtS DIVISION
Iocnnuol Salaries
Ag0i2t1orl SericeDi               165                1            1o65         165          165         165          165                     895          70
Secretary                          30109                                       1515                                                           50~
Iacrewntal  tLer    Subtotal                                      37h          1           437          437           37                     9            5,99
D.  IOPJ0 1130SXF Ig 11       bt
Tr.oreestO  Salaries                                                    170         30           300          300         300                    1,3OO70
Ic-rcentoa Other  opeaceef  I/                                         200                       242         24                                  1,0 400
Subtotal                                       370          700          700         700          700                    3,170         a5
0.  W1i18701 UNIT   N
Thoroemetal Oal*rlca
Sorveyer                           3U                1             30          30           30           30          30                      150          --
asisutlnt Surveyor        ~       ~ IS34                                        o           4             5          4                        2 _______________________________________
Iocrernetal Other  openaes s        /                                   45           45          4          - 40,         400
Subtotal                                       120          120         120         170           120                   6300            1
F.  HAH1V UNIT     TRANSFOATSO8
Ie-reae,otal Salaries                                                                            120         210          210                      54U          __
I,Nreclootal Otber Erpensee      3/                                                              140          403          400                      9140        48
Sel,t3tal3                                                              260          610          610                   1S 0            30
0. LANID PRSPAASTO71N INOTTON J/ 2
In Arasental Salarieo                                                   95          170          170         120          120                      565          __
Thoree,enta]. Otber 2xaenase    2/                                       90         180          180          180_         180_     8_                          514 
Subtotal                                       17S          300         300          300          30                                  =
F. O1HAM         A!0 885  01015A0
Incraoental Salaries
Outgrole,ro Deioiuon ChieSf        165                1           165          165         165          165          idS                      615          --
Secreta r                          30 p                            30           30          30           30          30                       150          --
Supervisors                     5               4             70t140                   260         140          1'0                      630          -0
Overseers                           17              142           102          204        204         2404         2044                     918          -
beadcan                             1S              17             20          120          180         180          180                      610          --
Subtotal                                       1457         719         719          7t9         7119                    3,33           --
Inoreaental Other E&penses       /                                     290          500          580          580         580                     0.610         51
Sbtotal                                        7147       1,299       1,299          300299    70299                     5,943          1
I. THIIIG4    4/
IAcrinultual Tralaries0,5                                                                          5           5           2510                                 0
Extension Trai.ntng Abroad   35                                         36           53           326         18           18/5                     56        100
Extegolon Tralining   ocallh  1/                                                                  6      _    12           12                        30      _  --
Eubtotal                                        61          68           67           550         55                       150
otutal  ,  , 0,  , 5,  ', 0 srd 5                        2,713        4,124        4,383       4,72i        4,721                    00,662         30
F70lcal OCatlogencies, 101;                                       27.          412          433        a72          472                     29065         30
Subtotal                                                 2,9b4 t4,536            4lo,19 1      5,193        57193                   22 727           3
Frice Oontin6egeieo S   2/                                        136          631        1.102       1.694        2.232                    S.759S         30
TOTJa                                                  3,120        5,167       5,923        6,827        7,425                    8,520          30
2/  Includes only incroccutal costa.  00cc not Suclude Macieees SeDate 0Dividon coat, because theRe exist actusallw fully RtaRffed, sao  OreScat,eesn  Roa d O7lteaoce
Unit that Os  included Sn the  oRode 0(alzoteoaroe Goats, Table 30, er.d Sretee  ltatteoanae costs, Table 14.
4/   To be recruited initer.atioey 3.
2/ Inolede       b travel  and rovirg  peas, Pe,iGle  rnDH2eg aoats, pretIng,  statoan ry and  other supplies, books and perido2cal0s, C CI_              2  3_)  oifoona,
tools, and equloo,ent e,e,ne-see.
/  Include, the ecoenses described in note 2 plea fertilizer, and chmical2s.
atn oAde   46W1 jnraenta7 of totalT eane  oftts eaSt.                                                                    and eler8ee Per cne c,chtr.
tOe, ec OneTinlued in fable 19 far the cuslace estate end Table 20 for outgsrceTs.
I/  Does not intlude raleries for  drivers  nod  Ion-boysd tut asre dnaelided in the  bac ans coste Per hour tor l    nd preparftia d (Tables  19 and 20)..
For de     see Ac ed 00. Table 1 .
l ouree of 4X-6 elatutb inl 1ritiTs or siellar ether country, ceetiog 5Ebs 25,000 per person.
10/  T.rbe-.rthc curse at C3C Tio aL g Cnter, Saand or iniler jnatitution, eCetbg 282. 18,000 per pert.
Yj/  At rn ud s14   Treinle   Tenter of etiag lxTs 6,000 per pLramn.
)/  Sea  Appbendix t.
Jose 20. 1978



-129-    Iable13
SlX}iR RUBlff  RJIIC
4rcltrl t n     is V         Costs
unit Cost                                                                                                            _t.bg*
(tubh.)         lear 1         lear 2        Year 3          er- 4        lowr 5         Year 6         Total          2
A. NSHSERIES      (ha)               Per Hectare           300            300           300            300           300
Land Preparation       1/            1,108                            332           332            332           332                       i,66o          6o
Planting, Year I'                    1,485  /
Planting Operations    g               421             --             126           126            126           126                         950         24
Field Maintenance                      770             231            231           231            231           231                       1,155          10
Fertilizers                            736             221            221           221            221           221                       1,105          77
Harvesting              /              280              a4 84                        84             34            8                          40           --
Subtotal,                              1,314            994           994            99h            994                      2,2            4
B. PLAIT CROP
TeerovedlHusbanldry Land (ha)                                    640            640           640            640
i.nugreparation        2'              222                            11*2           .2            122 147 568                                            6o
Planting Operations    S/               93                             60            60            6o             60                         243          27
Field Maintenace         /             154                             9996                                                                               l
Fertilizers           1.3/             147                            0c4                                                                    376          78
Subtotal                                          395           395                          395                       1,5'o0         47
C. hATOON CROP    (ha)                                                                                 640         1,120
Field Xaintenanee    11/               985                                                         630         1,103                       1,733          28
Fertilizers          1                 328                                                         210            67                         577          80
Subtotal                                                                       c40         1,470                       2,310          41
D. HARVESTING       (cane 'OOOt)                                                                        12            19
Per Ton
Manual Cut)ings       1/                 3.5                                                        42            67                         109          --
E. CANE TRANSPORT  (cane 'OO0t)                                                                         12            19
Transportation       14/                27                                                         324           513                         837         60
Subtotal A, B, C, D, E                 1,314         1,389          1,389         2,             3,2 31,126                                 43
Physical Contingenciei105%                    L31           139            139           0E0                                       11 _          43
Subtotal                          1,445         1,,p8          1, 28         2,855          3,703                      11139          43
Price Contingen6ies 12/                        58           183            306           799          1.100                       :.7146         43
TOTAL             1,503          1,7f1         1,834          3,654         5,183                      13,885          43
I/ Includes:
Ripping which utilizes 160/180 HP crawler trantor with ripper (4.2 hours per hectare) costing KShs 399 per bectare for 65% of total area and 120/160
HP crawler tractor with ripper (4.6 hours per hectare) costing Kahs 396 per hectare for 35% of total wea.
Ploughing which utili.es 160/iaO HP crawler tractor with heav RHone plough (2.8 hours per hectare) costlng Huhs 266 per hectare for 65% of
total area and 90/120 HP 4-wheel driv  tractor with disc plough (2.8 heous per hectare) costing as 241 per hectare for 35% of total ara.
- Harrowing which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with Home harrow (2.1 hours per hectare) costing KShs. 181 per hectare.
F-urrwing which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-theal drive tractor with ridging bodies (1 .6 hours pr hectre) costing KShe. 109 per heeters.
Uprootjg cane stubs which utilizes 120/160 HP crawler tractor with RHoe plough (1 .9 hours per hectare) costing  MBbs 163 per hectare.
2/Includes:
-Heat treatment of seed cane at KShc 103 par hectere.
- Seed transport at YShs 88 per hectare.
- Manual Planting (20 mandops per hectare at KShs 9.20 per day) costing E8hs 184 per hactare
- Gapping (5 sandays per hectore at bShs 9.20 per day) costing KShs 46 per hectare.
3/ Includes only for Year 1:
- 7t of seed cane per hectare (purchased at aShs 152) costing Y8hs ,064 per hectare.
4/ Includes:
- Twoe hillings which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-wheel drive tractcr with spring tines and ridging bodies (3.2 hoors per hectare) costing KShs. 2L8 per hectare.
- Four manual weedings  (15 mandays per weeding at KHhs 9.20) costing HShe 552 per hetars.
5/Includes:
- Application (2 nendray two tines at HShs 9.20) ousting Mhs 37.
- Fertilizer transportation at HSh3 I per hectare.
- Sulphate of Azmonia - 268 kg at HShs 1,150 per ton costing HSh3 308 per hectare.
- Triple Superphosphato 250 kg at XShs 1,560 per ton costing XShs 390 per hectare.
6   Includes cane cutters assuming 80 t cane prodaction per hectare (3t per mnnday at XShs 1 0.50) costing XShs 280.
7   Includes 2Q% of the operatins described in note 1.
Includes 20% of:
- Chemical treatment at 8hus 145 per hectare.
- Seed transport at KShs 88 per hctare.
- Manual planting at ash 1t84 per hectare.
- Gappiog at Huhs 46 per hectare.
2/ Includes 25% of the operations described in note 4.
j/ Includes 20% of the operations and fertilizers described in note 5.
/   Includes the operations dencribed in note 4 plus subsoaling which utili.es 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ripper (2.5 hours per hatare) oosting HShs 215 per hectare.
2/ Includes:
- Sulphate of Asnonia - 268 kg (at HShs 1,150 per ton) costing aShs 308 per hentare.
- Application  isandays at KShs 9.20) and transportation costing HShs 20 per hectw-..
13 Includes cane cutters whc out 3t of cane Per msnday at aShe 10.5, costing HShs 3.5 per tee.
15/  Includes:
- Cane transportation which utilises 65/90 HP tractcr and 8t capacity traIler, single axle (3.7t per hoor at XSha 78 Pr hour) costing XShs 21 per ton.
- Cans loader which utilizes Flex Beem loader 4-wheel drive hydrostatic with front piler (23t per hour at XShs 69 per hour) costing HShs 3 per ton.
- Support equipment nosting a3hs 3 per ton.
L2/ See Appendic 1.
June 20, 1978



Ai= ll
Table 14
-130-
SUGR E=/>l             Pz OJI
Agriulra few;           aiable Costs
Foreign
Unit cOt                                                                                                            lachang,
(Eta.)           Year 1        Year 2        year 3         Year 4        Year 5        year 6        Total            %
A. PLAli COP?
frlusbandrr Land  (ha)                                             1,240         1,240          1,240         i, 240
Per Hectare
land Preparaticn       1/             233                            289           289            289           289                      1,156           60
Planting Operations    2/              97                            120           120            120           120                        480           27
Field Maintenane                      248                            308           308            308           308                      1,232           10
Fertilizers                           219                            272           272            272           272                      1,038           78
Subtotal                                   9K9           939           989            989                      3,9)0           4)
Reclaimed Fallow Land  (ha)                                          100            100           100           100
LAnd Preparation       5/           1,111                            111           71             111           111 i444                                  6o
Planting Operations                   11 463                          46            46             46            46                        184            27
Field Maintenance      7              828                             83            83             83            83                        332            10
Fertilizers            /             729                             7373                                                                 292            78
Subtotal                                  313            313           313            3
Newly Dveloped lnd  (ha)                                             460           460            460           460
Land Preparation       2              948                            436           436            436           436                      1,744            60
Planting Operations    b/             463                            213           213            213           213                        852            27
Field Maiintenance     7!             828                            381           381            381           381                      1,524 -          10
Fertilizers                           729                            335           335            335           335                      1,34o            78
Subtotal                                1,365          1,365         1,365          1,365                      54cO            45-
Irrigated Land  (ha)                                                               260            260           260
Land Preparation      10            1,003                                          261            261           26i                        783            60
Planting Operations                   463                                          120            120           120                        360            27
Field Maintenance                     8 828                                        215            215           215                        645            10
Fertilizers                         1,003                                          26,            261           261                        783            78
Subtotal                                                 857           c57           857                       2,571           4W
B. RTOTON CRWP   (ha)                                                                               1,995         3,600
Field Maintenance     12/           1,043                                                       2,081         3,755                       5,836           28
Fertilizers           ly2             355                                                         694         S.7                        1,2              So
Subtotal                                                             2,775         5,033                       7,000            41
C. hARVESTINO   (cane *OOot)                                                                           8o           i36
Per Ton
Maual Cuttings        14/               4-5                                                       360           612                         972           __
D. CAS TUANSFORT  (cane 'ooot)                                                                         80           i36
Transportation        ;/               27                                                      2,160          3,672                       5,832           6o
Subtotal A, B, 0, D                      2,667         3,524         8,819         12,841                     n2 785            4b
Plvsical Contingencies,i1L                            267           352           882          1.28                                        46
Subtotal                                    2,934         3,8726        92701         14,125,
Price Oontingencies 36/                               352           775         297i6         5.226
loTAL                         3,286         4,651         12,417        19,351                      39,705            46
3/ Includes 21% of,
- Ripping which utilizes 160/18O HP crawler tractor with ripper (4.2 hours per hectere) costing KShs 399 per hectare for 76% of total area and 120/160 HP crawler
tractor wLth ripper (4.6 hours per hectare) costing KIS. 396 per hectare for 24% of total area.
- Ploughing which utilizes 160/18o HP crawler tractor with heavy Raze plough (2.8 hourg per hectare) costing KEht 266 per bectare for 76% of total area and
90/120 NP 4-wheel drive tractor with disc plough (2.8 hours per hectare) coating Ktha 241 per hectare for 24% of total area.
- Harrowing which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with Rose harrow (2.1 hours per hectare) costing KShs. 181 per hectere.
- Furrowing which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-heel drive tractor idth ridging bodies (i.6 hours per hectare) costing  bShs. lO9 per hectare.
- Dproothg cane stubs wbinh utilizes 120/160 HP crawler tractor with Rane plough (1.9 hours per hectsre) coating Khs. 163 per hectare.
3/Includes 21% of.     a   t   15prbcae
- Chemical treatrnt at K3hs 145 per hectare.
- Seed trarsport at KShs 88 per hectare.
- Manual planting (20 mandeys per hectare at KSta. 9.20 per day) costing KEbs 184 per hectare.
- Gapping (5 mandqs per hectare at Eta 9.20 per dq) costing xbhs 46 per hectare.
- Uprooting cane stubs which utilizes 120/160 HP crawler tractor with Raze plough (i .9 hours er hectare) costing KEa 163 per hectare.
Includes 30% of six manual weedings (15 mandayg per weeding at KSbe. 9.20) costing KShs. 52  per hectare.
/ Includes 30% of:
- Application (2 mandays two times at KEia 9.20) costing KhEt 37.
- Fertilizer transportation at KShs i per hectare.
- Sulphate of Awnia - 262 kg at KEh. 1,150 per ton costing KEas. 301 per hectare.
- Triple Superphosphate - 750 kg at Kts. 1,560 per ton costing KEs. 390 per hectare.
5/ Includes 100% of the operations described in note 1.
Includes 100% of the operations described in note 2.
Includes 10 L  of the operations described in note 3.
/ Includes I OQE of the operations and irpata described in note 4.
2/ Includes 100E of the operations described in note 1 excluding uprooting of cane stubs.
10  Includes 100% of the operations described in note 7 except uprootirg cane stubs which includes ony 34% of this operation.
/ Includes:
- Sulphate of Acrmonia - 500 kg (at KSha 1,150 per ton) costing KShs. 575 per hectare.
- Triple Superphosphate costing Est 390 per hectare.
_ Application and transportation costing XShs 38 per hectere.
/   Includes 100% of the operations described in note 3 plus subsoiling which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-theal drive trastor with ripper (2.5 hours per hectare) costing
KSEt 215 per hectare.
13/ Includes:
- Sulphate of Amsonia - 291 kg at KShE 1,150 per toe costing KSha 335 per hectere.
_ Application (2 mandys at K3aE 9.20) and transportation, costing tSha 20 per hectare.
3i  Includes:
- Cane cutters uho cut 2.6t cane per manday (75% burn and 25% green cane) at KEhs 10.5 per mandar costing KSEa 4 per ton.
- Trash lining assuming 42t cane production per hectare (10 mandays per hectere at 9.20) for 25% of area, coating Es. 0.50 per ton
1/ Includes:
- Cane transportation which utilizes 65/90 HP tractor ad 8t capacity trailer, single axle (3. 7t per hour at KShE . 78 per hour) costing KSh. 21 per ton.
- Cane loader, which utilizes Flex Boon loader (23t per hour at KSEa 69 per hour) costing KSEa 3 per hour.
_ Support equipnent costing ESta 3 per ton.
L3/ See Appendix l
June 20, 1978



- 13A -1
WaR
sW^a BB  ect Co       Cost
Aolultural HeiiirArearlabS'le Costs
ChOnsll - liucleis Eatate
(KShe 'ODO)
Foreign
Unit Cost                                                                                                           Exchange
(Y.s.)           Year I        Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5        Year 6        Total
A. AOURSESIES   (ha)                                       290           290           290            290           290
Per Hectare
Land Preparation       1/           1,106              321           321           321            321           321                     1,6C             60
Planting, year 1                    1l485              4 431
Planting OpertIons                    1421             --            122            122           122           122                        919           24
Field Maintenance                     770              223           223           223            223           223                      1,115           10
Fertilizers                           738              214           214            214           214           214                      1,070           77
Harvesting             2/             280               81            81            81             8i            81               _          5
Subtotal                            1,270            961           961           961            961                      ,11             '
B. PtANTC CROP
~!usbarnd  Lend  (ha)                                      600           600            600           600
Land Preparation       7/              88                             53            53             53            53                        212           6o
Planting Operations m   /              37                             22            22             22            22                         88           27
Field Maintenance      2/              77                             46            46             46            46                       i184           10
Fertilizers            0               74                             44             44 44                                                 176           78
Subtotat                                             165           16            16              65                                      4b
Irrigated Land  (ha)                                                               230            230           230
Lad Preparation        V            1,106                                          254            254           254                        762           6o
Planting Operations   11/             463                                          106            106           106                        31  -         27
Field Maintenance      i/             770                                          177            177           177                        531            10
Fertilizers           ft            1,003                                          231            231           231                        693           78
SubtotA76c  763                                                                                 768                      2,304           4Y)
C. RATVON CROP  (ha)                                                                                  772         1,395
Field Maintenance     13/             985                                                         760         1,374                      2,134            28
Fertilizsrs      u to                 41i                                                         317           573
Subtotal                                                                       1,077          1,947
D. HARVESTING    (cane 'O0Ot)                                                                          13            24
Per Ton
MasIu Cuttings        35/               3.5                                                        46            84                        130            --
E. CANE TRANSPORT  (cane 'OOOt)                                                                        13            24
Transportation        1/               27                                                         351           648                        999            60
Subtotal A, B, C, D, E              1,270          1,126         1,894         3.368          4,573                     12,231            45
Physical Contingencies 10%                 127            113           189            33? 457                                1,223            45
Subtotal                            1,397          1,239         2,083         3,703          5,030                     13,54             457
Price Contingacies  5/          7           56           149           k                      417 1.         _               3.520             4
TOTAL            1,453          1,38-         2,500         4,742         6,891                      16,974            45
/ Includes:
- Ripping which utilizes 160/180 HP crawler tractor With ripper (4.2 hours per hectare) coating ESha 399 per laectre for 61% of total area eand 120/160 HP
crawler tractor with ripper (4.6 hours per hectare) costing KSIS 396 per hectars for 39% of total wea 
- Ploughing whish utilises 160/180 HP crawler trator with heawy REae plough (2.8 hours per hectare) costing tas 266 per hectare fer 61% of total area
and 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with disc plouh (2.8 hours per hectars) costing KS[a 241 per heotre for 39% of total area.
- Harrowing which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive trator with 2cme harrow (2.1 hours per hectare) oesting[ K[hs. 181 per hectare.
- Furrowing which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ridging bodies (1.6 hours per hectare) costing KShe. 109 per hgctsre.
- Uprooting cane stubs which utilizes 120/i60 HP orawler tractor with REre plough (1.9 hours per hbetere) costing NSas 163 per hectare.
2/Includes:
H Neat treatment of seed cam at KShs 103 per hecta'e.
- Seed transport at K[he 88 per hectare.
- Mamnla planting (20 osandays per hectare at KShg 9.20 per day) costing KShs 184 per heotare.
- Gapping (5 nandays per hectare at KSha 9.20 per day) costing KShe 46 per hectare.
2/ Includes only for Year 1 - 7t of seed cane per hectare (purchased at KSbs 152) costing ESht 1,064 pa' hectare.
4/ Includes:
- Two hillings which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with spring tines and ridging bodies (3.2 hours per hectare) costing KShs. 218 per hectare.
- Four manual weedings (15 mandays per weeding at K8h, 9.20) costing KEhs 552 per hectare.
Includes:
- Application (2 mandays, two tines at KEhs 9.20) costing Ebhs 37'
- Fertilizer transpOration at KSBb 1 per hectare.
- Sulphate of Ameonia - 270 kg at KShs 1,150 per ton costing KShs 310 per ton.
- Triple Superphosphate - 250 kg at Kabs 1,560 per ton oosting KShe 390 per hectare.
4/ Include cane cutters assuming 8Ot cane production per hectare (3t per omnday at KShs 10.50) costing KShe 280.
_/ includes 8% of the operations described in note 1.
2/ Includes 8% of:
- Chonical treatment at KShs 145 per hectare.
- Seed transport at KShs 88 per hectare.
- Manual pianting at ESho 184 per hectar.
- Gapping at KShs 46 per hectare.
2/ Inlcudes 10% of the operations described in mote 4.
/   Inoludes 10% of the operations and inputs described in note 5.
/   Includes 1006 of the operations described in note 8.
3/ Includes:
- SulPhate of Asooia - 500 kg (at KShs 1,150 per ton) costing KShs 575 per hotare.
- Triple Superphoophate costing K[Sh 390 per hotare.
- Application and trarnporation costing KShs 38 per hetare.
I/ includes the operations described in note 4 plw  subsoiling which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ripper (2.5 hours per hectare) costing
Echo 215 per hectare..
3/ Includes:
- Sulphate of Amswcnia - 340 kg at KSho 1,150 per ton costing KShs 391 per hectere.
- Application (2 mandays at KShs 9.20) and transportation costing KShs 20 per hbcte'.
1    Includes cane cutters  who  cut 3t of cane per manday at KSho 10.5 costing 3.5 per ton.
j/Includes:
- Cane transporation which utilizes 65/90 HP tractor and 8t capacity trailer, single axle (3.7t per hour at EShs 78 per hour) costing KSho 21 per tm.
- Cane loader which utilizes Flex Boni loader 4-wheel drive hydrostatic with front piler (23t per hour at K[Sh 69 per hour) costing ESho 3 per ton.
- Support equipment costing KShs 3 per ton.
7J See Appendix 1.
Jine 20, 1978



-132-
~~~~~IYA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tabl=e 
SMAR REMEMON fflOJFCT
Agricultural   eirOntV
Foreign
Unit Coat                                                                                                          Exchang
(Eta.)        sYar 1           rear 2        rear 3         Year 4        rTear 5       Tear 6        Total           Z
A., PLANT CROP
tanror    'badrs n and  (ha)   Per Rectere                         1,700         1,700          i,l00         1.700
Land Preparatians      1/             231                            393           393            393           393                      1,572           6o
Planting Operations    2               97                            165           i65            165           165                        660           27
Field Maintenance      2              207                            352           352            352           352                      i,408           10
Fertilizers            4/              190                           323           323            323           323                      1,297
Subtotal                                           1,233         1,233                         1    ,23                 4,932
Reclaimed Fallow land (ha)                                            60            60             60            60
land Preparation        /           1,098                             66            66             66            66                        264           60
Planting Operations    6Y             463                             28            28             28            28                        112           27
Field Maintenance      2/             828                             50            50             50            50                        200           10
Fertilizers            5/             758                                                         1 45  450
Subtotal                                             189           19            I9             19                        756
Newly Developed Land  (ha)                                           200           200            200           200
Land Preparatian       9/             935                            187           187            187           187                        748           6o
Planting Operations    5              463                             93            93             93            93                        372           27
Field Maintenance      7/             828                            166           166            166           166                        664           10
Fertilizers            2/             758                            152           152            152           152                       606            78
Subtotal                                             598           598           598            598                     2,392
B. RATOON CROP       (ha)                                                                           1,960         3,430
Field Maintenance      /            1,043                                                       2,o44         3,577                      5,621           28
Fertilizers           11/             350                                                         686         1,8200                      ,86
Subtotl                                                                        2,730          4,777                     7,507            4i
C. NARVESTING       (cane 'OOOt)                                                                       46            75
Per Ton
Manual Cuttings      is                  4.5                                                      207           338                        545           --
D. CANE TRANSHORT  (cane 'ooot)                                                                        46            75
Transportation        QI               27                                                       1,242         2,025                      3,267           60
Subtotal A, B, C, D                                2,020         2,020         6,199         9,60                      19,39945
Physical Contingencies, fIlU                              202           202           620            916                      1.940           45
Subtotal                                           2,222         2,222         6,19          10,076                    21,339            45
Price Contingencies Th/                                   267           444         1,909          3.728                      6 348           45
TOTAL                           2,489          2,666         8,728        13,804                     27,687           45
/ Includes 21% of:
- Ripping wtich utilizes 160/180 HP crawler tractor witb ripper (4.2 hours per hectare) ousting K&s 399 per hectare for 27% of total area and 120/160 NP crawls
tractor with ripper (4.6 hours per hectare) costing ESts 396 per hectare for 73% of total area.
- Ploughing which utilizes 160/180 NP crawler tractor with heavy Rume plough (2.8 hours per hectare) costing KEa 266 per hectsre for 27% of total area ad
90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with disc plough (2.8 hours per hectare) costing KSs 241 per hectare for 73% of total area.
- Harrowing which utilizes 90/120 gF 4-wheel drive tractor with RHm harrow (2.1 hours per hectare) cos tEng Eths.181 per hectare.
- Furrowing which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ridging bodies (1.6 hours per heetsre) costing ESbs. 109 per hectre.
-Uprootkg cane rtubs which utilizes 2C1i60 HP crawler tractor with ploagh (t .9 hours per hectare) costing ESts 163 per bectare.
/ Includes 21% of:
- Chemical treatnent at Eaw 145 per hectare.
- Seed tranBpwt at Etba 88 per hectare. _
- Manual planting at Esta 184 per hectare.
31  Inculudea25a  ho  46 per heeiing  (15 nandars per weeding at EShs. 9.20)costing ESbs. 828 per bectare.
2 Includes 25% of:
- Application (2 mandas two times at KShs 9.20) costing IShs 37 per hectare.
- Fertilizer trasportation at KSha i per hectare.
- Sulphate of Ansonia - 287 kg at EShs 1i150 per ton costing ESha 330 per hectire.
- Triple Superphosphate - 250 kg at KSta i,560 per ten costing KEa 390 per hectare.
5   Includes 10C  of the operatiow  described in note 1.
66  Includes 10C  of the operations described in note 2.
Y  Includes I0CU of the operations described in note 3.
Includes 10OQ  of the operations and inputS described in note 4.
J  Includes 1 0C% of the operations described in note 1 including uprooting of cane itubs.
32   Includes I 00E of the operations described in note 3 plus subsoiling which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ripper (2.5 hours per hectare) costing
KStS 215 per hectare.
I/ Includes:
- Sulphate of Amonia ' 287 kg (at KSEa 1,150 per ton) costing ESbs. 330 per bectere.
- Application (2 mandays at KShs 9.20) and transportation costing KEts 20 per hectare.
3/ Includes:
- Cane cutters who  cut 2.6t cane per manday (75% burn and 25% green cane) at ESht  10.5 per mandq, coating Kis 4 per ton.
- Trash lining assuming 42t cane production per hectare (10 mandaps per hectare at 9.20) for 25% of area costing EShs 0.50 per tin.
1/ Includes:
- Cane transportation which utilises 65/90 HP tractor aI 8t capacity trailer, single axle (3.7t per hour at KEs 78 per her) costing EShs 21 per ton.
- Cane loader which utilizes Flex Boom loader (23t per hour at KEs 69 per hour) costing KEhs 3 per ton.
- Support equipment costing Ets 3 per ton.
see Appendix 1.
June 20, 1978



AM 11
- 133 -
mut
8BCU RMIITDIOUIRMW
Aarloultnral Uswrsnt Variable Coats
(Robs '000)
Permiss
Unit Cost
(lobs.)         Sear I        Y-r 2          y er 3       YSr 4          YearS          Year 6      TOTAL
A. NURSiRIES    (ha)                                        265           265            265          265            265
Per Rooters
Land Peeparation        V            1,096              291           291            291          291            291                     1,455               60
Planting, Yenr I       2/            1,486  3/          394
Pleeting operatione    2/              421              --            112            112          112            112                                         24
Field Maintenance       4/             770              204           204            204          204            204                     1,770 10
Fertilizers             5/             756              200           200            200          200            200                     10
Hareneting       6/V            tOO                744                          74           74       4                              370               -
Subtotal                                   1.3             8841          8841          881            74 48667                                   42
B. PLANT CROP
106           106           106           106
IDrsoraed Huebanday Lan (ha)
Lend Preparation       7/              220                             23             23           23             23                        92               60
Plantirg operations    0/               93                             10             10           10             10                        40               27
Field lMinternone      9/              154                             16             16           16             16                        64               10
Fertilisre            10/              151                             16             16           16             16                        64               78
Subtotal                                                     65            63            65            65                       2tO r
Reclaimed Falte lland    (ha)                                         120            120          120            120
Lend Preparation       1/            1,098                            132            132          132            132                       528               60
Planting operations   11/              463                             56             56           56             56                       224               27
Field Maitienanc-      4/              770                             92             92           92             92                       368               10
Fertilizers            1J              756                             91             91           91             91                       364              7T
SIctotat                                                    371           371           37i           371                      1,4U4              47
Neeflo Inve:oned Land     (ha)                                         80             80           80             80
Land Preparation       12/             935                             75             75           75             75                       300               60
Planting Oporatione    11/             463                             37             37           37             37                       148               27
Field Maintenance      _1              770                             62             62           62             62                       248               10
Fertilinere            3/              756                             60             60            0             60                       240               78
Subtotal                                                    234           234           234           234                        970              0
Irrigated Land           (ha)                                                        160          170            170
Lcd Preparatio.s      1/            1,098                                           176          187           1I7                        550               60
Planting Oper-tioie   11/              463                                            74           79             79                       232               27
Field Matotenante      _/              770                                           123          131            131                       385               10
Fortili.ens           131            1,003                                           160          170            170                       M00
Subtotal                                                                   33           567           567                      1,667              49
C.  RATOON CROP             (ha)                                                                       426           784                      1,210
Field  aintenance     14/              985                                                        420            'F2                     1,192               28
Fertili esr           13/              424                                                        181            3R2                       513               6O
Subtotal    -                                                                           601         1,104                      1,705
.  hARVESTING    (an  'OOt)              Per T                                                         29             49
Manual nIttinge        16/               3.5                                                       102           172                        274              __
0. CANE TRANSPORT (tone '000t)                                                                          29            49
Transportation        1L/               27                                                        783          1,323                     2,106               6o
S.btetnl A, B, C  D, E                     1,163          1,551         2,084         3,604         4,717       '13,719                            b
P3hynital Contingeecien;,lOYRo%                                  IS1           208           ot t.;12                                                   46
SobtotaL                                   1,27a          1,706         2,M           3 965         5                         14 li                4
Nrine Cootigeang ee UI                                           205           458         I 29  12  20                             3.744               46
TOTAL                         1,330         1,911          2,730        5,075          7,109                    18,175               46
- Ripping whith atili.en 160/180 HP trwler treetnr with ripper (4.2 hours pee hbct-es) coeting Rshb  399 per baotaee far 31% of total  area sd 120/160 HFP cnler te,ctor
with ripper (4.6 hours per hentare) tasting  bSe 396 per hnante for 697 of tota  are.
- Pleoghing whinh atiliee 160/10O ho cr-a1er tmentor with hnay Ri_e plough (2.8 he-ce per heotarn) oesting MLoS 266 per hectare for 31% of tetel area sad 90/120
HP 4-wheel driva tr_tter with diet plough (2.8 hence per hnttare) netieg ashb  241 per heotere  for 69% tetal resr.
- harro"iag whioh atilises 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive trantor with RoHe hbrrow (2.1 henrc par htetare) ostieg the. 2.0 per hectre.
- Furrowing whith utiltses 60/90 HP 4-wheel drie  trrcter with ridging bodie  (1.6 hours per bhttre) noetieg KBhe. 109 Per hbattre.
- Opra-tingtans stabs which atilises 120/160 hP oreeler treotan with Rots plough (1.9 hours per hectsre) nesting lohb  163 par beoter.
2/  Inludee
- hRet troansaut of send eons at Klhe 103 per hbetr-.
- S--d teansport at KlbS 88 per hontrn.
- Manual planting (20 -odaye per hectare at Kahs 9.20 pee day) nesting lobs 184 per h-ctare.
- Gapping (5 andys per h.ntare ot RoSh  9.20 pee day) .o.ting Klho 46 pee hotar
3/ Inolndee only for Year I
- 7t of e.ed con   per hbottom  (t.eting a8hb  1064 prcrb-sed  t KOhs 152 per tn).
4/ Inclades:
- T.o hillinmwhioh utili-e  60/90 SP 4-whenl driv  trectr  ith spring tin.e  .ad ridging bodien (3.2 hours per hectare) coating KShe. 218 per hotare.
- Four -nanal -oedinge (15 andae per weeding at Ighe 9.20) tasting ahb  552 per bettrs.
5/ lonladas,
- Appliratior (2 ns.d.yo  ego tiea at RShe 9.20) crsting lohs 37.
- Pootilisno tranepertatitn t KRho I pee h.otare
- SuIphate of Aeonie - 285 kg at lSh 1,150 per tan tenting lohb 328 per ha.
- Triple Snpeophoephate - 250 kg  t lohs 1,560 p-r non  tasting Rohb  390 per ha.
6/  Incladon
- C-ne tittors ossu ing 80t  -ae produotion per hertare (3t per ndy  t Rohs 10.50) nesting  oShe 280.
7/ tonlodes 20% of the operations dest.ibed in note 1.
7i/ lnI=dan 20% of
- Rheeniol treatoent at lohb  145 per heotare
- Seed transport at Rshb 88 pen hectre.
-  aneel planting at lshb  184 par heotr-.
- Gapping at K8ha 46 per hetare.
9/  Inoladan 20% of the operations des.rib d in sote 4.
10/  Includes 20% of the oporatione and inputs dnr-ibod is otn 5.
11/  Intlados 100% of the oeratioens deenrihbd in nate 8.
12/ InoIdee operations deerribed in note I enoluding uprooting of cane stube.
13/  InoIdee.:
-      Sulphate of   xnLi 500 hg (at ahb  1,150 per ton).
- Triple SR rphAsphate nesting KShe 390 per hect-rn
- Application  nd. traaspertation aSh  38 per hstsre.
14/  Icldos tho operation-  doacribhd in not. 4 plus subsoiling whi1h etili.es  90/120 HP 4-whaol driv- tractor with ripper (2.5 hourn per bectare)abgting lShO   215 per bectre.
15   -Irludee:
- Oulpha t. of Anoia - 351 kg at aba 1,150 per ten oaeting the. 404 per heotare.
- Appl icstia (2  andaya at Rohs 9.20) and tran-portatio   onstLng Klhs 20 per hbetare.
16/  Iucld:cnne tttr   bhich rat 3t of tan  per  nday at Klob  10.5, ctting Klhs 3.5 per te.n
- Cons transportation which otilie.s  65/90 HP trntr ad On tapscity trailer   ingle sat  (3.7t Per hour  at Robe 78 Per hour) testin  lobe 21 per ton.
- Cas lender whioh  tilit .. Fir B_c  loader A-test drie hsdretnty   Ith frot pin e sr (23t Per hor an Rb  89 per hour ) ..etlng lohh        3 per to.
-Rapport eqoipftet tasting Robe 3 Per- tn..
Jone 2O. 1970



AMUE 11
-134-
SUGAR RRABIL!1ff(  PRO JECT
Project Ccrts
Agriul1tural Rainrt VAkriable Costs
M-uborori -- OUuWirrer
Forign
Unit Coat                                                                                                            zecbafle
(Sbs.)       Year          Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         ear 5         Year 6         Total              X
A. PLANT CROP
Improved Husbandry Land (ha)                                        1,140          1,140         1,140          1,140
Per Hectare
Land Preparation       j/                231                          263            263           263            263                       1,052              60
Planting Operations    2/                 97                          111            111           i                l                         444              27
Field Maintenance      3/                290                          331            331           331            331                       1,324              10
Fertilizers            L                 265                          302            302           302            302                       1,208              78
Subtotal                                           1,007         1,007          1,007         1,007                       4, 2e        
Reclaimed Fallow Land  (ha)                                           180            180            160           160
Land Preparation       5/              1,098                          198            198            198           198                         792              6o
Planting Operations                       6 '                          83             83             83            83                         332              27
Field Maintenance      3/                                             149            149           149            149                         596              10
Fertilizers            2                 756                          136            136           136            136                         544              78
Subtotal                                                           566            566           566                        2,524              40
Newly Developed Land   (ha)                                           940            940            940           940
Land Preparation       9/                935                          879            879           879            879                       3,516              60
Planting Operations   A"                 463                          435            435            435           435                       1,740 o            27
Field Maintenance       7/               828                          778            778            778           778                       3,112              10
Fertilizers            3/                756                          71             711           71             711                       2844               78
Subtotal                                          2,oO3          2,oO3          2,203         2,803                      11,2i2              46
B. RATOON CROP              (ha)                                                                      2,260         3,955
Field Maintenance     2                1,043                                                      2,357         4,125                       6,482              28
Fertilizers           2                  348                                                        786         1,376                       2.162              8o
Subtotal                                                                        3,143         s,501                       8,644              41
C. HARVESTING         (cane '000t)                                                                      112           183
Per floe
Manual Cuttings       jg                   4.5                                                     504            824                       1,328              --
D. CANE TRANSPORT   (cane 'OOt)                                                                        112           183
Transportation        L2/                 27                                                     3,024          4,941                       7,965              6o
Subtotal A, B, C D                                4,376          4,376         11,047        15,642                       35,441              46
Phyoical Contingencic    4  _C_  438                                        438          1.05          1.564                          5                46
9ubtotal                                    4,214          4,014        12,152         17,206
Price Contingencies 13t                                       578            963         3.403         6.366                       11,310              46
-       TOTAL                             5,392          5,777         15,555        23,572                      50,296              46
2I/ Includes 21% of:
- Hipping which utilizes 160/180 HP crawler tractor with ripper (4.2 hours per hectare) coating XShs 399 per hectare for 31% of total area and 120/160 HP crawler
tractor with ripper (4.6 hours per hectare) costing K8hs 396 per hectare for 69% of total area.
- Ploughing which utilizes 160/180 HP crawler tractor with heavy Rare plough (2.8 hours per hectare) costing KShs 266 per hectare for 31% of total area and
90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with disc plough (2.8 hours per hectare) costing KShs 241 per hectare for 69% of total area.
- Harrowing ,hich utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with Rrae harrow (2.1 hours per hectare) costing KSbs. 181 per hectare.
-Uproctg cane stubh which utilizes 120/160 HP crawler tractor with RHoe plough (1 .9 hours per hectare) costing XShs 163 per hectare.
i/ Includes 21% of: .
- Chezmial treatment at KSha 145 per heotare.
Seed transport at KISs 88 per hectare.
- Manual planting at KShs 184 per hectare.
- Gapping at Kshs 46 per hectare.
Includes 35% of sin manual weedings (15 nandays per weeding at Kghs 9.20) costing KShs 828 per hectere.
Includes 35% of:
- Application (2 mandays two times at RMbs 9.20) costing RShs 37.
- Fertilizer transportation at KShs one per hectare.
- Sulphate of Ammonia - 285 kg at KSRs 1,150 per ton costing KShs 328 per hectars.
- Triple SuPerrphosphate - 250 kg at  bShs 1,560 per ton costing XShs 390 per ha.
V   Includes 1006 of the operations described in note 1.
Includes 10t% of the operations described in note 2.
V  Includes 10(C of the operations described in note 3.
Includes 100% of the operations described in  onte 4.
2/ Includes 100  of the operations described in note I excluding uprooting of cane stubs
I Includes 10(% of the operations described in note 3plus subsoiling which utilizes 90/i20 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ripper (2.5 hrs/ha) costing KShs. 215 per hectare.
/   Includes:
- Sulphate of Amsonia 285 kg (at R3hs 1,150 per ton) costing KRhb  575 per' hectare.
- Application (2 mandays at RSbs 9.20) and transportation costing Kgos 20 per hectare.
(3/  Includes:
- Cane cutters whc  coot 2.6t cane per manday (75% burn and 25% green cane) at KRhs 10.5 per msanday, costing RBSs 4 per ton,
- Trash liningassulning 44t cane production per hectare (10 manday per hectare at 9.20) fur 25% of area ocsting Robs 0.50 per ton.
l2 Includes:
- Cane transportaticn wbich utilizes 65/90 HP tractored 8t capacity trailer, single axle (3.7t per hour at Kgos 78 per hour) costing RShs 21 per ton.
- Cane loader which utilizes Flex Bcom loader (23t per hour at XShs 69 per hour) costing RShs 3 per ton.
- Support equiPment costing RShs 3 per ton.
14/  See Appendix 1.
June 20, 1978



AM 11l
Table 1
- 135 -
A
SUlGAR RERIETATION PROJECT
Prolect fettn
AgeioaIlt-al Recurrent Variable Coot
Feni-i - llueleue Rt-Pe
Unit Coat                                                                                                     Earhoanye
(lEi. )        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        leAr 6       TOTAL           :
A. NURSERIES (ha)                 Per Hectare           250           250          250           350           350
Land Preperatioa      1/         1,090             272           272           272           382          382                     1,580           6o
plantig, Year I      2          1,485  2/          371          __            __           _             _                         _  
PReatlog Opeoetio-s  2/             421             _-            10           105           147           147                       875          21
Field Miinteaoaoe    7              770             192          192           192           270          270                     1,116           10
ort11itnera           5/          0831             208           208           208           291          291                     1,206           77
Marreeting            g/           652              1 16          163          163           228          228                       945           --
Subtotal                             1,206           9_0 940                  1,310         1,310                    5.722           38
B. PLANT CROP
IYproved Husbandry Lend (ha)                                     866           866           866        1,408
Land Preparation      7             240                          2o8           203           208          338                        962          6o
Planting Oper-tione  2              102                            06           88            88           144                       4o3          27
Field Mainte-anoe    2              270                          234           234           2334          330                    1,032           10
Fertiliner,           /O            291                          252           252           252          410                     1i166           78
Subtotal                                             782          762           7E2        1,272                      3,618          47
Newlv  evcelo2ed Land (ha)                                       564           563           163           352
Land Preporetion       /            027                          522           522           151          326                     1,521           6o
Planting Oporetionn  12/            463                         201            261            75          163                        76o          27
Fiold UMintenAnCe   7               770                          434           434           125          271                      1,264          10
Fortiliror 5.                      831                           468           468           135          291                      1.6            78
Subtotal                                          1605          1,685             6         1,05                      4,90           47
Irrigated Land (ha)                                                            370           400
Loud Orep- rationa    /           1,090                                        403           436                                     839          60
Plauttng Oporation9 2/              463                                        171           185                                     376          27
Field Maitaemnce   2/               770                                        285           308                                     593           10
Fertili-err          /            1,003                                        371           401                                     772          70
Subtotal                                                        1,230         1,330                                   2,560           1
C. RATOON CROP (hn)                                                              1,430         3,229        3,206
Field oaintean-o   /                985                                      1,409         3,181        3,186                     7,770           28
Fertdlieor .         /              134                                        621         1 401         0 ho                      R423           80
Subtotal                                                        2,030         4,582         4,581                    11,193           44
L. HARVSSTING (rare  O2Ot)                                                         22            56           100
For Ton
M-anul Cuttnngs    26/                9.5                                      209           532          950                      1,691          --
C.  CANE TRANSPORT (cae '0702)                                                      22            56           100
Tr-enporatlion        /             27                                         594         1,512        2.7(0                      1,006          60
lOltotal A, 5, C, D, E                      1, 206        3,407        7,470        10,542        iI,873                    34,498           44
Pr.vzicol tootingen.ciest0l%                      121          341           747         1I S4        1.187                     1.450           44
Subtotal                                    1,327         3,748        8,217        11,596        13,060                    37,940           u
Frice rotlagoncOro                                53           450         1.643         3,247         4.832                    10.225          44
TOTAL                                1,380        4,198         9,860        14,043        17,82                     40,173           44
J ,/Oncioden
- Ripping which utilIze,  20/160 OP crawler tractor 0ith riPpe  (4.6 h-urs per heotare)
-ostin  Oso 3Q4 per he-t-re fr- tic tobtl area.
-  lon,hing ohich utilizeo 90/120 LIP 4-whoel drice tr-toor withd4c plough (2.8 ho.r,
per ,ectare) roo.ing rSho 241 par hectare For tho total areea
-       iurrowlng w.c   wtilites 90/120  FP 4-oh-ol drico tractor  nitr Eom  harrow (2.1 hourz
por hectare) coating 1,h,. 181 per hectaer;
- Firronkog ouch octilloo  60/90  FP 4-wheol 1ine tractor with ridging bodies  1.6 hours
per hoctaro) costing KSho. 109 per hoctare;
- oproo-tg c-n  stbio allot otlhles 120/160 HP crawlor tractor with hone plough (1.9 ho-re
per hitcAre)  uoting KSh6  163 per hortbar.
2/ inclulde,:
- seed transport at KNOc. 08 per hectare;
- wanoel planting (20 -endaye per beot-ro at Khs., 9.20 per dAy) uKSh. 104 per heCtoro;
- gapping (5 mAnOada poe heotare oif KE.. 9.20 per day) K3hz. 46 per heotaro.
3/ Ia'lo,d.s only for Year 1:
- 7t of sood cane per hectcsr (p-bchesed at KShl. 152 -nd oth-r inpnt deorribod in note 2
-cting KShl. 1464);
- het-atrcoleut Of sood ran. at K3ho. 103 por hictare
2/ incluldes
_ wo hillings ohich   11tili   60/90 HP 4-wh-l dri-e tractor oith epring tinos ead ridging bldieo
(3.1 Iouro per hrntaco)  -oatig YShs. 218 pnr he-tare;
- four conual weodince (15 onday. per weeding at KUh., 9.20) costing KSh-. 557  per hict-re
- upplicotiOn (2 nandAyn two tints at KShl. 9.20) costing KMse. 37
-  ertili.or trn-cportation at KSh,. 1 per hootar-
- Solphato of A=onia - 350 kg (at KSha. 115O per tun) rooting lSts. 403
- Triplo luperphoophate - 250) kg (at KSha. 1560 per ton) costing KSh,. 390
- cane cttersa- eoouuu 80 t of cn  prodootihn per hectar  (1.5 tnn per  -nday at
KCho. 17.50) rooting KShe. 560
_ trash lining for area (10  andapa par hectare at KChl. 9.20) coeting K6h2. 9
7   Incudeo 12% of the operations de-cribed in note 1.
2 T-ncldon 22% of
- obemclal treut-nt at K6ha. 145 per hectare
- oeed trensport o KMe. 88 per heot-cre
_ _unnal plarting at KShs. 184 per heotare
- gapping at K10s. 46 par heotnee
9/ I-Clndoo 379 of the oporatioas deo-rited in note 4.
I/ Includeo 317 of the fertilieor- desoribed in note 5.
1-/ Taluden the operations describod in none 1 i-uludihg cpr-otig oif enotbt.
T2/   Incldes 1007  of tho operations d-eceibed in note 8.
13/ TIociudeas
- OulPhato of Ammonia - 500 kg (at 1Ehs. 1150 per ton) rooting KSha. 575 per heot-ro.
- triple Fuperphoophute - 250 kg (at KShC. 1560 per ton) oeatiag KShh. 390 per hcotare,
- Applic-tioe =d trnsportation cooting  Miha. 38 pIr hectYre
v4/ Inoludes the op-rtib-ne de:rribed in note 4 plus -wb-oiliag which utilio-o 90/120 HP
4-_heel drive nenotor with ripp-r (0.5 hu-  per heotare)  -oating KShs. 215 per hotaro.
15/ Inc ludes:
- Slphlte of Anunin - 360 kg (at KShl . 1150 per tnn) cueting KGhn. 414.
- Applionti.on  (2 Anadnya at Kehe. 9.20) ad tran-pnetatio .onontig KCm. 270 per
heetareo.
- Are  ,uttu - ruttig 1.5 ton rare per  -anday (at Klhi. 10.50 per =n day)
rooing KSI,.. 7 Pr ion of can.
trath linIng assuming an a-orago 38 ton c=e production por hn/yenr (10 -andays
per he_ta.r at KlShe. 9,20) roettig Kis. 2.50 per ton
Care orenSPortath n uhich utilia.. 65/90 OP tra-tor and A ton oapacity trailer,
ngile ante (3.7 tnn per boom at KShl. 78 per hoar) c-eting KShs. 71 per ton.
_ Cnne loader which otili.on  Fle. Bon lader 4_-hel Orive hydrnatatic vith fruat
piher (23 ton per hu- at M.Ul. 69 per hour) casting YEhn. 3 per ton.
_ F:cpcc4c equipmeat ro,ting lShe. 3 per ton.
Jlao  20, 1978






ANNEX 11
-136-                                                                 Table 20
6,.A;e  k!WwL-niSATW)1  !EGJWT
.3uAn  flAbjiAtO5 Costs 2
Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs
Ramisi      utrr
(KShas000
ForeignL
Unit Cost                                                                                                        ichanse
(Ila..)         Year 1        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        Year 6         Total           X
A. PLAINT CROP
Improved Husbandry Land (ha)    X  a                             260          270           270           163
Land Preparation     i/          240                              62           65            65            39                         231            60
Planting Operations  2/          102                              27           28            28            17                         100            27
Field Maintenance    3/          295                              77           80            so            48                         285            10
Fertilizers          i/          291                                           79            79            47                         281            78
Subtotal                                         242          252           252           151                         o97            46
Newly Develoaed Land (ha)                                        490          490           490           800
Land Preparation      J          927                             454          454           454           742                       2,104            60
Planting Operations  2'          463                             227          227           227           370                       1,051            27
Field Maintenance    7           843                             413          413           413           674                       1,913            10
Fertilizers           8J         831                                          407           407           665                       1,886            78
Subtotal                                       1,501        1,501         1,501         2,451                       6,954            46
B. RATOON CROP (ha)                                                               750         1,510         1,520
Field Maintenance    2'        1,058                                          794         1,598         1,608                       4,000            28
Fertilizers                     1423                                          317           639           643                       1,599            8o
Subtotal                                                    1,131         2,237         2,251                       5,599            43
c. HARVESTING (cane mOOOt)         Per Ton                                         12            29            47
Manual Cuttings     Lj/             9.6                                       115           278           451                         844            -_
D. CANE TRANSPORT (cane 'OOOt)                                                     12            29            47
Transportation       j/           27                                          324           783         1,269                       2,376            60
Subtotal A, B, C, D                                                                               6,573                       16,670            45
Physical Contingencies, 10                                  1,743         3,303         5,051          657                        166              45
Subtotal                                                 19t7          a               e218,33                                                   5
1,917  3.-. 5A                    7,230                        ,3
Price Contingencies 1/                                         230          7      ; 155             2.673                - 2- 524                .45
TOTAL                                  2,1147        4,360         7,13          9,905                      23,524            45
7/ Includes 22% of:
- Ripping which utilizes 120/160 HP crawler tractor with ripper 0&.6 hours per hectare)
costing KShs 396 per hectare for the total area.
- Ploughing which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor withdisc plough (2.8 hours
per hectare) costing KSsh 241 per hectare for the total area.
- 1arrowing which utilizes 90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with Rome harrow
(2.1 hours per hectare} costing KShs. 181 per heotare.
- Furrowing which utilizes 60/90 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with ridging bodies
71.6 hours per hectare) costing KShs 109 per hectare.
-Uprooting cane stubs which utilizes 120/160 HP crawler tractor with Rome plough (1.9
hours per hectare) costing KShs 163 per hectare.
2   Includes 33% of:
- Chemical treatment at KShs 145 per hectare.
- Seed transport at KShs 88 per hectare
- Manual plantings at KShs 184 per hectare.
- Gapping at KShs 46 per hectare.
3/  Includes 35% of:
- Six manual weedings (15 mandays per weeding at KShs 9.20) costing KShs 843 per hectare.
2/ Includes 35% of:
- Applications (2 mandays two times at KShs 9.20) costing KShs 37 per hectare.
- Fertilizer transportation at KShs 1 per hectare.
- Sulphate of Asmonia - 350 kg (at KShs 1150 per ton) costing KShs 403 per hectare.
- Triple Superphosphate - 250 kg ( at KShs 1560 per ton) costing KShs 390 per hectare.
5/ Includes 100% of the operations described in note 1 including uprooting of cane stubs.
2/ Includes 100% of the operations described in note 2.
7/ Includes 100% of the operations described in note 3.
Includes 100% of the operations and inputs described in note 4.
J   Includes 100% of the operations described in note 3 plus subsoiling which utilises
90/120 HP 4-wheel drive tractor with riwper (2.5 hours per hectare) costing KShs
215 per hectare.
Lo/  Includes:
- Sulphate ,f Amnonia 350 kg (at KShs 1,150 per ton) costing KShs 403 per hectare.
- Applications (2 mandays at 9.20) and transportation costing KShs 20 per hectare.
l/  Includes:
- Cane cutters cutting 1.5 t cane per manday (at KShs. 10.50 per manday)
costing KShs 7 per ton.
- Trash lining assuming an average of 35 ton cane production per ha/year
(10 msndays per ha at KShs 9.20) costing KShs 2.60 per ton.
IL/  Includes:
- Cane transpurtation which utilizes 65/90 HP tractor and 8 ton capacity trailer,
single axle (3.7 ton per hour at EShs 78 per hour) costing KSha 21 per ton.
- Cane loader which utilizes Flex Boom loader 4-wheel drive, hydrostatic with
front piler (23 t per hour at KShs 69 per hour) costing KShs 3 per ton.
- Support equipment costing KShs 3 per ton.
73/  See Appendix 1.
June 20, 1978



-137 -                                                                    AM=  i
Table 21
KENYA
SUGAR REQA&IL=TATION PROJECT
Pro1ect Costs
Miwni Sugar ,  tory - Capital Coats
ftehauge
Yeor I         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6        TOTAL              X
CANE RECEIVING AND STORAGE
Extend Mirrless Gantry                                                  36            84                                                       120              71
Extend Skoda Gantry                                                   225            525                                                       750              83
Install Feeder Table                                                   126           294                                                       420              50
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                       40             30              30                        100               *
Subtotal                             387            943             30             30                      1,390              81
CANE NANDLING AND PREPARATION
Modify Gruendler Shredder                                               70            155                                                       225             89
Rehabilitate Exiating Equipment                                                       165            160            160                        485              82
Subtotal                              70            320            160            160                        710              83
MILLING STATION
Rehabilitate Equipment                                                                500           400            400                       1,300              77
JUICE TREATMENT AND EVAPORATION
Install Juice Scale, 3t Capacity                                        60            135                                                      195              87
Install Juice Heater, 150 m2 Heating
Surface                                                               90           205                                                       295              85
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                      400            300            300                       1.000              80
Subtotal                             150            740           300             300                      1,490              82
SUGAR BOILING AND CRYSTALLIZATION
Install Two Crystallizers 34 m3 Capacity,
Water Cooled                                                                        375           875                                      1,250              80
Install Cooling Water Coils For Existing
Crystalizer                                                         210            670            600            420                       1,900              74
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                       100           150            150                         400              75
Subtotal                             210         1,145          1,625            570                       3,550              76
CENTRIFUGAL STATION
Relocate One Centrifugal For B Cane                                                                  80                                         g0              50
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                       140            140           130                         410              80
Subtotal                                            140           220             130                        490              76
SUGAR PACKING AND STORAGE
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                        75            110             60                        245              22
STEAM AND POWER GENERATION
Install Bteam Boiler, 25t/hour, 13,4 k /ca2                         2,490          2,905          2,905                                      8,300              76
Install PRV Station 13.4 to 11.2 kg/cm                                                132           308                                        440              91
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                       700           700            800                       2,200              77
Subtotal                          2,490          3,737          3,913            800                      10,940              77
ANCILLARY SERVICES AND FACILITIES
Extend Spray Pond                                                       50             90             30                                       170              47
Relocate and Rehabilitate Equipment                                                   800           800            800                       2,400              67
Install Bagasse Storage Facilities                                                   480          1,120                                      1,600              75
Laboratory Equipment                                                   225                                                                     225              89
Subtotal                             275          1,370         1,950            800                       4,395              70
CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR TECNNICAL APPROVAL OF
FACTORY EXPANSION PROGRAMS                                 300                                                                                    300              81
DUTIES AND TAKES                       1/                                                1.680          1,640            610                      3.930               --
Subtotal              300          3,582        10,650         10,348          3,860                      28,740              66
Physical Contingencies            2/                     45           420          1.246          1.212            452                       3.375              66
Subtotal              345         4,002         11,896         11,560          4,312                      32,115              66
Price Contingencies              3/                      15           480          2,380          3.237          1,595                       7,707              66
TOTAL                          360          4,482         14,276         14,797          5,907                     39,822              66
1/  Includes 10% of import duties and 10% of sales tax (total -21  over input costs) of foreign purchases.
2/  Calculated 10% on foreign coats and 15% on local costs.
3/ See Appendix 1
June 20, 1978



- 137 a -
ANREX 11
KENYA                                                                Tabl-e 02
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proiect Coats
Muhornoi Sugar Factory - Capital Costs *
(KRha. '000)
Foreign
Year I         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6       TOTAL
CANE RECEIVING AND STORAGE
Reinforce and Extend taisting
Gantry and Install tro 10t Capacity
Traveling Bridge  Crones                                              420            980                                                     1,400             71
Install New Gantry and lOt Capacity
Traveling Bridge Crane at Second
Feeder Table                                                          102            238                                                       340             73
Modify Existing Fender Tables to
Cane Washing Tables                                                  405           1,350           945                                       2,700             67
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                         70            70             60                          200              75
Subtotal                             927          2,638         1,915              60                        4,640             69
CANE HANDLING AND PREPARATION
Install heavy Duty Shredder                                             510            340           850                                       1,700              76
Install Elevating Conveyor                                              130             90           210                                         430              70
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                         90            80             80                           250             68
Subtotal                             640            520         1,140              80                        2,380             74
JUICE TREATMENT AND EVAPORATION
Tnstallation of New Clarifier                                           360            24o           6oc                                        1,200             67
Rehabilitate 26 ft Rapidorr Clarifier                                   105            245                                                        350             71
Install Juice Sulphitation Equipment                                    285            190           475                                         950              7
Replace Evaporator Vapor Lines And
Condenior                                                              53            175           122                                         350             71
Rehabilitate Eoitting Equipment                                                         90            80             B0                           250             Bo
Subtotal                             803            94o         1,277              8O                        3,100             71
ANCILLARY SERVICES AND FACILITIES
Install Additional River Water reatment
Facilities                                                                           210           140            350                          700              50
Install Additional Lgoon F0or Treatment Of
Factory Effluents                                                     120            280                                                       400              --
Factory Workshop Equipmaent                                             750                                                                       750             87
EItend Bagasse Storage Facilities                                                      300           200            500                         1,000             75
Laboratory  Facilities and Equipment                                    550                                                                       5.50            91
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                        200           200            200                           600             83
Subtotal                           1,420            990            540          1,050                        4,000             69
CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR TECdNICAL APPROVAL OF
FACTORY EXPANSIONS PROGEAMS                              300                                                                                      300             Sl
DUTIES AND TAXES                        1/                                                  980            680            255                        1,915
Subtotal              300          3,750          6,o60         4,650           1,525                       16,335             62
Physical Contingencies            21/                     45           451            723            554            152                        1 955             62
Subtotal              345          4,241          6,791         5506            1,707                       lo2990             62
Price Contingencies               3/                      15            509          1,359         1,458            632                        3,973             82
TOTAL                             360          4,750          0,100         6,664           2,339                       220263              62
I/  Includes 1l% of import duties and 10% of sales tax
(total- 21% over input oobta) of feigt Purchases.
2/ Calculated 10% on foreign costs and 15% on local costs.
3/ Iea Appandia 1.
At negotiations, tifhoroni informed the Government end the Bank delegation
that it had incu d additionsl rosts for factory expansion of appremixatrly
osh. 14 million, The additional equipment re.uired was: (i) one 20 ton
boiler; (ii) one l.1 Segowatt turbo generator; (iii) rehabilitation of cane off-
loading system. Company cash flow provided arproximately Koh. 9.5 nillion
and huhoroni requested Government to finance the balance of approximately
Ish 4.5 million (us$500 thousand) with funds borrowed from the Bank loan,  To
ths sntcet that fonds allo-caed to other c-tegories were underutilized, it was
agreed that the above expenditures wonId be eligible for disbursemxnt .nder
Schedule 1, Category (2) (b) of the Loan Agreement.
October 17, 1978






- 13F -
KENYA
SUGAR REHbWILITATION PROJECT
Project CO-ts
Rtaisd Sugar Factorv - Capital Cooet
. (?L9hs '000)                                                               Foreign
Exchange
Year I         Year 2          ar r 3        Year 4          Year 5          Year 6         TOTAL           2
CANE RECEIV.i(. AND STORAGE
Inrat11 Gantry With Too lOt Capacity
Tr-eling aridge  Creene                                                 990          2,310                                                                       76
Install seeder Table                                                      240             560                                                        800            75
RehabiliLtat  Tinting bqipeet                           -                                 150            150                                          300           67
Subtotal                            1,230           3,020            150                                       4,400            75
CANE HANDLING AND FREPARATIOF
Inntall Two Knife Se.                                                     300             700                                                      ],000            80
Rehnbilitote Tone Carrier                                                 120             280                                                        400            50
Rehabilitate Exinting Equip tenC                                                          150           150                                          300            67
Subtotal                              420           1,130            150                                       1,700            71
MILLING STATION
R-move No. 5 Mill                                                                                         90                                          90            --
Rehabilitate Mill Rollero                                                                 400           400             400                        1,200            67
Install Two 600 HP 3team Turbine
and  earing                                                                            870          2,030                                        2,900           86
Install Mill Lebrication lyste.a                                                           36            84                                          120           67
Rebhbilitate EPinting Equipment                                                           350           350             350             350        1.400            64
Subtotal                                            1,656         2,954             750             350        5,710            75
JUICE TREATMENT AND EVAPORATION
Enstall Aotomatic Voice Scale 3t Capacity                                  60             140                                                        200           85
.nstall Canti-.o.s J'sice Sulphitarion Equipment                                                        165             385                          550           73
Inotall Syr-p Sulphitation Equipment                                                                     99             231                          330           76
Install lew Juice Heater, 84 =2 boating Surface                                            75           175                                          250           80
Install New Clarifier                                                     360             240           600                                        1,200            67
Install Rotary Vacsue Filter, 23 a2
Filtering Area                                                          300             200           500                                        1,000            75
Rehabilitate Existing REt-ry 'atonm Filter                                102              68           170                                          340            74
Install Q.druple Effect Evaporator Set
2,200 m  Total Heatitg Surface                                                       1,470          1,715           1,715                        4,900           67
Rehabilitate EPisting Eqaipment and Strocture-                                            700           700             700             700        2,800            71
Subtotal                               822          2,893         4,124           3,031             700       11,570            70
SUGAR bOILING AND CRYSTALLIZATION
on-tall Thie  VMacone Pans, 25 m3 Capacity                                                600         2,000           1,400                        4,000            77
Install si Water Cooled Crystallizern, 12.7 a3
Cspacity                                                                                720           480           1,200                        2,400            83
Coovert Sir. Eoiting Cryntallioeru From Air-
Cooled to W.ater-Cooled                                                                 120           400             400             280        1,200           '7
Rehabilitate Eoistin.  Equipment and Stru-ttre                                            625           625             625             625        2,500            68
Subtotal                                            2,065          3,505          3,625             905       10,100            75
CENTRIFUGAL STATION
Install 'Two Automatic batch Centrifugal
1,065 om a 610 su                                                                                     510             340            850        1,700            76
I-stal Two Continuous Centrifugalo, 6t
Masnecuite Per Sour                                                                                   330             220             550        1,100           77
Rehabilitate SExiting Equipment                                                           125           125             125             125          500           80
Subtotal                                              125           965             685           1,525        3,300
STEAM AND POWER GENERATION
Install Sailer, 40t/hoor, 21 kg/ne2                                     4,950           5,775         5,775                                       16,500           76
Install "'urbogener.tor, 1,000 kw                                         630             420         1,050                                       2,100            81
Rehabilitate Duel len.rstern                                                                                            600                          600           67
Rehabilitate Existing Equipment                                                           625           625             625            625         2.500           68
Sobtotal                            5,580           6,820         7,450           1,225             625       21,700            75
ANCILLARY SERVICES AND FACILITIES
Coovert Two Vacuo  Punps To Eloctric Drive                                                 36           120              84                          240           83
Install Two 15,000 Liters/min Soden.er
Wster Peeps                                                                                           180            420                           600           75
Install -ag-ast Ctorage und Conveying
Facilities                                                                              510         1,090                                       1,700            76
Insta?l Peeps and 3,700 m of 100 mm Pipe
Par Factory Water Supply                                                165            385                                                        550            82
RHhabilitate Electricol and Stoan
Distribotion Systom                                                                    250            250            250             250        1,000            80
Extend FPctory Workshop and New Equip-ent                                 570          1,330                                                      1,900            68
Three 6t Deep Trucis For Filter Cake                                                      660                                                       660            60
Ono Enl.osee Tnk-er, 25t Capacity
Mounted In Pinck 'roctor                                                                                             590                          590            60
Laboratory Facilities and Squip-ent                                       300             700                                                     1 000
Subtotal                            1,035           3,871         1,740           1,344            250        8,040            76
CONSULTANCY SERVICES FOR TECHNICAL APPROVAL OF
FACTORY EXPANSION-PROCRaM                                     300                                                                                       300           90
DUTIES AhD TAXES                 1/                                                          3,090         3,793           1,922             785       10,390            --
Subtotal               300          9,087          25,470        24,831          12,582          5,140       77,410             64
Physical Casting.nc.ir-    2/                              45           1.072          3,003          2.928          1,484             606        9 138            64
Subtotal               345         10,159          28,473        27,759          14,066          5,746       86,548             64
Price Contingencies        3/                              15           1,219          5.695          7.773          5,204           2.701       22,607            64
TOTAL                  360         11,370          34,168        35,532         19,270           8,447      109,155            64
1/  1-cludeu 10% of import dntics and 10S  of soles tan (total 217 over inport costs) of froeign purchases
2/ Calculated lER on foroign rest -nd 15'7. on local costs.
3/ Ser Appredix 1.
Jone 20, 1978



ANEX 11
Table 24
- 139 -
IcENYA
SUGAB BRIABILITATION PBOJRXT
Project Co cts
Susg r actorl Reourrent Costs }/
Miwani
(EBbs. '000)
Foreign
Exchange
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Year 5       Year 6       Total      E
A.  Variable Costs J
Production Data Basis
Cane Production 3/             (9ooOt)                                                                             2        151
Extraction Rate                  (%)                                                                              10         10                      20
Sugar Production                 (t)                                                                           9,100    15,100                  24,200
Consmption         Unit Costs
Per Ton of Cane  Per Ton of Cane
Process Chemicals
Chemical Lime Hydrete                        2 kg                1.05                                             97        163                    260         80
Sulphr                                       1 kg                2.12                                            195        328                    523         80
Flocculant                                    3 gr               0.10                                              9         16                     8s,
Subtotal                                                3.27                                            301        507                     808         80
Fuel Oil and Lubricants
Firewood for Boilers                                             1.00                                             92        155                    247         60
Fuel Sil for Boilers                                             2.80                                            258        434                    692         60
Diesel Oil for Generators                                        0.90                                             83        140                    223          0
Oils and Lubricants                                              0.80                                             7.        124                    197         60
Subtotal                                                5.50                                            50        853                   1,359         60
Other Chemicals and Supplies
Water Treatment                                                  0.50                                             46         77                     123        80
Boiler Water Treatment                                           o.40                                             37         62                      99        80
Laboratory Chemicals end Supplies                                0.05                                              5          8                      13        80
Evaporator and Juice Heater Cleaning Chemicals                   0.40                                             37         62                      99        80
Subtotal                                                1.35                                            125        209                     334    - 50
Packing Materials
Jute Bags with Plastic Liners                                    7.70                                            708      1,194                   1,902        30
Sundry Materials                                                 1.0                                             92        1S5                    247         30
Subtotal                                                870                                             800      1,349                   2,149         30
Director Labor
Process Laborers                                                 1.80                                            165        279                     444        __
Subtotal Variable Costs                                20.62                                          1,897      3,197                   5,094         47
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                                                 190       320                     510         47
Subtotal                                                                                              2,087      3,517                   5,604         47
Price Contingencies../                                                                                      584     1,301                   1,885         47
Total Variable Costs                                                                                  2,671      4,818                   7,489         47
B. Non-Variable Costs
Plant Maintesance 5J
Materials                                                                                                        364        604                     968         70
Tools and Equipment                                                                                               91        151                     242         60
Sundry Materials                                                                                                  91        151                     242         30
Mill Rollers                                                                                                     182        302                     484         85
Maintenance Laborers                                                                                              68        114                     182         20
Subtotal                                                                                                79e6     1,322                   2,18         63
Factory Supervision
Salary Expenditures                                                                                              140        24o                     380         42
Miscellaneous Expenditures                                                                                       120        200                     320         42
Subtotal                                                                                                260        440                     700         42
Factory Training 6J                                                                          50         75          50         50                     22'        100
Subtotal Non-Variable Costs                                                       50          75      1,106      1,812                   3,043         6i
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                           5           8         117     1,81                       3W5        61
Subtotal                                                                          55          83      1,2 17     1,993                   3,344         GI
Price Contingencies 5/                                                                7          17         341       737                    1,102        61
Total  0on-Variable Costs                                                         62         100      1,558      2,730                    4,450        61
C.  Sunmary'
Baseline Costs A end B                                                                       50         75       3,003      5,009                   8,137         52
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                           5           B         301       501                      815         52
Subtotal                                                                          55         833      3,304      5,510                    8,952         52
Price Contingencies                                                                   7          17         925     2,038                    2.987         52
Total                                                                             62         100       4.229     7,548                   11.939         52
i/ This talle reflects only incremental production and costs.
| Excluding the cost of sugarcane,
F/ Por details see Annex   , Table
/ See Appendix 1.
To meet especially heavy workshop requirements, the Factories would be able to use the worksbop facilities of Kesya Railwys in Nairobi.
For details see Anr 10, Table 1.
June 20, 1978



AAMEX 11
- 140 -                                                               Table 25
KENYA
SUGAR REH&EILIT&TION PROJECT
Protect costs
Sugar Factorv eacurrent Costa I/
CD- lil
(98he. 000)
Foreign
Exchange
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6       Total          1
A.  VMAIABLE COSTS  2/
Production Data Basia
Cane Production  3/                    ('OOOt)                                                                                59           99
Ectration Rate                           (%)                                                                                   10           10
Sugar Production                         (t)                                                                               5,900        9,900
Conswtption        Unit Costs
Per Ten of Cane Per Ton of Cane
(MSea.)
Prucesa Chemiuala
Cheninal Lio  Hydrate                             2 kg               1.05                                                     62          104                      166          8o
Sulphur                                            1 kg              2.12                                                    125          210                      335          ao
Flucculant                                         3 gr              0. 10                                                      6          10                       16          80
Subtotal                                    3.27                                                     193          324                      517
Fuel Oil and Lubricants
Fir-eoud far Boilero                                                 1.00                                                     59           99                      158          6o
Fuel Oil for Boilers                                                 2.80                                                     165         277                      442          60
Diesel Oil for Geceratura                                           0.90                                                      53           89                      142          6o
Oilu and Lubricanta                                                  0.80                                                     47           80                      127          6o
Subtotal                                    5.50                                                     324          545                     8t19          bO
other Cheiuals and Supplien
Water Treatrnot                                                      0.50                                                     30           50                        Bo         80
Boiler Water Treatnect                                               0.40                                                      24          40                       64          80
Laboratory Che,nicals and Scpplies                                   0.05                                                       3           5                        8          Bo
Evaporator and Juice flater
Cleaning Chenicala                                                0.40                                                       23          40                       63          80
Subtotal                                    1.55                                                      80          135                      215          5079
PackinS natoriala
Sute Page With Plastic Liners                                        7.70                                                    454          762                    1,216          30
Sundry Materials                                                     1.00                                                     59           99                      158          30
Subtotal                                    8.70                                                     513          861                    1,374          30
Direct Labor
proceun Laborera                                                     1.80                                                    106          178                      284           --
Subtotal Variable Costs                    20.62                                                   1,216        2,043                    3,259          47
Physical CGntingennie. 10%                                                                                 122          204                      326          47
Subtotal                                                                                           1,338        2,247                    3,585          47
Price Contingenciea  5/                                                                                    375          831                    1,2o6          47
Total Variable Costs                                                                               1,713       3,078                     4,791          47
S.  NON-VARIABLE COSTS
Plant Maintenance 6/
'1aterials                                                                                                                    228         376                       604          70
Tools and Equipseet                                                                                                           57           94                       151          60
Sundry Materials                                                                                                              57           94                       151          30
Mill Rollere                                                                                                                  114          188                      302          85
Mainten-nce Laborent                                                                                                           43           70                      113          20
Subtotal                                                                                             499          822                    1,321          t4
Factory SuPervieion
Salary Expenditure-                                                                                                           90          150                       240          42
Hisicella-eoua Spenditures                                                                                                     80          130           -           10          42
Subtotal                                                                                             170          280                      450          42
Factory Trainein   7/                                                                                             25           Do          50                       125         100
Subtot-l Non-aVri-ble Costs                                                              25          719        1,152                    1,896           61
Physical Contingenciea, 1071                                                                     3          72          115                       161
Subtotal                                                                                 28          791        1,267                    2,086           61
Price Contingencina  5/                                                                          6         221          469                       696          61
Total Hen-Variable Costs                                                                 34        1,012        1,736                     2,782          c1
C.  SUMMARY
Baselnle Coats A and B                                                                                            25       1,935        3,195                     5,155          52
Fhysical Contingencies, 10%                                                                      3         lgb 41q                                 16          52
Subtotal                                                                                 28        2,129        3,51t                     5 671          52
Price Contingencies                                                                              6          sc6       l RoO                     1,902          52
TOTAL                                                                                    34        2,725        4,814                     7,573          52
1/ This table reflecta only incremental production and costs.
2/ Encluding the ce-t of sugar cane.
3/  For details aee Annex    Table
4/  Calculated at 3.3% of augar cane produ-tion.
5/  See Appendio 1.
6/  To meet especially heavy workahop requireneuts, the Factories would be able to use the workshop fanilities of Kenya Railw-ys in Nairobi.
7/ For details gee Annex 8, Table 1.
June 20, 1978



A l
SUGA ZmNAILT&XON OJIcT
ftoecet costs
SuBr Facto"t  to          cost 
loreigo
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year -4      Year 5      Year 6       Total        Z
A. VARIABLE COSTS 2/
Produccion Bate Basis
Cane Production . J                  ('DOOt)                                                                            141         232
Extraction Rate                         N)                                                                               10          10
Sugar Production                        (t)                                                                          14,100      23,200
Molas..e  Production  4                 (t)                                                                           4,653        7,656
Coossintion       Unit Costs
per Too of Cane Per Ton of Cane
(KSha.)
Process Chemicals
Chemical Lime Hydrate                            2 kg             1.05                                                  148          244                     392        80
Suiphur                                         1 kg              2.12                                                  299          492                    791         80
Floccul.nt                                      3 gr              0.10                                                   14           23                      37        80
Subtotal                                  3.27                                                   461         759 9                              8"
Fuel Oil and Lubricants
Fire-ood for Boilera                                              1.00                                                  141         232                      373        60
Fuel Oil for Boilers                                              2.80                                                  395         650                    10o45        60
Diesel Oil for Generators                                         0.90                                                  127         209                      336        60
Oils and Lubricants                                               0.80                                                  113         186                      299        60
subtotal                                  5.50                                                   776       1,277                   2,053        tO
Other Chemicals and Supplies
Water Treatment                                                   0.50                                                   71          116                     187        80
Boiler Water Trestment                                            0.40                                                   57           93                     150        80
Laboratory Chemicals and Supplies                                 0.05                                                    7           12                      19        80
Evaporator  nd Juice Heater
Cleaning Chemicals                                              0.40                                                   57          93                      150        80
Subtotal                                  1.35                                                   192         314                     5
Packina Materils
Jute Bags With Plastic Liners                                     7.70                                                1,086       1,786                    2,872        30
8undry Materials                                                  1.00                                                  141       178                                   30
8.70                                                1,227       2,016                    3,245        30
Direct Labor
Process Laborers                                                  1.80                                                  254         418                      672
Subttal Variable Costs                  20.62                                                 2,91i      l4786                     7,696        47
Dhysical Contingencies, 10%                                                                            291         47
Subtotal                                                                                       3,201       5,205                 - ,
Price Contingencies  5/                                                                                896       1.948                    2 844        47
Total Variable Costs                                                                        4,097        7,213                  U,310          47
B. NON-VARIABLE COSTS
Plant Maintenance 6/
Materials                                                                                                               564         940                    1,504        70
Tools and Equipment                                                                                                     141         235                      376        60
Sundry Materials                                                                                                        141         235                      376        30
Mill Rollers                                                                                                            282         470                      752        85
Maintenance Laborers                                                                                                    106         176                      282        20
Subtotal                                                                                      1,234        2,056                   3,790         63
Factory Superviaion
Salary Expenditures                                                                                                     220         300                      520        42
Miscellaneous Ependitures                                                                                               180         270                      450        42
Subtotal                                                                                        400          570                      970        42
Factor7 Training  7/                                                                                         25          50          50                      125       100
Subtotal Non-Variable Cost                                                           25       1,684       2,676                    4'385         60
Physical Contingencis, 10%                                                                  3         168         268                       4q9        60
Subtotal                                                                             28       1,852       2,944                    4,824         60
Price Contingencies  5/                                                                     6         519        1.089                   1. 614        60
Total Non-Variable Costs                                                           34       2,371       4,033                    6,438        60
C. SUMMARY
Baseline Costs A and B                                                                                      25        4,594       7,462                   12,081        51
Physical Contingencies  10%                                                                 3         459         746                     1.208        51
Subtotal                                                                             28       5,053       8,208                   13,28          51
Price Contingencies  71                                                                     6       1.415 i       037
TOTAL                                                                              34       6,468      11,245                   17,747         51
1/  This table reflects only incremental production and nosts
2/ E.cluding the cost of sugar cane.
3/ For details see Anne,       Table
4/  Calculated at 3.3% of sugar cane production.
5/ See Appendi. 1.
6/  To acet especially heavy workshop requirements, the Factories eould be able to use the .orkshop facilities of Kenya Railways in Nairobi.
7/ For details soe  Onex 8, Table 1.
June 20, 1978



ASN 11
_ 142                                                                    Table et
RENYA
SUGAR REBABITATION PROJBCT
ProlOct Costs
sugar Factory Recurrent Costs 1i
Itisi
(KISb- '000)
Foreign
Pxchange
year 1       year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5        Year 6       Total         2
A. VARIABLE COSTS  2/
Production Data Basis
Cane Production   3/                    ('Cp0t)                                                                                 86          1.79
Extraction Pate e                                                                                              4 8240       1 8.5    l        875          9
Sugar Production                          (t)                                                                   ,            ,
Molasses ProduCtion  4/                   (t)
Consumption       Unit Costa
Per Ton of Gene Per Ton of Gene
(KShs.)
Process Chemicals
Chemical Lime Hydrate                              2 kg               1.05                                         37           9          153                      282         80
Sulphur                                            1 kg              2.12                                          74           2           314                     570          80
lorlat                   Subtotal                  3 gr               0.10                                          3            9           1-5                      27         0o
Subtotal                         ~~~~~3.27                                    114          Ml5          4134 2-8
Fuel Oil and lubricants
Firewood for Boilers                                                  1.00                                         35           86          148                      269         6o
Fuel Oil for Boilers                                                 2 80                                          98          241          414                      753         6o
Diesel 011 fec Geseraters                                             0.90                                         32           77          133                      242         60
Oils and Lubricants                                                  0.80                                          28           69          119                      216         6o
Subtotal                                     5.50                                        193          579 ol4                              ,            60
Other Checicals asd SupplIes
Wetr  Treat.eet                                                       0.50                                         17           43           75                       135        80
Boiler Water Treatment                                               0.40                                          14           34           59                       107        80
Laboratory Chemicals asd Supplies                                    0.05                                           2            4            7                        13        So
Evaporator and Juice Heater
Cleaning Chemicals                                                 0.40                                          141 34                    59                       107        8o
Subtotal                                     1.35                                         47          115         2                          362        do
Packing Materials
Jute Sags With Plastic Liners                                         7.70                                        270          662        1,140                     2,072        30
Sundry Materials  -    Subtotal                                      8 70                                                    .8          148                        269        30
subtoLal              8.70  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~*05                                    746        1,28!5                    2,31          0
Dtreet Labor
Process Laborers                                                      1.80                                         63          155          266                       484       --
Subtotal  Variable Costs                    20.62                                        722'       1,772        3,05?                     5,546        47
Physical Contingencies, 1lt                                                                       72          177          305                      554         47
Subtotal                                                                                 794        1,949        3,357                     6,100        47
PrIce Costlegecnie   Vl                                                                          159          721-   ~ 1.42                                    47
Total Variable Costs                                                                    953        2,670r       4,599                     8,222        47
B   NON-VAR7ABLE COSTS                                                 Unit Cost
Per Ton of Sugar
Plant Mailtenante 5/                                              (Kshs.)
Materials                                                            40.00                                        287          547          749                     1,583       70
Tools and Equipment                                                  10.00                                         72          137          187                       396       60
Sundry Materials                                                    10.00                                          72          137         187                        396       30
Mill Rollers                                                         20.00                                        144          274          374                       792       85
Maintenance Laborers                                                  7.50                                         54          103          140                                 20
Subtotal                                    87.50                                        629        1,198        1,637                                 63
Fantory Supervison
Salary Expenditures                                                                                               120         210          280                       610        42
Miscellaneous Expenditures                                                                                         90          180          250                       520       42
Subtotal                                                                                 210          390         530                      1,130       42
Factory Trainsin  6/                                                                                  50          75           75           50                        230      100
Subtotal son-Variable Costs                                                  50          914       1,663        2,217                      4,844       60
Physical Contingencies, 107                                                         5           91          166          222                       484        60
Subtotal                                                                     55        1,005       1,829        2,439                     5,320        60
Price Contingencies  5/                                                             7          201          512          902                     1.622        60
Total Son-Variable Costs                                                   62        1,206       2,341        3,341                      6,950       60
C. SUMMARY
B-selise Costs A and B                                                                               5         1,636        3,4v        5,269                    10,390        53
Physical Contingencies, 107                                                         5      '                31  7      57                        110328      53
Subtotal                                                                     55        7I99         3  T            9
Price Contingencies                                                                 7       _360          1,233        2,144                     3,744        53
TOTAL                                                               62        2,159        5,111        7,940                    15,172       53
This table reflects only increnental production end costs.
2   Exeluding the cost of egarrne.
*/  For details see Annex   , Table
/ See Appendix 1.
To meet especially heav  workshop requirements, the Factories would be able to use the wrkshop facilities of Kenya Railways in Nairobi.
For details see Annes  , Table 1.
June 20, 1978






- 143-   ,bl. 28
XERY
SUGAR REHAEILBTATG7 PROJECT
Projsec t Cone.B
General Osaganlant isad Mmlntetre,tae p
0..- ..  0002
Year I       Year 2      year 3       Year 4       year 3       Year 6         Total            g
A. CAPITAL ODSTS
Offite FPrnticre tod Equipaaai                                                               150
Acaot_in  nshinoheo        p                                                                250                                                               150        50
S.bt.tal                                                           400                                                              400         69
teahuoxot
Office Fur-ioee  tnd UquiptsDt                                                              150                                                               150        50
Acconniog Mechior                                                                           250
Subtotal                                                           400                                                              AUG         60
Raaiasi
OffUer Purituore cod Uqaipmacot                                                             150                                                               [5         50
250                                                              250        50
Subtotal                                                           400                                                               SOS        69
Subtotal Capital Costa                                           1,200                                                            1,200         69
Physia  Gotoecc,000                                                        000                                                              100        69
Sobtothl                                                         1,320                                                             1,320        h9
Price Co-tiogeociac      2/                                                158                                                              13          b9
Total Capital Goats                                         1,470                                                            0,470         69
Yrcoly Olary
cod Btcefitt    Qoantity
(KgS. )          Ns.
B. BkCUBl3T COSTS
Satotira
Auditot/Oystn  of c 4athada Adrisor          90             1                              90           90           90           90                       360
SecretarY                                    25             1                              25           25           25           25                       100
Cost Accoo.t.oi  Divtaioi                   120             1                 60          120          120          120          120                        540
CGOt Atcaonting Clerks                       35             6                105          210          210          210          210                        945
Matile PIcooiag Dlvicio- Chief  3/    120                  1                             120          120          120          120                        48        70
S.crot-cy                                    25             1                              25           25           25           25                       100
Phyaicat Plcottog Soperois-r                 70             1                              70           70           70           70                        280
Pl_nning Clorka                              35             3                             1lO          005          105          105                        42t
Salary ddtsi.trtio  Adoi-or                  70             1                              70           70           70           70                        2O8
Clerk                                        35             1                              35           35           35           35                        14o
Bldgorios  Co-rdi-otor                       90             1                              90           90           90           060
Subtotcl                                               165         960          960          960          960                      4,005          6
ncrearotat other b-  Panenaes    4/                                             000         400          400          400          400                      1.700         50
Subtotal                                               265       1,360        1,360        1,360        1,360                      5,705         21
Cheolei
C4tvIe i.
sslaries
AdiltorlSyste=s of Methods Advisor           90             1                              90           90           90           90                        360
Sc_ctccy                                     25             1                              25           25           25           05                        10D
Coct Accocotiog Divioiot Chief              120             1                120          120          120          120          120                        600
lestacrcta    PcPlU..   nDivision Chief  3/    t20          1                             120          120          120          120                        oao         00
Socretocy                                    25             L                              25           25           25            51
Ph-sical Plnnigt SOp-rvi-or                  70             1                              70           70           70           70                        480
Pla=ning Cl-ker                              35             3                             lOS          105          105          105                       8oo
S-latry Adssinrattetn Adviser                70             1                              70           70           70           70                         o
Clerk2                                       35             1                              35           35           35           35                        140
Sbutotcl                                               120         660          660          660          660                      2,760         i2
IGoervantOl 0/                                                                   5          350          330          350          35R                      1,480         50
Mt-ao -eaaot F..s                                                               --          --           --           350          500                        850        100
subtotal                                              200        1,010        1,010        1,360        1,510                      5I,90         3b
ttchoren 6
Ocal rties
Anditorlsyste=s of Mathoda Advisor           90             1                              90           90           90           90                        360
Secretary                                    25             1                              25           25           25           25                        10
Coat A-coa.titg Diviafoi  Chief             120             1                 60          120          120          120          120                        540
Co2t Arcounting Clr-ks                       35             1                105          210          210          210          210                        945
Mhtirial  Plooni"g Division Chief  31    120                1                             120          120          120          120                        40)         70
S-erritay                                    25             1                              25           25           25           25                        10.
Physical Planniog Saperniso-                 70             1                              70           70           75           70                        28o
Pl5nitg ClGerka                              35             3                             00           105          105          105                       4So
Salary Adrsinistratioe Advisor               70             1                              70           70           70           70                        206
Clerks                                       35             1                              35           35           35           35                        14o
Nudgetins Coordi-ator                        90             1                              90           90           90          90                         36o
Subtotal                                              165          960          960          960          960                       6,005         0
Oocrraeot- l Other peoce   4/                                                  100          40           400          400          600                      1,700         '
Managenatt  Peru                                                                --          --           --         0.6oo        2.                          ,500 
sobtotal                                              265        1,360        1,360        2,960        4,260                     10o            00
Oclarirs
Aodithu/oystenS.   f Methods Advisor         90             1                              90           90           90           90                         360
S-ocotory                                    25             1                              25           25           25           25                         100
Cent Accountine Division Chief              120             1                 60          120          120          120          120                        540
cort A-c-outinS Clerk                        35             6                105          210          210          210          210                         945
Materital  Plannins Division C4ief  31    120               1                             120          120          120          120                         480        7D
secretacy                                    25             1                              25           25           25           25                         100
Phyai-oc  Planniog SOp-rvi2ta                70             1                              70           70           70           70                        480
Planoin6 ClGos                               35             3                             1505         05           105          105                        t2
Salary Adointitration Advisar                70             1                              70           70           70           70                         280
Glaks                                        35             1                              35           35           35           35                         14o
lodgetini  Ceardi-ator                       90             1                              90          90           90            90                         360
Snbtetal                                              165          960          960          960          960                       4,005
Iucre=ent-   Other  .cpat...   41                                              100          300          300          300          300                       1,300        50
Maoaoeno  Fees                                                                 42o         too           6n                 9       30  1                   3,199        10
subtotal                                              685        1,680        1,071        0,069        2,190                       8,t45         49
tubtotl Rcocrahit Ceote                            1,415        5,410        5,601        7,749        9,320                      29,495         44
Phbytoal  o_tntingoene, 10%                                  t142        541         560          7754         932 230.                                44
i n_btotl                                            ,557        5,951        6,161         ,524       10252                       320 
Price Cuntiroeneiva                                            78         950         1,602       3.039        5 126                      10,997        40
TDta} Occurrent C00t0                               1,35         6,303        7,563       11,763       05,370                      43,442         4
on-clii- Cotet  A 2   Bd                                                     1,415        6,6io       5,601        7,749        9,320                      30,697         45
Phythi-l Contingercni-, 10%                                   i42          661         560                       9 9,                     3P0            45
oubtotil                                            1,557        7,t?71       6,161                    10,252     '         '      3,7            45
iSe Crontin.evnite                                             73        1,110       1,602        3.239        5,126                      11,155         45
TotBI Guti                                          1,637        8.361        7,763       11,763       15,378                      44,920         45
3/  Incl  re Onur--mentl c-tt only.  Dote tot include hoflogaemt taan
3/  To iv ooonti rd Ouoeor,hooi2 y
T-cl,d-e trs -1, cutlnr -nd en-te-tain-t  vehiclo  Muoclo   -tvot, prOit,ng, etitio-ery and other tuppli-s, boohk  arnd peridic-le,
1coo    8 ot0oo  atO  7ootnrO, rerooltuart orot. recital or1 utltOrt oerr,cao rnd   elocl euuoaeoyettee
Jue20l, 0978






ANNEX 11
Table 29
KENYA
SUGAR REHABI 35ATIQ PROJECT
Project Costs
.    - Capitel Costs /
(KShs..'OOD1
Year 1            Yeae  2           Year 3             Year 4        KrAr 5Year 6                                   EXchaes
ICs.   Aapunt     Km.  Amosnt       K=.   SmoassO     Km.  Asiot            t              Kms.  Amount       Sotol         5
MIWANI
Al.  IMINSTRY OF WORKS' RESPOhSIBILITY
Tarmac S-rfacing                                               15      1,800                                                                               1,800         35
lTpgrading, 2 snd E Class                                       8        320       8       320       8        320      8        320      6        240      1,520         35
llpgrading. S Class                                                                5       200                                                               200         35
Bridges aod Crost.igs                                                              1       900                                                                00         3
Subtotal                                        2199            - 1,420                320               320               280       4,420        35
ECgi-eeritg Y                                          25                  2                b2        -            4             14                10        442         3
Subtotal Al                     250             2,212             1,482                334               334               253 5,862              35
B1.  S00GAR COMPANY'S RESPONSIBILITY
F-atory Entrsace                                                                   1     1,200                                                             1,200         35
Upgradig, Siallolder Area                                                         1       280                                                               280         35
New Construction, SmalTholdee Area                                                10     1,000      10      1,000     11      1,100                        3,100         35
Ne, Coaetructtio, Access Traeks                                                   22       264      220       26       2        26                           72          35
Subtotal                                                          2,744              1,264             1,364                         5,372         35
Enginecring RJ                                                           300               123                 56                58                           537        35
Mainteasce  Outipment 3/ 185                                           2,330               _,235                                                                         85
subtotal Bo                     005             2,650             2,b67              1,320             1,422                         9,144        53
Cl.  SUBTOTAL Al e B1                                       1,135             4,862              4,349             1,654             1,756               250      i4,oo6         47
Physicai Coatinge-cies, 10%                            113               486               435                165               i76                25       1.4oo        47
Subtotal                      1,248             5,348             4,784              1,019             1,932               275      i5,4o6        47
Price Continge-cie  Y                                   53               691             1,148               600                889               151       ,492         47
Total Miw-oi                  1,301             6,039             5,932              2,419             2,781               426      18,898        47
CHEMELTL
A2. MINTSTRY OF WORKS' RSSPONSTBILITY
Trmrac S-rfaciog                                                8        960                                                                                  96o        35
Irpgradnog  2 mod C Class                                      10        400      10       4oo      10        400     10        400      7        280       1,880        35
ipgradiag, S Clas,                                                                 4       160                                                                160        35
NSew Cooatc-ctico, Serge Ferm Ares                              7        700                                                                                  700        35
Subtotal                                        2,060               560                400               400               280       3,710         35
Eogi-eeriog 2J                                         200                95                25                 18                18                14         370        35
Subtotal A2                     200             2,155               5t5               481                418               294       4,070         35
B2.  SUGAR C5MPANY'S RESPONSIBILITY
Facetory Eatrence                                                                  0.5     6oo                                                                6uo        35
New Construction,  mallholdor Ar-S                                                 2       200       1,5      150      1.5      150                           500         35
New Coontuct-oo, Access Tracks                                                    16       190      16        192     17         2o4                          900         D
Subtotal                                                             990               342               354                         1,cOO         35
Engioeering j/                                                           100                42                 13                1469                                     5
Maiate-ance E0uip-ent 3/                               8&5             250                                                                                  3,235         05
Subtotal B2                     805             2 450             1,034                355               368                         5,002         67
c2. S      2BTOTAL AP2 +  2                                 1t,o5             4,605              1,619               773               786                294      9,162         53
Pbysical Coatiogoico,, 10'%                            103               46o              16                  877                79                29         316        53
Subtotal                      1,194             5,065             1,781                U0506                               323      10,900         53
Price Co-tioge-cie- 6/                                  50               6s5               427               280                380               178      1.70         50
Total Chemelil                1,244             5,720             2,208              1,130             1,245               501      12,048         52
WI4OROT
AS. MINISTRY OF WORKS' RESPONS1011LITY
Taroac Stcf-'iag                                                1        12                                                                                   120         35
rJpgradiag, D 2-d E 0lass                                      20        Ooo      20        000     20        800     20        8on      i4       56o       3,760         35
flpgrSdicg, S Class                                                                9       36o                                                                36o         35
New C2nstruction, Large Yarn Area                               9        900                                                                                  910         35
Beidge- and Croosingo                                           2      2,200             1,200                                                                            35
Subtotal                                        4,00              1,160                OoO               000               540       7,340        55
Elginueriag 2/                                         380               195                56                 3B                38                27         734         35
Subtotal A3                     380             4,215             1,216                830               838               587       8,074         35
B3.  30CAI. COMPANY'S RDSPONSIBILITY
Factory ontra-ce                                                                   1     1,200                                                              1,170         35
dew Cootroctisa, 2=alLholdec Area                                                16      1,6oo     16      1,6oo      16     i,60o                         4,80o         35
New Conotr iotion, Acceoc Tracks                                                  28       336      28        336     29        346                         1,020         35
Subtota1                                                          3,136              1,936             1,90                             2 50       35
Engineering  /                                                           350               157                 97                98                           702         35
Mointe-aoce Eguipment 3/                            1,130              31,30                                                                               812            05
Subtotal 03                   1,1         90                      3,293              2,033            1,046                         12,142         53
C3.  S00701TAL A3 u 03                                      1,570             7,795              4,509             2,871             2,R84                587     20,-16         46
Phyciral OCotlogeociec, 106                            157               779               45i                287               238                50       2,221         46
S-btotal                      1,727             6,574             4,900              3                 3,172               646    -12,1357         1
Price -oottogeico 4/                                    73             1,L22             1,190              1,042             1,396               355       5,178         46
?otal Muohoroni               1,800             9,69              6,1o5              4,2o0             4,s68              1,001     27,415         46
RA01127
A4. MINIS'TY OF OOtSRRS RESPONST0ILTTY
Yew Co.ctrlc, Large Ferm Aroas                                3]      3,100                                                                                3,10D         3
En3ineering  /                                        200                110                                                                                  010         35
Scibtotal A4                    200             3,210                                                                                5,410         35
B4.  S201A  COMPANY'S E0SPONSBIITY                                                       146D                                                                                     '
coc-adlg. Smallholder A ,rea                                                      12          o8
Sle OCasttroi-a, Sma11tolde- Area                                                 11     1,100      11      1,120c    11      1.100                         3,300         35
N-ew Co.structio, Aoa-S d TrAct                                                   24       o88      24        240     23        276                           852         35
Subtoatl                                                          1,060              1,380             1,376                         4,u32         35
Sooi-ueic,g 2/                                                           250                85                64                 64                           463         35,
Subtotal Oh                                     3:,8o             1,953              1,452             1,L40                         3,38          35
C4.  7BTOTAL A4 e B4                                          200             6,840              1,953             1,452             i,44o                        11,885         49
PbySioal Contingenciec, 10%                             20               684               1 6              145                144                          1 199         49
Subtotal                        2205            7,524             2,11 9157                            1,504                        mo,o74         49
Frius Co-tilgeacieo 6                                   11               973               56                 27                700                         2,727         51
Total RgRisi                    231             8,497             2,665              2,L24             2,284                        15,801 i i
SUMMARY, ALL vO~NES
tacottoc Costa                                       3,990            24,102            12,43o             6,750              6,066             1,131      55.269         48
Nhyoital Contingecaie-, 10%                           399             26412              1263                655               606               1136       .5 26         48
Subtotal                       ,30             0652              1,73               7,42                ,52124.                     6,70           8
Orics Contingeclieo                                   187              3.441             3,281             2,849              3,325               684      13,317         4d
Total, All Soao               4,576            29,953           l1,954               9,076            10,877             1,920      74,164         43
F/ or dotailo see A-o-a 10.
2/ As-umes to h. 106 of coa-t-ctton cooto.
3V A liot of ocafutcoacc Oeqip-ect is hob- in Aunce 10, Table 6.
Ocr 3 YoncroSoc 1; e5qip-eat co-tingeactie  have bern applieS to msinte.ance equipmeat costs,  and di,1l cocko -ootilcg-ei   to all tthor coot bucc.
Jone 20, 1978






SUGAR REBABILITATION PROJECT
Project Costs
Roads - M!intenamce C0sts /
(KlSb. '000)
Foreign
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4            Year 5           Year 6                   Pzchango
Km.  Amount    Km.  Amount    Km.  Amount    Km.  Amount    Km.  Amount    Km.  Amount                  Total         x
MIWANI
Factory Entrance (Tarmac)                                                              1       120      1        120                        240          48
D and E Class (Tarmac)                                               15       180     15       180     15        180                        540          48
Smallholder Areas                                                                     10       100     20        200                       -300          48
Access Tracks                                                                         22        10      44        20                         30          48
Bridges and Crossings                                                                           90                90                        180          48
Subtotal Miwani                                                 180              500              610                       1,290          48
CHEMELIL
Factory Entrance (Tarmac)                                                              0.5      60       0.5      60                        120          48
D and E Class (Tarsc)                                                 8        96      8        96       8        96                        288          48
Smallholder Areas                                                                      2        20      3.5       35                         55    -     48
Large-Farm Areas                                                      7        70      7        70      7         70                        210          48
Access Tracks                                                                         16         7      32        14                         21          48
Subtotal Chemelil                                               166              253              275                         694         146
MUHOROlII
Factory Entrance (Tarmac)                                                              1       120       1       120                        240          48
D and E Class (Tarmac)                                                1        12      1        12       1        12                          36         48
Smallholder Areas                                                                     16       160     32        320                        48i0         48
Large-Farm Areas                                                      9        90      9        90       9        90                        270          48
Access Tracks                                                                         28        12      56        24                          36         48
Bridges and Crossings                                                         220              220               220                         660         48
Subtotal Muhoroni                                               322              614               786                      1,722          48
RAMISI
Smallholder Areas                                                                     11       110     22        220                         330         48
Large-Farm Areas                                                     31       310     31       310      31       310                         930         48
Access Tracks                                                                         24         11     48        21                         12 48
Subtotal Ramisi                                                 310              431              551             -         1,292          48
Subtotal All Zones                                              978            1,798             2,222                       4,998         48
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                                    98              180               222                          500        48
Subtotal                                                      1,076            1,978             2,444                       5,498 *        8
Price Contingencies ?/                                                        258              653             1.075             :.986                   48
Total                                                         1,334            2,631             3,519                        7,484        48
For unit costs and other details see Anne"       Road distances are fram Table 29.  Includes incremental maintenance costs only.
21 See Appendix 1.
June 20, 1978






ANNEX 11
Table 3
_ 146 -
6UGAi R0BABT1ITATION PR3OJECT
Projeot Costs
Boosing end Social Asoeitiea 4/
(Ti3hs '000)
ForeigSn
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4            Year 5           Tear 6                   Erhcege
U=it Cost    To   Anoant    W.   A,,o-at         o.  Anoipt    NO.   A-ount    No.   Aont    No.   Asopt             Total           f
Al.  LOTNSICTION
H.".. e
7ypp  8                                  143                           2       286      2       286                                                           572          30
Type C                                    88                           3       264      3       264      2       176                                          704          30
Type D                                    65                          20     1, 300    15       975     15       975                                        3,250          30
Type E                                    32                          10       320     15       480     15       480                                        1,280          30
Type F                                    20                         140     2,8 0    130     2,60O   130    2,600                                          8,oo           30
Sobtital                                                      4,970             4,605            4,131                                       13,806          30
Other Faoilitie`
Buildings J/                                                                   300              300              300                                          200          30
other F-ailitiee                                            5,270             4,905            4.531                                       14,706          30
Arohiteote Fee, Soper-ision, 10%                            1,030               147              147              147                                        1,471           00
Infr-stroctoec, F-rnishing nd
Equipseot, 25% 3/                                                            1,318            1,226            1 1,133 
Sobtotat Al                                  1,030            6,735             6,278            5,611
B1.  sINTENARC                                                                                         155              280               357                        832          30
Sobtott1 Al + El                             1,030            6,735             6,433            6,091              397                      20,696          29
Physia1 Tonting-notee, 10%                                    103              673               643              609               40                      02068           29
Subtotal1.3                                                   7,408             7,076            6,700              437                -    2,55             29
Prioe Continsenohee 5J                                          57             1.037            1,700            21211               192                       .197          29
Tota1 Moenei                                 1,190            8,445             8,776            8,911              629                      27,951          29
A2. CONSTRUCTION
Typ                                     3 2                        70     2,240     70     2,260     60      1,050                                       6,4o            3o
Architect, P-ee, Super-isni, i0%                              .448                64               64               64                                          640          20
Infrn,lroot-rt , Foishi3g and
Eqnlp ..at, 27% 3/                                                              686o480                                                                     1:.6o         3
Sobtotal A2                                    448            2,864            2,864             2,464                                        8,640          09
B2. MAI0NNE 3/                                                                                          66              124              173                         360          30
6ubteta1 A20+ B2                               448            2,664             2,930            2,588              173                      98003           29
Phi-Ical COntiageaniest lOf                                     45              266               293              259               17                         900          29
6ubtotal                                       492            3,150             3,223            S,O47              190                       9903           2
Price  -ontingeancie 5                                          25              441               774              940               84                      o2264 I2
tatal Cherelil                                 518            3,591             3,997            3,787              274                      12,167          29
1020RONI
A3. CONSTRUCTION
Fype B                                   143                          2       266       2       266                                                           572          30
Type c                                    68                          3       264       3       264      3       264                                          792          30
Type D                                    65                          8       520       8       520      9       585                                        1,625          30
Type!                                     803                        15       480      15       48o     15       48o                                        1,440          30
Type? F                                    0                        228    4.660    206    4.5281  p26    4.52I                                            3.600           30"
SThbetal                                                      6,110             6,70    2        54849                                       18.029           0
Oth8r F oilities
Dispe-sas                                364                                  364                                                                             364          30
W-orker-  Clb                            220                                                                     P 220                                        200          30
Dorsilery/TraioleS Iaetitute/sterssry    221                                                    221                                                           221          30
Other Boildiege bJ t0                                                                          1830               40                                       2500           3
Sobtela                                                       1,111             1,5               ,660                    ~3,30                              38
Subtotl -anes and
Other Facilities                                            7,304             7,221            6,?29                                       21,334          30
dAehit-cta Fees, Sepe.etsles, io%                            1,49o              215               .1       24                                                 2,133          20
icfr-str-ctsae, FurnishiDg and
EqUiPuat, 2Sa  1ta                                                          1,6Y              1,76        _    1                                            53333
S.bt.t.1 A3                                  1,9               ,345             9,115            o,85                                        q6,60           29
B3. MAINTENANCE 3                                                                                      217              400              576                       1,193          30
iSbttets A3    B3                            1,490            9,345             9,332            9,250              576                      29,993          29
_Ose.1Cstageis '10%                                    19934                             933               9556                                                      2
Sbotahel                                     1,639           10,979           10 25             10,1755             634                      32,932          29
20cceatisg-acies  /                                             62            1 44o            21464            3.053               279                      7.318          29
Tetal Miheroel                               1,721           11,719            12,729           13,228              913                      40,310          29
0A1ISI
A.  CONSTRUWCN
Tpe A                                    210                          1       210       1       210                                                           420          30
TypeB                                    143                          1       143       1       143      1       143                                          429          30
Type C                                    88                          3       264      3        264      2       176                                          7C4          30
Typ D                                     65                          6       390       6       390      7       455                                        1,235          30
TFpe R                                    32                         15       480      15       480     14      W11                                         i,4o8          30
Type 0                                     3.7                      560o   P,oyp   so        2.077   560       2,072                                        6.216          30
Sebtelal                                                      3,559             3,559            3,291                                       10,412          30
Oth0r Facilities
Diapea..ry                               364                                  364                                                                             364          30
Other Bs1ldingN/                                                              600              600              7TO                                        1I3 80
btatal   - -                                                    964              60s               700                                        2,261          80
Other Fnilitiss                                             4,523             4,159            3,991                                      12,2676          30
Architect', Fen,                                               89Deiin,i%~      126               12O              126                                        1.260          20
mafrsetrectesrc, Pirciehiag sed
E    Eopna,o% I/                                                       I.0 i99                                                                       31743
Sebhital Ae                                                   51               5,325             5,119                         -1 17.4                       29
M&L.t.1 A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1331I 31
R4 4u~~Sibtetal 41 A14                         .04 90                         5.T80            5,4538            5,2359             33422 i89M
flsYsc-l ieetoog-aroe, 10%                                      0058565130                                                         31                        1793            29
Pricez Ccntie.geeies , 2/ f                                    949              385            111.i            1.9945              165     .         .       4.49D         29
9etal  nalsi                                 1,028            7,248             7,445            7,84o0              41                      24,102          29
SUIMAY ALL Z-
psbeiile CGetie           0                                  3,858           214,724          24,153           W23,200            1,463                      T7,511          29
S..bt   .1                                                                           2.~~~002.17  2328  1149 
osyst- C_,tisgcaeen1o                                       6,46            719             2,500             2.156616                                                       29
Price coaniesgearesubtote                                   4,3836         23T.0083        - 6.3T9             25,616            7203T                    i. 269            29
Tetel                                        4,457           31,004           32,947            33,765.           2,357                     104,530          29
4/ Far hoDcing  pecFifeti    end Other detain AeeA          IO!]
/ Onlades nifice buildlg, grgs, noreRe ed   iceieee etraeSt_.
3/  Talades streets, lighting, ater s,spp   and eae dispoasi; Prsie        e sad edP.eent fe  higher srede hones and ether fcilities.
/  C inouitcd at 2% no e t-roetlin eatSe.
5/ See AppesdiI 1.
Ja 20. 1978 !






- 147 -
AMu 11
KENYA                                                           Tsble 32
SUGAR BERA30LITTI0N PROJECT
Agriultus1 Re ra  -  ibos IJ
(1Nhe.~00
Foreign
Year; 1          0_e'r 2     Yeer 3         Year 4         Yewr 5         Year 6                  thaang.
unit Coat    So. Arn        No. A          No. Asat  No. Amount   No.  AAount  No.  ADt                  Total        8
A. CAPITAL COSTS
Laboratory Equipment
ReciproOating Bottle Shaker                  1                       1                                                                                8 1     90
Large Ovene/                                 4                       2         8                                                                      8       90
Large Hot Plate                              0.5                     2         1                                                                      1       90
Desicator                                    0.5                     2                                                                               13       90
Tsp-Loading Mettler Balance                 13                       3        13                                                                     13       90
Mioro-K3ehld.hl Appratus                     2                        3        2                                                                              90
Water Bath, 20- 1000C Thermostat            1                       1         1                                                                      3       90
Hameroill                                    8                       3         8                                                                      8       90
Abbe-Zeiss Refractometer                    21                       1        21                                                                     21       90
Brix Hydrometer 10O- 700B                    0.1                    10         1                                                                      1       90
Saccharimeter I/                             8                       1         8                                                                      8       90
Wet Disintergrater                           4                       1         4                                                                       4      90
Seves, Standard B22130, Mesh 18-35                                            1                                                                      1      90
Subtotal                                                          70                                                                     70       90
Farn Equipment
II-csrH-~   4317                                                     1        17                                                                     17       90
Rotary Mowr                                  8                       1         8                                                                      8       90
Subtotal                                                          25                                                                     25       90
Cane Breeding Station, Mteapa
Plastic Buckets                                                                3                                                                      3      50
Plaotic Sheeting for Marcoltes                                                 1                                                                      1       50
Cheoriosla for Preservation Solution                                           1                                                                             90
Seed Boxes                                                                     5                                                                      1      90
Methyl Bromide Cane                                                            I                                                                      1       90
Plastic Sheeting, Thick                                                        1                                                                      1      50
Shed for Seedlings, 15 m/9 m/4.5-m           8                       1         8                                                                      8      50
Hot Air Oven Witb Forced Air Circulator    4                         1         4                                                                      4       90
Tranpsort Van (for Arrowad Cane)            84                       1        84                                                                     84      90
Deep Free.. (for Fuss Drying)                8                       3.        8                                                                             0
Subtotal                                                         116
Ciivil Works
Houses, Type C                              88                                     14       352                                                     350       30
Rouss, Type E                               32                                      8       256                                                     256       30
Laboratory Empansi-n                                                                        500500                                                            30
Subtotal                                                                     1,510                                                   1,1O8       30
Emtensit nfTriTniig Facility                                                                                                                          8
Building 6                                 800                                      1       800                                                     800      30
Ancilliaries and Furnishings                                                                200                                                     200      50
Minibux                                    125                                      1       125                                                     125
Subtotal                                                                      1,125                                                   1,3.2       4
Subtotal All Capital Items                                       23.3         2,233                                                   2,4'4      14
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                             Il.22                                                                 2414     14
.ubtotal                                                         2I           2,1                                                     2,6884       5
Price Contingencies /                                                   30            589                                                     619       4o
TOTAL                                                            262          3,045                                                   3,307       40
B. RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries
Plant Breeder                              250                       1       250    1      250    1       250    1       250                     1,O0O       70
Plant Physiologist                         230                       1       230    1      230    1       230                                      690       70
Agroncnist/Emtension Specialist            230                       1       230    1       230    1      230                                       690      70
Assistant Agrononsit (Mtwapa)               50                       1        50    1       50    1        50    1        50                        200       -
Laborer                                      8                       14       32    8       64    8        64    8        64                        224      --
Subtotal Salaries                                                792            824            824           364                      2,T06      59
Other ShPendituo-B
Overseas Staff Training                     25        2        50    1        25    1       25    1        25    1        25                       150       90
Housing/Education Allowance                                                  158           128            128             45                        429      30
Travel                                                                        60            60             60             60                       240       50
Vehicle Funning Costs e                                                       84            84             84             84                       336       60
eeruit..ent and Resettlement                                                 199           199            199             70                       667-      80
Per Diem for Visiting Lecturers                                                             20             20             20                        60       20
Building Maintenance                                                                                       50             50                        100      30
Subtotal Other Expenditure.                        50            496            5316          566            3514                     1,982      59
Subtotal All  Iecurrent iens                       50          1,288          1,340         1,390            718                      4,786      59
Thyoical Contingencies, 3.0%                               5            J.2          3.4            1.39            72                       49        1
Subtotal                                           55          1,417          13,74         1,529            79                       5.265   59
Price Co.tingencie, 2/                                     3           227            383            581           395                      1,589       59
TOTAL                                              58          1,644          1,857         2,120          1,185                      6,854      59
C.  SUSOARY
Baseline Costs A and B                                           50          1,499          3,573         1,390            718                      7,230      53
Physical C-otingencies                                                15              3577           139            72                        723       53
Su.,tttta                                          55          1,614          3,3            1,29            790                       ,5        59
Price Contingancics                                       3            257            972            581           395                      2,208       53
TOTAL                                              58          1,906          4,902         2,110          1,185                     10,161      53
2/ The cost of researob carried out by the sugar companies is included in Tablee 5 - 12.
For details see Anne. 6.
/   For leaf drying and bagaesn/fibsr work.
3/ Includes pellet tubes and sac-harimeter callibration tubes.
For weeding.
5/ Details are described in Annesc 8
Iscludee 6-roca dornitusy, lecture room and kitchen/dining room facilities.
See Appendix 1.
Based on KShs. 2.00/hk  and 21,000 kn/year.
/ See Appendix 1; rtes for salaries hare been applied.
June 20, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Costs
Kenya Sugar Authority 1/
(KShs.'000)
Foreign
Exchange
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Total    E
A. Training 2/
Agricultural Training                   -           25         50         50         50                 175        100
Extension Training                     --           72         72         72         72                 288        100
Subtotal              --           97        122       122        122                  463       100
B. Studies
Nandi Hills Extension 3/                176        560       --        --         --                    736         50
Soils Investigation 4/                 --           78         72       -         --                    150         50
Groundwater Investigation.5/            130      1,008       --        --         --                  1,138         50
Topographic Mapping 6/                1,950       --         --        --         --                  1,950         70
Subtotal             2,256      1,646         72      --         --                 *3,974         60          1
Subtotal A + B       2,256'    1,743         194       122        122                4,437         65          w
Physical Contingencies, 10%             226        174         19         12        12                  443         65
Subtotal             2,482      1,917        213       134        134                4,880         65
Price Contingencies 7/                  124        307         55         51        67                  604         65
Total                2,606      2,224        268       185        201                5,484         65
1/  Does not include the cost of a consultancy in factory engineering/technology, which is included in Tables 21, 22, and 23.
2/ For details see Annex 8.
3/ For details see Annex 2.
4/ For details see Annex 2.
5/ For details see Annex 4.
6/ For details see Annex 5.
7/  See Appendix 1; the salaries contingencies schedule has been applied.
June 20, 1978



ANNEX 11
- 149 -                              Table 34
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Element Qualifying for Retroactive Financing
(KShs. '000)
Reference                    Amount to be
Table No.          Cost      disbursed
A. MIWANI
Tractors for cane cultivation               5            1,800         1,600
Tractors for cane transport                 5            5,300         4,800
Cane loaders                                5            2,100         1,900
Trailers                                    5            2,200         2,000
Vehicles                                    5            3,100         2,800
Road Maintenance Equipment                 29            2,300         2,100
Total Miwani                             16,800        15,200
B. MUHORONI
Crawler Tractors                            7            4,500         4,000
Four wheel Drive Tractors                   7            4,400         4,000
Agricultural Equipment                      7            1,100         1,000
Cane loaders                                7            1,600         1,400
Trailers                                    7            2,400         2,200
Road Maintenance Equipment                 29            2,000         1,800
Total Muhoroni                           16,000        14,400
C. RAMISI
Irrigation Equipme t                        3              500           400
Land Preparation2
-  Outgrowers                             20            2,300         2,100
-  Nucleus Estate                         19            2,000         1,800
Factory Equipment                          23            3,800         3,400
Factory Consultants                        23              300           300
Total Ramisi                              8,900         8,000
D. KENYA SUGAR AUTHORITY
Studies                                    33              900           800
GRAND TOTAL                              422600        38,400
1/ Covers expenditures from November 1, 1977 onwards.
2/ Includes surveying, clearing, ripping, ploughing, harrowing, and furrowing.
October 17, 1978



- 150 -
ANNEX 11
Appendix 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Costs
Contingencies
The Project Time Frame
1.        The calculations and phasing in the Appraisal Report are based
on calendar years; the Project period is 1979-84. All baseline costs are
up to date as of September 1978.
Physical Contingencies
2.        A 10% contingency has been allowed on all Project costs, except
on irrigation and drainage costs where a 35% contingency was applied because
the final engineering designs have not yet been prepared.
Price Contingencies
3.        Price contingency allowances have been applied to all Project
costs. The allowances are in accordance with World Bank guidelines on the
projected international inflation pattern, supplemented by the mission's
estimates as follows:
Foreign Costs                      1978     1979      1980-83
Civil works                         8        7.5         7
Equipment (including inputs)         7       6.5         6
Technical Assistance                 7       6.5         6
Local Costs                         10       9           8
November 6, 1978



ANNEX 12
-  151  -                      Table 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of World Bank Funds
(US$'000)
Bank Fiscal Year           Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter End             in Quarter                at End of Quarter
1979
September                        __                          __
December 1/                       --                         --
March  2/                         800                         800
June                            1,000                      1,800
1980
September                      1,400                       3,200
December                        2,500                      5,700
March                           3,200                      8,900
June                            3,800                     12,700
1981
September                      4,000                      16,700
December                       4,000                      20,700
March                          4,100                      24,800
June                           4,400                      29,200
1982
September                      4,400                      33,600
December                       4,500                      38,100
March                          4,500                      42,600
June                           4,400                      47,000
1983
September                      4,200                      51,200
December                       3,500                      54,700
March                          2,500                      57,200
June                           2,500                      59,700
1984
September                      2,000                     61,700
December                       2,000                     63,700
March                          1,800                      65,500
June                           1,800                     67,300
1985
September                      1,800                     69,100
December 3/                    1,600                     70,700
March                          1,300                     72,000
1/  Estimated quarter of signing of Loan Agreement.
2/ Estimated quarter of Loan Effectiveness.
3/ Estimated quarter of Project Completion.
June 2, 1978



SSSLI P~~~~ L9~~L4     ~                        ~L6 18 a-fl
'995L1 500   P40090M 00400  00004 -          0.   40!400 0000            0     0000d0    oo40Pfl03   fT
------   ------------ ------ ------  .    ........            ...... -----------(SN)                         009  A,0 ...         03 OoOOIOOI
I  t                 I   ------ --------------                      ------          ----- -111 -id00           -3         I 0 0 -S     W  .. V
-----------    -----    --------       ---------------0....0.......                                        ..   -   ........                          ----------------------,.0I.                                  d0-0,                             .9o .0
-------------- 00 -04s 000u0400S 004 W
0I.u110o 9   M qoo   040514003
AOIo,,OooV ,950s 00009
-9030050400ddV p0009
--OiOOO000IOI!0S~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------
-   ----------------              11. 1-010 I. i IV...     09 1
-   ----   ----    -------------------------                                             ..... fl03   00U       j Buoojooo
-         --------- - ---------- -------------9p0.ud. 1 .-.1.
---- ------------- I...403 u00M0M0N u9
------- ----- ------ --0--------- -004- 00003 04W 00090
-00004~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9Ilfl90l!50m0 N300909Nino
-- -- --   -- - --  - --- -- - ---- -   - - -- -  . . ... .  . . .. ..   . .  - --- -   - I ... .. . .. . .. .. . .. .. . ...  .. .   .. -    . m
-----   -----      ---          ..                           4 ..........   900930    00004
...   ....    ...            ...         -- I       - -       ..--          --            0_      3  ,p.m00  501.   V
----.--------------                           ----------- !4a 00 A-
------------ 4_000-3040000 A0Ud3
--      -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    ------   --- --- --- ----
-  -   -               -           -           -           -~                ~~             ~                ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -   - -    ------------f----l------.......                                                     ......  .............                                                   I3A"1
--------------------- ..........                                        --        --0003---------                       ---- --------                             -    0W     0i001  0030- 0
I                                                                                                                                        SNOliVH3dO AH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9013V111
-  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ -



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR RAMISI FACTORY
Year 1            Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Year 6
KEY ACTIVITI ES
Quarters 1st 2ndl 3rd 4th  st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2ndi3rd 4th 1st 2nd 3rd 4th  Ist 2nd 3rd 4th
ENGINEERING
Design Engineering
Technical Approval
Prepare Tender Documents
CANE RECEIVING & STORAGE
Gantry Cranes
Feeder Table                                                Jtf iJf  ft ***
Rehabilitate Equipment - - - -                             - -
CANE HANDLING & PREPARATION
Knife Sets                                                    U  l                                       I                                   I
Rehabilitate Cane Carrier
Rehabilitate Equipment
- - - - - - - -                            _, - -         -----I H                   --tt---                       - --------+-  -
MILLING STATION
Remove No. 5 Mill
Rehabilitate Mills
Install Turbine Drives
Rehabilitate Equipment
- - - _        _ - - - -                    _. - - -I dl--! } 1 e + --                                           - -- -   -- - - ---
JUICE TREATMENT & EVAPORATION
Install Juice Scale
Sulphitation Equipment
Install Juice Heater
Install Clarifier
Rehabilitate Rotary Filter                                                     I        "I
Install Rotary Filter                                                                    I"
Install Evaporator Set
Rehabilitate Equipment
-      -  -   -  -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -    -   -  - t -    - _L -  -m|t._   
SUGAR BOILING & CRYSTALLIZATION
Install Vacuum Pans
Rehabilitate Crystallizers                                                      l ll |   |       is       Bo III
Install Crystallizers                         l                                                     i  } |      l J *  
Rehabilitate Equipment
CENTRIFUGAL STATION
Automatic Batch Centrifugals                  l                                                                     1 |
Continuous Centrifugals
Rehabilitate Equipment
STEAM & POWER GENERATION
Install Boiler
Install Turbogenerator
Rehabilitate Diesel Generator
Rehabilitate Equipment
ANCILLARY SERVICES & FACILITIES
Electric Drives for Vacuum Pumps                                                       I  l     0 IIlIIIII|IIIIIIII
Condenser Water Pumps
Bagasse Storage Facilities                    l                      
Factory Water Supply                                         "  1lifil  ll
Rehabilitate Elect. Dist. System
Factory Workshop and Equipment                               l  b ilin
Laboratory Equipment                                           I l   
Procure Dump Trucks
Procure Molasses Trucks
*guuumma.n|i.sm Procurement (tendering, manufacturing, delivery)                                                                            World Bank-17568
Construction (foundations, structure, erection, commissioningi
June 8, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR MUHORONI FACTORY
Year 1            Year 2           Year 3             Year 4             Year 5            Year 6
KEY ACT IV ITI ES- -                                                -             - -                         -I,- - - - - -
Quarters 1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 4th  1st 2nd 3rd 1                              12nd|3rd 4th
ENGINEERING
Design Engineering
Technical Approval
Prepare Tender Documents
CANE RECEIVING & STORAGE
Modify Crane Gantry
Install Crane Gantry
Modify Feeder Tables I1
Rehabilitate Equipment
CANE HANDLING & PREPARATION
Install Heavy Duty Shredder-
Install Elevating Conveyor                                             Lu
Rehabilitate Equipment
JUICE TREATMENT & EVAPORATION
RehabilIitate Clarif ier                                     IUU f1k1
Install Juice Sulphitation Equipment                                 *9   UII         U     11
Rehabilitate Evaporator Vapor Lines  IJ U 1_l _   
and Condenser
Rehabilitate Equipment
ANCILLARY SERVICES & FACILITiES                I                                   - -       -                         
Install River Water Treatmernt Facilities     l        l|                                    UI          F       *
Install Effluent Treatment Lagoon             l        l      UfU    UU  
Factory Workshop Equipment                                      JJSIS 
Extend 6agasse Storage                                                                                          Il NM 111119f  f  
Laboratory Equipment                          l        l    S   ^                     
mumumimm9ii Procurement (tendering, manufacturing, delivery)
Construction (foundations, structure, erection, commissioning)
World Bank-17567
June 8, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR MIWANI FACTORY
KEY ACTIVITIES                     j      Year I             Year2             Year 3                        Year |                       Y
Quarters MMMM am95  XE= m                                                                           _s 2nd 3rd t
ENGINEERING
Design Engineering
Technical Approval
Prepare Tender Documents
CANE RECEIVING & STORAGE
Extend Mirrless Gantry
Extend Skoda Gantry
Install Feeder Table                                                        loilo
Rehabilitate Equipment
CANE HANDLING & PREPARATION
Modify Gruendler Shredder
Rehabilitate Equipment
MILLING STATION
Rehabilitate Equipment                                                                                                                   i     f
JUICE TREATMENT & EVAPORATION
Install Juice Scale                                                                                                                                                                 U1
Install Juice Heater                                                                                                                                                                L 
Rehabilitate Equipment
SUGAR BOILING & CRYSTALLIZATION
Install Crystallizers
Rehabilitate Crystallizers
Rehabilitate Equipment
CENTRIFUGAL STATION
Relocate Centrifugal
Rehabilitate Equipment
SUGAR  PACKING  STATION
Rehabilitate  Equipment
STEAM & POWER GENERATION
Install Boiler                                                      L"^ IIl I
Install PRV  Station
Rehabilitate  Equipment
ANCILLARY  SERVICES  &  FACILITIES
Extend Spray Pond
Relocate  Equipment
Install Bagasse Storage  Facilities
Laboratory  Equipment
111111EE11111111 Procurement (tendering, manufacturing, delivery)                                                                                   World Bank-17566
Construction (foundations, structure, erection, delivery)
June 8, 1978



- 156 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Organization
A. Organization of Cane Production
Basic Concept
1.        In each production zone the zonal sugar company would be the central
decision-making body for all matters concerning the production, harvesting,
transport and processing of sugarcane. All cane produced on the nucleus
estate, large farms and smallholder farms within each zone would be supplied
to the zone's sugar company. The zone boundaries, fixed administratively by
KSA, would be reviewed periodically or upon request by any of the sugar com-
panies in consultation with all parties concerned. Production arrangements
would be clearly defined in a cane supply contract between the zonal sugar
company and each individual cane producer. The company would be adequately
staffed, equipped and financed to meet its obligations as a service and
management organization under the terms of the cane supply contract. Cane
producers could contract with the company either as unaffiliated individual
farmers or through a cooperative organization which, together with the farmer,
would become party to the contract. Generally, a cooperative union would
represent the members of its affiliated societies. If a society is un-
affiliated with a union, the society would represent its members. The effi-
cient delivery of services to small farmers would depend upon effective coor-
dination to be provided by the societies and unions.
2.        The Kenya Sugar Authority would act as a regulatory, coordinating
and monitoring agency to create the necessary legal framework and provide
the first level of arbitration. All other organizations and institutions
presently involved in cane production would either cease to do so or coor-
dinate their activities with the zonal sugar company or the cooperative
system; involvement in activities other than cane production would be con-
tinued as appropriate. A formal mechanism would be established to improve
communications and coordination (para. 14). This basic organizational concept
would be applied equally in the Sugar Belt and at Ramisi.
Institutions and Functions
3.        The Sugar Companies.  Each sugar company would have an agricultural
department which would be responsible for the planning and coordination of all
activities related to cane production within the zone. The department would
be staffed and equipped to operate the company's own nucleus estate and
provide services to outgrowers as required. Each grower within the zone would



- 157 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
be re6-stered with the company. In addition, growers would be required to
enter into a cane supply contract with the company if either (a) a grower's
annual cane production exceeds 20 tons, or (b) the grower expects to avail
himself of any of the company's services. The terms of the contract for large
outgrowers would generally be in the nature of agreeing to supply and receive,
respectively, a certain approximate quantity of cane under specified con-
ditions, with only a limited amount of services to be provided by the company.
In contrast, smallholder outgrowers would receive a wide array of services.
4.        Smallholder outgrowers would be required, if their own plots are
too small, to form together with other farmers blocks of land of sufficient
size for efficient production of cane; unless company management determines
otherwise, a 10 ha block is considered to be the minimum size.  However,
boundaries within each block would be marked and identity of ownerhip of the
cane preserved until harvest time. To be accepted, the land would have to
be suitable for cane production as judged according to preestablished criteria
based on expected yields (Annex 6). Outgrowers would be obligated to partici-
pate in the production of their cane by clearing new land where this can be
done manually and performing the function of planting, fertilizing, weeding
and other functions as agreed according to the company's instructions. The
company would prepare the land for planting; provide treated seedcane,
fertilizer and other inputs as required; furnish extension advice; and harvest
the cane and transport it to the factory. The outgrower and his family would
have the right to be employed by the company to harvest his cane.
5.        Over the next 5-10 years most of these operations would be financed
by the company through an outgrowers loan. The company would establish a
loan account for each outgrower and enter all charges for services and inputs
rendered, including interest at the rate of at least 11% per annum and over-
head. The principal and interest amounts of the loan would be deducted from
the company's payment to the outgrower for cane delivered to the factory in
such a manner as to spread the burden of repayment reasonably evenly over the
initial, and subsequent ratoon, harvests.
6.        Upon request, the company would also provide services and inputs
to outgrowers on a cash rather than credit basis. This arrangement, which
would also be formalized in a cane supply contract, would apply to growers
having access to alternative sources of financing such as commercial banks,
AFC or the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS). Customarily, the
financing agencies in this case arrange with the sugar companies for the
collection of their loans at the time of delivery of the borrower's cane
to the factory. The same conditions concerning block size and farmer
participation would apply as for company-financed growers.
7.        The amounts the company would charge for the goods and services
provided to outgrowers would be set at levels estimated to ensure that the
aggregate of such amounts for any year does not exceed the costs to the
company of providing such goods and services. The company would operate
an adequate cost accounting system to determine the costs of its operations
and establish appropriate charges. Within four months from the end of each



- 158 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3
of its fiscal years, the company would furnish an annual report to KSA cover-
ing (a) the estimates made for the past fiscal year of the costs of its
outgrower-related operations, (b) the amounts actually charged outgrowers
during that year, (c) the company's current costs of those operations and
(d) proposed adjustments of current charges and tentative proposals for the
following year. The cooperative organizations would be given an opportunity
to comment on the proposals. In case of disagreement KSA would arrange
for negotiations between the zonal sugar company, cooperative union and
representatives of farmers who are not members of cooperative societies,
and act as an arbitrator if necessary.
8.        The Cooperative Unions and Societies.  These would represent their
members on all matters pertaining to cane production vis-a-vis the sugar
companies and KSA. The unions presently in existence are the Sugar Belt Co-
operative Union (SBCU) and the Muhoroni Cooperative Union (MCU). Unaffiliated
societies include the Nyanza Farmers Cooperative in the Sugar Belt and the
Cane Producers Cooperative at Ramisi. Each union or society would have had
its accounts up to the last fiscal year audited and submitted to the Registrar
of Cooperatives before it could enter into agreements with the sugar companies
or represent farmers under the Project. The unions would be consulted on all
major matters concerning outgrower cane production.
9.        The sugar companies would inform the unions and unaffiliated soci-
eties of the cane development plans in their respective zones and establish a
working relationship to assure smooth implementation. Farmers would in turn
be informed through regular cooperative channels. The unions/societies,
assisted by technical personnel from the sugar companies, would prepare
farmers to become contract cane growers for the companies, select and block
farmers' land and assist farmers and monitor the companies to assure that both
parties meet their obligations under the cane supply contract. The unions
also would continue to administer the CPCS and the Cooperative Thrift Scheme.
Under CPCS, which is financed by the Cooperative Bank of Kenya and would not
receive any Project funds, the unions would approve loan applications, arrange
for a cane supply contract and loan collection agreement with the factory,
assist with the supply of inputs and services where these are not supplied by
the sugar company (e.g. by farmer's choice or in case of ineligibility on
account of insufficient block size, etc.). However, a cane supply contract
with full services and financing provided by the sugar company rather than
CPCS would be the predominant arrangement initially and CPCS would be promoted
only gradually from its present very small scale. The rate of expansion of
CPCS would be determined by farmers' willingness to switch, in consultation
with the sugar companies and the unions, from company financing to CPCS
financing.
10.       All outstanding debts related to SBCU's past cane development
activities on behalf of Government would be transferred to the Ministry of
Agriculture. Maximum repayment of the debt portion owed by farmers would be
sought in cooperation with SBCU and the sugar companies. The portion of
SBCU's debt that cannot be allocated to farmers as well as uncollectable loans
to farmers would be written off. The Ministry of Cooperatives would undertake
to provide the necessary assistance to the unions/societies to enable them to



- 159 -
ANNEX 13
Page 4
complete their financial statements and submit them for a timely audit;
cooperative staff would be trained for their future functions as promoters of
outgrower cane production. The societies and unions would be reorganized into
viable entities where necessary.
11.       The Sugar Settlement Scheme.  The Sugar Settlement Organization
(SSO) in Muhoroni (and Chemelil after re-zoning) would be responsible ex-
clusively for settlement aspects and relinquish all agricultural functions
to the Muhoroni and Chemelil sugar companies and the cooperative unions and
societies. The SSO's primary objectives would be to establish a viable
settlement structure and to collect its outstanding debts from settlement
farmers.
12.       Steps would be taken by SSO to alleviate the problem of absentee
owners. It would carry out a census to determine exactly the degree and
nature of absenteeism in the scheme; it would also prepare a detailed plan
for allocating both the responsibility and the costs of cultivating the plots
owned by these absentees. One proposal to be considered would be the recom-
mendation that the sugar companies operate these farms on behalf of the
owners, charging them for all services rendered. It is recognized that such a
solution would be inefficient, as the companies would have to schedule crop
maintenance activities (especially weeding) on a large number of dispersed
plots. It would also impose higher credit risks on the companies as, in
practice, absentee owners cannot be made liable in case their accounts show a
loss at the completion of the crop cycle, and the companies would have to ab-
sorb the losses. Financial losses are more likely to be incurred on absentee
owners' plots due to the substitution of wage labor for unpaid farm family
labor.
13.       The Kenya Sugar Authority.  The KSA would not be directly involved
in company-outgrower production arrangements but would provide advice and
guidance and assume the regulatory fuctions vested in it. It would resolve
disputes as an arbitrator and assist the sugar companies and outgrower
organizations in dealings with other Government bodies. The Chief Executive
of KSA would be the chairman of the Sugar Belt Coordinating Committee (SBCC)
which would be established as the formal mechanism to improve communications
and coordination; other members would include each of the company General
Managers, the Executive Controller of the Sugar Settlement Organization, the
General Manager of SBCU and MCU, the chairman of Nyanza Farmers Cooperative
and others as may be required. The committee would meet regularly to review
problems, plan courses of action and monitor progress.
B. Infrastructure Maintenance
14.       To assure adequate maintenance of and equitable distribution of
maintenance costs for sugar roads and the drainage works a new system would
be adopted. The sugar companies would be equipped and staffed to maintain



- 160 -
ANNEX 13
Page 5
all roads, except tarmac roads, and major drainage infrastructure in their
respective zones. Infield drains would be maintained by the owners of the
land. The Ministry of Works and Ministry of Water Development would set
maintenance standards for roads and drainage, respectively, and certify
regularly that maintenance operations carried out by the companies are
adequate. The companies would be reimbursed for their expenditures related
to roads and drainage maintenance from a fund operated by KSA. This fund,
henceforth referred to as Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund (RDMF), would
be financed from a levy on sugar to be collected by KNTC on behalf of KSA.
The exact amount of the levy would be determined annually by KSA, based on
actual maintenance costs during the previous year and adjusted for current
price increases. The levy would not represent a new tax on sugar but rather
be deducted from existing taxes and levies (Annex 14). It has been assumed
in the evaluation that the RDMF would be operational by the time the first
maintenance expenditures are due under the Project in 1980. A tentative cal-
culation of the RDMF levy is included in Annex 15.
C. Organization of the Sugar Companies
The Proposed Organization Structure
15.       The proposed organization of the sugar companies consists of four
departments, each headed by a department manager who would report to the
general manager. These departments include the Agricultural, Factory, Finance
and Controller's and the Industrial Relations Department (Chart World Bank
17748). The new organization would be adapted to the organization presently
existing in each company and modified where necessary (para. 22). At Miwani,
Muhoroni and Ramisi the traditional management system would be modernized
by decentralizing authority and delegating more responsibility to lower-level
management personnel.
16.       The Agricultural Department.  This department would consist of the
Nucleus Estate Divsion, Outgrowers Division, Agricultural Services Division
and a research staff unit. The Nucleus Estate Division would be responsible
for the management and operation of the company's nucleus estate. The Out-
growers Division would plan and execute all activities in the outgrowers area
of the company zone and operate the company's extension service. The Agricul-
tural Services Division would provide all required technical and machinery
services and also be responsible for the maintenance of roads and drainage
works (para. 15). The research staff would conduct field trials and liaise
with the National Sugar Research Institute to obtain the best technology for
field-testing in the zone and extension to the growers.
17.       The expanded operations and the centralization of planning, sched-
uling and implementation of agricultural operations would greatly increase the
management requirement for a continuous flow of specific and timely informa-
tion on field operations. To meet this requirement, each company would



- 161 -
ANNEX 13
Page 6
establish a management information system for its agricultural department.
KSA would assist the companies in this effort with its own staff and, if
necessary, contract a management consulting firm.
18.       The Factory Department.  Divided into two operating and a control
division, this department would be in charge of cane processing. The
Engineering Division would be responsible for mechanical juice extraction
and for factory maintenance, and the Processing Division for the processing
of the juice and for the company's water supply. The Control Division
would monitor sugar quality and perform all required laboratory tests and
control measurements.
19.       The Finance and Controller's Department.  The department's General
Accounts Division and Cost Accounts Division would conduct the company's
central bookkeeping and cost accounting operations. The Materials and Plan-
ning Division would be responsible for the orderly supply and procurement of
all physical inputs and materials. The Finance Section would be concerned
with the company's financial requirements such as borrowing, lending, invest-
ing; capital structure and dividends; taxation; and financial aspects of
contracts. Two staff units would be engaged in budgeting and internal audit-
ing, respectively.
20.       The Industrial Relations Department.  Besides the Personnel Division
there would be a Social Welfare Division responsible for the company's medical
program, housing, etc. and a General Services Division responsible for securi-
ty, cleaning, etc. Two staff units would cover staff recruitment and training,
and salaries administration, respectively.
Company Reorganization
21.       Miwani.  The company's reorganization would involve the establish-
ment of a separate factory Control Division and Roads and Drainage Maintenance
Unit and Survey Unit; and staff units for budgeting, auditing, salaries
administration and agronomic research. Rearrangement of existing staff and
functions would be required to form the Outgrowers Division, Social Welfare
Division, General Services Division and Materials and Planning Division;
Finance Section, Workshop Section, Harvesting and Transport Section and Land
Preparation Section.
22.       Chemelil.  The relatively minor changes required would involve the
setting-up of a new factory Control Division, Roads and Drainage Maintenance
Unit, Survey Unit and staff units for auditing and salaries administration.
The staff and functions would be reorganized in the areas of factory control,
cost accounting, finance, budgeting, materials supply and planning, social
welfare, training and recruitment, general services, and cane harvesting and
transport.



- 162 -
ANNEX 13
Page 7
23.       Muhoroni.  An entirely new Agricultural Department would be
formed; the existing Nyando Estate management unit would be transformed
into the Nucleus Estate Division. Also added would be the Cost Accounting
Division, the Materials and Planning Division, and the staff units for
budgeting, auditing and salaries administration. The social welfare and
general services staff would be reorganized.
24.       Ramisi.  The company would require a major reorganization.  New
organizational entitities to be created would be the factory Control Division,
Cost Accounting Division, Materials and Planning Division, Outgrowers Division,
Roads Maintenance Unit, Survey Unit, and staff units for auditing, recruitment
and training, salaries administration and research. The remaining features
of the recommended organization would be established through reorganization
of the existing nine departments into the proposed four.
D. Management and Staffing
25.       The management agreements with Bookers at Chemelil, Mehta at
Muhoroni and EMCO (Kenya) Ltd. at Ramisi would continue to remain in force.
The Bank/IDA would be consulted in renegotiating these agreements when they
expire or in negotiating new agreements. The implementation of the Project
would be carried out under the terms of the existing agreements and no extra
compensation would be needed as the managing agents would benefit automatic-
ally from increased sugar production through a variable commission clause
already written into the agreements. Miwani would continue to provide its own
management and no outside management assistance is envisaged.
26.       Lower-level factory staff employment had built up in the past
under social pressures to levels which are too high for present operations
and would generally be sufficient to cope with the expanded production
resulting from the Project. Some additional key staff would be needed at
the management and technical levels, particularly in the companies' Finance
and Controller's Department and Agricultural Department. Whereas the entire
Agricultural Department would have to be staffed up at Muhoroni, only the
Outgrowers Division and research units would require staff additions in the
other companies. With the exception of a total of 3 expatriates, company
staff would be recruited locally. Staff training would be provided for
skilled staff at all levels (Annex 8).
27.       Agricultural labor requirements would increase as a result of the
Project. To alleviate potential shortages in cane harvest labor the Ministry
of Labor would review the market for such labor in collaboration with KSA and
the labor unions and prepare a plan for improvement in labor supply and
employment conditions, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, before December 31, 1979.
The plan would address the problems associated with working and living con-
ditions, job referral, transport and relocation, and compensation; specific
proposals would be prepared for Ramisi. In an effort to provide immediate
relief, the Project would improve staff housing in all zones (Annex 10).



- 163 -
ANNEX 13
Page 8
28.       The National Sugar Research Institute would be strengthened through
provision of additional staff and staff training. Three experts, one each
in the fields of plant breeding (four years), plant physiology and sugarcane
agronomy (three years), would be internationally recruited should suitable
local candidates be unavailable (Annex 6). The expanded functions of the
Kenya Sugar Authority would be undertaken with a combination of additional
staff employed by KSA and consultants whose terms and conditions of appoint-
ment would have to be acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
E.  Project Construction OrRanization
29.       The irrigation schemes at Miwani, Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi
would be implemented by consultants appointed and supervised by KSA. The
National Irrigation Board (NIB) would be responsible for the conversion of the
Ahero scheme and, after construction, for operational supervision of all
irrigation schemes. All works would be maintained by the respective owners
and, at Ahero, the NIB (Annex 4). The drainage component would be implemented
by consultants appointed and supervised by KSA (Annex 5). The sugar companies
would be responsible for agricultural development (Annex 6), factory improve-
ments (Annex 9), housing and social infrastructure (Annex 10), upgrading of
existing and construction of new unclassified roads and tracks in outgrower
areas (Annex 12), and company research and training. The companies also would
maintain the drainage and roads infrastructure for the Government (para. 15).
30.       The Ministry of Works would be responsible for the construction
of new and upgrading of existing classified roads in all areas and of un-
classified roads in large-farm areas and for the construction of bridges
and other major structures; it also would supervise the maintenance of roads by
the sugar companies (Annex 10). The Ministry of Agriculture would undertake to
strengthen the National Sugar Research Institute; in particular, it would
reopen the cane breeding station at Mtwapa and add a training center at Kibos
(Annex 6). The Kenya Sugar Authority would be the executing agency for the
four required studies, conduct specified training activities (Annex 8), and
appoint consultants for the irrigation and drainage components and for the
review and approval of the companies' factory component, and establish and
operate an infrastructure maintenance fund (para. 15). The Chief Executive of
KSA would be chairman of the Sugar Belt Coordinating Committee. The coopera-
tive unions and societies would assist in the implementation of the outgrowers
component (para. 8). The Sugar Settlement Organization would prepare a plan
for the reorganization of the Sugar Settlement Scheme and be responsible for
its implementation (para. 12).
January 20, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
NATIONAL SUGAR RESEARCH INSTITUTE
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
Production|             irctr f 
Economist
Agricultural
Cane Husbandry          WPhysiology                 silsati                                     Breaedin                P                        Engineering              Sugar
Cane HubandrV     Maturation                  Plerst                                     ant                      Eoolgy                  irrigation                Technology
E nWeed Agronm             Nutrition                                                                                   Drainage
Cane Anaiysis
|  K I BOS   |    | MTWAPA |                                                     Laboratory
Lasn with            Experimental
Plnt n                 Fields                                       
Adinisrati                  Library              Training Center
Ohce                                                                                                         Bank-t C617
World Ba.k-17617



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
MIWANI, CHEMELIL, MUHORONI AND RAMISI SUGAR COMPANIES
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
LIBOARD OIRECTORS |
43~~~~ -
FINAN  8, &  l                                       INDUSTRIAL   ff                          | AGRICULTURAL
|   DIVISION  l  l  DIVISION  |  |  DIVISION  l   n     DIVISION                                           RELATIONS
L ANOATORYSIS  l   q  STATION      l   4       MILL:NG    l             q      ACCOUNTS   l                                  q      WELFARE                          WORKSHOP S   A        OUTGROWERS
AND EVTER  l   J  CRTAPOREATION |   EELECTRICAL   l   |    lMTERIALS S.  |                          SSERVICS                     C        q  TRANSPORTA lON 
VI ANALY515VI  STATION                    DIV SECTIONSIO                                                                                                                                 DIVISION
CRYSTALLIZATION  ENGINEERING              PLANNING                                               SOC'A
LCABORATORY          CURINGAND               MECHANICALANTS                                                                         WELFARE
CENTR MIXEDFUGICE   l   2  EATGING   ENGINEERING                                                                                           TRAN. &RAIN
7   MEASUREMENT  X   n    STATION   l   H    SECTION      l
SAGGING STATION        TREATMENT
World B..k - 17748



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
World Sugar Production. Consumption, Exports, Imports
1960, 1970 - 76 Actual. 1977 - 85 Forecast
(Million Tons)
Forecast
Country Group          1960    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980            1985
Production
Developing             18.07   27.41   28.27   29.40   31.41   33.04   33.29   33.30   36.11   37.61   39.17   40.80    51.70
Developed              17.22   22.55   23.89   24.19   23.97   23.25   25.34   25.57   25.78   26.03   26.26   26.50    28.70
Centrally Planned      17.01   22.94   21.80   22.16   22.75   22.41   22.96   23.63   24.32   25.02   25.75   26.50    28.30
Total                  53.20   72.90   73.96   75.75   78.13   78.70   81.59   82.50   86.21   88.18   90.95   93.80   108.70
Consumption
Developing             13.61   22.31   24.07   24.61   25.21   26.75   27.00   28.45   29.98   31.60   33.31   35.10    42.80
Developed              23.55   31.42   31.43   31.89   33.17   32.24   29.40   31.59   31.45   32.53   33.64   34.80    38.90
Centrally Planned      12.06   18.39   18.89   19.51   20,33   20.78   20.89   21.46   23.07   23.36   23.64   23.90    27.00
Total                  49.22   72.12   74.39   76.01   78.71   79.77   77.29   81.50   84.50   87.49   90.59   93.80   108.70
Exports
Developing              6.55    8.29    9.10   10.84   11.03   11,34    9.63    9.82   10.01   10.20   10.40   10.60    15.00
Developed               1.28    2.42    2.56    3.47    3.04    2.67    2.83    2.94    3.05    3.16    3.28    3.40            3.40
Centrally Planned       6.43    7.34    5.68    4.63    5.30    5.67    6.03    5.40    5.20    5.60    5.60    5.60            5.60
Total                  14.26   18.05   17.34   18.94   19.37   19.68   18.49   18,16   18.26   18.96   19.28   19.60    24.00
Imports
Developing              3.28    4.00    4.44    4.39    5.15    4.75    4.62    4.96    5,33    5.72    6.14    6.60            8.70
Developed               9.92   10.69   10.92   10.88   10.37   11.93    9.95    9.96    9.97    9.98    9.99   10.00    11.00
Centrally Planned       1.96    2.94    1.67    3.12    3.99    2.83    4.23    3.93    3.65    3.39    3.15    3.00            4.30
Total                  15.16   17.63   17.03   18.39   19.51   19.63   18.80   18.85   18.95   19.09   19.28   19.60    24.00
Source:  World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department
July 20, 1977
fDm



-  167  -           ANNEX 14
Table 2
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
World Sugar Prices, Selected Periods and Years 1/
(US(/lb, Raw)
In Current          In Constant Dollars
Year/Period          Dollars           1977 2/         1978
Actual
1965-69                 4.7             11.8           12.6
1970-74                10.5             18.6           19.9
1975                   20.4             22.6           24.2
1976                   11.5             12.6           13.5
1977                    8.1              8.1            8.7
1978 (Estimate)        10.0              9.4           10.0
Projected
1979                   12.0             10.5           11.3
1980                   14.5             12.0           12.8
1985                   25.0             15.5          16.5
1990                   32.0             15.5          16.5
1/ Up to and including 1974, the prices represent a weighted
average of USpreferential, Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
and ISA daily price - f.o.b. and stowed Caribbean ports.
Beginning 1975 the prices represent ISA daily prices.
2/  Deflated by the index of manufactured goods (CIF index,
SITC 5-8 classification).
Source: World Bank, Economic Analysis and Projections
Department (April 12, 1978).
June 14, 1978



-  168  -                    ANNEX 14
Table 3
KENYA
SUGAR REHABIiTTA-TION PROJECT
Population and Sugar SupplytandtConsumption, 1955 - 78
Sugar
Year     Population          Production        Imports          Consumption
V/      Total      Per Capita
('000)            ----- --  ('000 t) ------ ----              (kg)
1955       7,001                  17              38         55           7.9
1956       7,207                  20              45         65           9.0
1957       7,419                  20              49         69           9.3
1958       7,640                  28              43         71           9.3
1959       7,872                  28              50         78           9.9
1960       8,115                  30              58         88          10.8
1961       8,371                  33              60         93          11.1
1962       8,641                  33              67        100          11.6
1963       8,924                  38              60         98          11.0
1964       9,219                  35              70        105          11.4
1965       9,527                  29              83        112          11.8
1966       9,847                  36              85        121          12.3
1967      10,180                  60              61        121          11.9
1968      10,526                  81              51        132          12.5
1969      10,881                 115              27        142          13.1
1970      11,247                 125              32        157          14.0
1971      11,622                 124              64        188          16.2
1972      12,008                  90             102        195          16.2
1973      12,406                 138              66        204          16.4
1974      12,819                 164              61        225          17.6
1975      13,251                 160              33        193          14.6
1976      13,701                 167              32        199          14.5
1977      14,170 2f              181              34        215          15.1
1978      14,697 -               194              43        237          15.6
1/ Includes stock changes.
2/ Tentative estimate.
Source: World Bank, Population and Human Resources Division;
Kenya Sugar Authority, Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
November 7, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sugar Production by Company. 1974-1977 Actual; 1978-1990 Projected
('000 tons)
T'otal Production
Excluding         Including *   Rehab.
Year     Ramisi  Muhoroni  Chemelil  Miwani  Mumias  Nzoia  S. Nyanza        Rehab. Project  Rehab. Project  Project
1974       11       28         39       30        56      -         -             164              164
1975        8       26         4o       27        59      -         -             160              16o
1976        6       26         46       25        64      -         -             167              167
1977       11       23         44       22        81      -         -             181              181
1978        9       26         43       27        go      -         -             195              195
1979        9       26         43       27       100 2/   -         -             205              205
1980        9       26         43       28       115      -         -             220              221             1
1981 1/    13       26         43       29       125     28 3/    25 3/           283              289             6
1982       18       4o         49       40       135     36       35              311              353            42      O
1983       22       49         53       47       145     48        45             343              4o9            66      %
1984       25       52         55       50       155     52        56             368              445            77
1985       30       62         59       56       165     52       54              375              478           103
1986       30       62         59       56       175     52       75 4/           406              509           103
1987       33       62         59       56       185     52       80              422              527           105
1988       36       62         59       56       185     52        87             428              537           109
1989       36       62         59       56       185     52       89              430              539           109
99g0       36       62         59       56       185     52       84              425              534           109
1/  ProJect time frame pushed back by one year due to delay in project effectiveness.
2/ Extension of factory to 156,000 tons of sugar to become operational July 1978. Since the nucleus estate is
fully productive all new cane would have to come from small outgrowers therefore the ultimate sugar
production from presently 81,000 tons to 185,000 tons has been phased over roughly eight years.
3/ New projects; estimated sugar production has been pushed back one year due to implementation delays and
start-up problems.                                                                                                  p E
4/ Includes a. Nyanz extension (27,000 tons of full development) which could be postponed if necessary.
My 1
May 10, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Alternative Growth Paths of Sugar Consumption, 1978-1990
Annual Per Capita Growth:  3.5%             Annual Per Capita Growth:  4.5%
Population         Per Capita             Total                Per Capita              Total
Year           (Million        Consumption (kg)   Consumption ('cOOt)    Consumption (kg)   Consumption ('000t)
1977             14.2                15.1                  215                   15.1                  215
1978             14.7                15.6                  229                   15.8                  232
1979             15.2                16.2                  246                   16.5                  251
1980             15.7                16.7                  262                   17.2                  270
1981             16.3                17.3                  282                   18.0                  293
1982             16.9                17.9                  303                   18.8                  318            1
1983             17.5                18.6                  326                   19.7                  345
1984             18.1                19.2                  348                   20.5                  371           o
1985             18.7                19.9                  372                   21.5                  402
1986             19.4                20.6                  4oo                   22.4                  435
1987             20.0                21.3                  426                   23.4                  468
1988             20.7                22.0                  455                   24.5                  507
1989             21.5                22.8                  490                   25.6                  550
1990             22.2                23.6                  524                   26.8                  595
1/   The projections in this table do not represent a demand forecast but merely show the implications
on total demand, if per capita consumption levels were to grow smoothly at 3.5% and 4.5% per year
respectively.
May 10, 1978                                                                                                         I|x
i    tP



KENYA
SUGAR RE&BILITATION PROJECT
Production and Conaumption Pro actions for 1978-1991
Price Elasticity of Demand: -1.0
Domestic                 Retail       Excise      Per Capita       Total       Surplus (+) 4/      Estimated   Build up   Possible Surplus
Population   Sugar Production 1/          Price 2/       Tax       Consumption   Consumption   Deficit (-)          Unofficial       of          for Worli/
Year    (Million)       ('000 tons)              (ksh/ton)   (ksh/ton)      (kg) 3/      ('000 tons)   ('000 tons)           Exports      Stocks        Exports -
1978      14.7              195                    4,5oo       1,303         16.14           237            -42                10-- 
1979      15.2              205                    4,275       1,078         17.30           263            -58                10           --             __
1980      15.7              221                    4,050          853        18.60           292            -71                10
1981      16.3              289                    3,825          628        20.06           327            -38                10-- 
1982      16.9              353                    3,600          403        20.39           345            + 8                10           --             __
1983      17.5              409                    3,600          403        20.79           364            +45                10           20             34
1984      18.1              445                    3,600          403        21.06           381            +64                10
1985      18.7              478                    3,600          403        21.40           400            +78                10           20             48
1986      19.4              509                    3,600          403        21.75           422            +87                10           --             75
1987      20.0              527                    3,600          403        22.10           442            +85                                                      F'
1988      20.7              537                    3,600          403        22.46           465            +72                10           __             62
1989      21.5              539                    3,600          403        22.82           491            +48                --           __             48
1990      22.2              534                    3,600          403        23.19           522            +12                --           __             12
1991      23.3              539                    3,600          403        23.57           549            -10
1/   From Table 4.
2    Retail prices expressed in 1978 values terms, reflect reductions of about 5% per annum until retail
prices equal ex-mill price (ksh 2,800/ton) plus cost of sugar distribution (ksh 397/ton) and excise
duties of ksh 403/ton.
3/   Based on the assumption of a rise in per capita real income of 2.7% p.a., an income elasticity of demand
of 0.6, and a price elasticity of demand of -1.0, no price effect is assumed after the retail price is
reduced to ksh 3,600/ton in real terms.
4/   These surpluses do not take stocks, specialized exports to Uganda and Tanzania  into account.  Furthermore,
the South Nyanza Project expansion of 27,000 tons of sugar could be phased according to requirements.
5/   Assumes build up 80,000 tons stocks to allow for seasonal variations, annual shutdown of factories, and
normal wholesale, retail and consumer stocks, informal exports to neighboring countries of 10,000 tons
per annum.  If South Nyanza second stage were delayed by three years, surpluses would be reduced by
15,000, 20,000 tons and 27,000 tons in 1986, 1987 and 1988, respectively.
May 12, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sugar Prices, 1966-77 1/
Effective Date
October     April       March        February    March         January       May
1966       1969        1972          1974        1975          1976        1977
(KSha. Per Ton)
A. Prices of Sugar
Paid to Factory                    919         905       1,080         1,230      1,860         2,300        2,800
Excise Duty                       n.a.         441         441           441         441          441        1.000
Ex-factory Price              n.a.       1,346        1,521         1,671      2,301         2,741        3,800
Sugar Equalization Levy           n.a.         100         100           500        800         1,362          303
Distribution Cost                 n.a.          25          49            49          71           70           70
Price to KNTC                   n.a.       1,471       1,670         2,220      3,172         4,173        4,173
KNTC Margin                       n.a.          18          18            18          38           32           32
KNTC Selling Price              n.a        1,489       1,688         2,238      3,210         4,205        4,205
Wholesale Margln                  n.a.          34          34            34          40            45          45
Wholesale Price                 n.a.       1,523       1,722         2,272       3,250        4,250        4,250
Retail Margin                     n.a.         127         128           128         250          250          250
Retail Price                   1,550      1,650        1,850         2,400      3,500         4,500        4,500
B.  Price of Sugarcane 1/                46          52           52           62          92           105         133
C. Increases
Price to Factory  (Z)             n.a.        -1.5        19.3          13.9        51.2         23.7         21.7
KNTC Margin        (2)            n.a.        n,a.           0             0       111.1        -15.8            0
Wholesale Margin  (Z)             n.a.        n,a.           0             0        17.6         12.5            0
Retail Margin      (2)            n.a.        n.a.         0.8             0        95.3            0            0
Retail Price       (%)            n.a.         6.5        12.1          29.7        45.8         28.6            0
Cane Price         (%)            n.a.        13.0           0          19.2        48.4         14.1         26.7
D. Ratios
Cane Price/Factory Price         0.050       0.057       0.048         0,050      0.049         0,046        0,048
Cane Price/Retail Price          0.030       0.032       0.028         0,026      0.026         0,023        0,03u
Factory Price/Retail Price       0.593       0.548       0.584         0.513      0.531         0.511        0.622
1/  Except for 1977, cane prices at Ramisi averaged about KShs. 2/t less than the prices indicated.
Source: Ministry of Commerce and Industry
December 9, 1977
m. 



KEA
SUGAR RMUA2T!IION PROE CT
Price tructure of Imported Sugar
1980 ~/                   ,1985%!
1975/76     Financial                     Economic                                         Economic
2                      Without Shadow-Pricing With Shadow-Pricing       Without Shadow-Pricing With Shadow-Pricing
of Foreign Exchange   of Foreign Exchange       of Foreian Exchange   of Foreign Exchange
World Market, Raw  / US/lb                      13.6                  13.6                   13.6                      15.9                   15.9
Refining Margin       US/lb                        34.3                                       4.3                       4.3 6                  4.3
Subtotal     US/lb                     1i87                 17.9                    17.9                     20.2                    20.2
Ocean Freight         US/lb                      1.1                   1.1                    1.1                       1.1                    1.1
Total c & f Mombasa   US/lb                     20                                           19.0                      21.3                   21.3
--------------------------------------------__----_ KShs./t ---------------------------------------------------
Total c & f Mombasa                 3,327        3,682                3,498                  4,608                     3,922                  5,166
Insurance                               4           62                   62                     62                        6                      65
Subtotal                                                     3,560                  '4,670                    3,9'                   5,231
Port Wharfage                          51           48                   48                     56 7                      50                     58 y
Unloading                              12           16                   16                     16                        16                     16
Port Handing                           29           29                   29                     29                        32                     32
Transport (Dockaide) and Weighing      13           18                   18                     21                        18                     21
Agency Fee (K.F.A.)                              __4                      4                      4                         55
Subtotal LAnded                                              ,7   /                                                                  5,3b3 
Customs Duty                          441
Total Inland Cost
Storage (Dockside) 2/                  1
Cost ex-Mombasa
Rail Freight to Nairobi 2/            104
Cost, Railside Nairobi     4.031
1   Expressed in terms of (January) 1978 constant prices (Anne4 i).
Average of three contracts, totaling 30,250 t, all concluded in October 1975 with suppliers from Ireland, CSSR, and
the United Kingdom and delivered in December, 1975, February, 1976 and May, 1976, respectively.
3/ Converted at an exchange rate of KRhs. 8.35 . US$ 1.00.
Converted at an exchange rate of KShs. 11.0 . US$ 1.00.
/ F. o. b. and stowed at Caribbean ports.
Refining margin reduced by US 1.0/lb to account for difference in degree of refining between imported and domestic sugar.
7/ Assuming a 50% foreign exchange componmnt.
Import parity price used in ecoaic  may il   (AUncextJ.
T/ Iannd storage and local distribution cost: from NbaNiNe are assued to be identical to similar costs incurred for dceatically
-Pratesd ege r      ll gate.
July 20, 1977
IF '-
4|-



ANNEX 15
-  174  -               Table 1 A
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Sugar Mills Limited
Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
(KShs. Million)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977 1'  1978-2/
Sales                                41       39       50       59      65       65
Variable Costs                       -23,     22       31       34      41       41
Gross Income                       18       17       19      25       24       24
Fixed Expenses                       10       14       15      21       21       21
Operating Income                    8        3        4       4        3        3
Interest                              1        1        1       2        2        2
Income Before Taxes                 7        2        3       2        1        1
Income Taxes                          3        1        1       1        1       --
Net Income                          4        1        2       1       --        1
Dividends                              1       1        1        1       1        1
Addition to Retained Earnings          3      --        1       --      (1)      --
Retained Earnings                   3        3        4       4        3        3
1/ Estimated.
2/ Projected.
June 26, 1978



1 175  -                      ANNEX 15
Table 1 B
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Sugar Mills Limited
Pro-forma Profit andjLoss  Statment
for the Years ended December 31
Without Project
(KShs. Million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Sales                                75      75       75      75       75      75
Variable Costs                       46      45       42      42       42      42
Gross Income                       29      30       33      33      33       33
Fixed Expenses                       24      24       25      25       25      25
Operating Income                    5       6       8        8       8        8
Interest                              2       2        2       1       1        1
Income Before Taxes                 3       4       6        7       7        7
Income Taxes                          1       2        3       3       3        3
Net.Income                          2       2        3       4       4        4
Dividends                             1       1        1       1       1        1
Addition to Retained Earnings         1       1        2       3        3       3
Retained Earnings                   4       5       7       10      13       16
June 1, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Sugar Mills Limited
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
With Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10 Year 11
(1979)
Sales                       76       80      83,    112      132     141      159     161      162      162      162
Variable Costs              47       44      42      54       64      69       79       79      80       80       80
Gross Income              29      36       41      58       68      72       80      82       82       82       82
Fixed Expenses              25       29      31      35       36      36       37      37       37       37       37
Operating Income           4        7      10      23       32      36       43      45       45       45       45
Interest                     2        5       8      11       12      12       10       9        8        8        7
Income Before Taxes        2       2        2      12       20      24       33      36       37      37        38
Income Taxes                 1       1        1       6        9      11       15      17       17       17       17
Net Income                 1        1       1       6       11      13       18      19       20       20       21
Dividends                    1        1       1       1        1       1        1       1        1        1        1
Addition to Retained
Earnings                  --      --       --       5       10      12       17      18       19      19        20
Retained Earnings          3       3        3       8       18      30       47      65       84     103       123
1/ From Table 1 A.
June 30, 1978
tX
U' 



KENYA
SUGAR REH8BILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Sugar Mtills  Limited
Balance Sheet
At Dacember 31
(KShs.Million)
With Project
1973       1974       1974       1975.        1977          1978        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10   Year
Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Estimated    Forecast             (1979)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                     108        110         111        114         114            114         118         142        168        195         205        206        212         227        234         245        252
Less Depreciation                               --          2           4          6           8              8          10          15         23         32          43         53         64          75         86          97        107
Subtotal                                 108        108         107        108          106           106         108         127        145        163         162        153         148        152        148         148        145
Current Assets
Nucleus Estate Plantations                      --         --          --         --          --             --           1           7         13         14          14         14          13         11         11          10          9
Accounts Receivable - Outgrovers                --         --         --          --          --             --           2         10          19         26          32         34          30         26         24          22         21
Accounts Receivable - Others                     2           2          3          3            3             3            3          2          2          3           2          3           3          3           3          3          3
Other Inventories                                7          8           9         10          10             10          10          10         10         10          10         10          10         10         10          10         10
Cash and Bank Balances                          --         --         --          --           1              1                       I-  1      1          1           9         18          34         49         67          83        102
Cash Surplus Adjustment                         --         -           --         --          --             --           3           6          9         12          12         12          12         12         12          12         12
Subtotal                                    9         10         12         13           14            14           19         36         54          66         79          91        102        lil         127        140        157
Less Current Liabilities
Short-term  Loans                               12         11          13         17          17             17          15          15         14         13          12          8          --         --         __          __         __
AccountsPayable                                  53 5                              33                                     4           3          3          8          11         13          17         19         19          19         20
Subtotal                                   17         18         18         20           20            20           19         18         17          21         23          21         17          19         19         19          20
Net Working Capital                                (8)        (8)        (6)        (7)          (6)            (6)         --         18         37          45         56          70         85         92         108        121        137
Net Assets                               100         100        101        101          100           100          108        145        182         208        218         223        233         244        256        269         282
LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt
Rehabilitation Loans                            __         __         __          _           __             __            8         45         82        103         103         96          89         82          75         69         62
Others                                          --         --          --         --          --             --
8         45         82        103         103         96          89         82          75         69         62
Total Long-term Debt                       --         --         --         --           --             --
NET WORTH
Company Equity - Capital                          50          50         50         50           50            50           50         50         50          50         50          50         50          50         50         50          50
- Reserves                       47          47         47         47           47             47          47         47         47          47         47          47         47          47         47          47         47
Subtotal                                   97         97         97         97           97             97          97         97          97         97          97         97          97         97         97          97         97
Retained Earnings                                   3          3          4          4            3              3           3          3           3          8         18          30         47          65         84        103         123
Total Net Worth                          100         100        101        101          100           100          100        100        100         105        115         127        144         162        181         200        220
Total Net Worth plus
Liabilities                            100        100         101        101         100            100          108        145        182         208        218         223        233         244        256         269        282
June 20, 1978
I|



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Sugar Mills Limited
Pro-forma Funds Statement with Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1  Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11
(1979)
Income Before Taxes             2        2       2       12      20       24       33      36       37       37       38
Depreciation                    3        5       7        9      10       11       11      11       11       11       11
Source from Operations        5        7       9       21      30       35      44       47       48      48        49
Plant Investment                5       24      26       27        9       1        7      15        7       11         7
Net Trading Assets              3       14      15        5       3        6       (2)     (8)      (2)      (3)       (2)
Dividends                       1        1       1        1       1        1        1       1        1        1         1
Taxes                           1        1       1        6       9       11       15      17       17       17       17
Major Uses                   10       40      43       39      22       19      21       25       23       26       23
Cash Flow Before Financing    (5)    (33)    (34)    (18)         8       16      23       22       25      22        26
Financing                       8       37      37       21      --       (7)      (7)     (7)      (7)      (6)       (7)
Cash Flow Surplus/(Deficit)    3         4       3        3       8        9      16.      15       18      16        19
Cumulative Cash Flow
Surplus/(Deficit)             3        7      10      13       21      30       46       61       79      95       114
June 20, 1978
n



- 179 -
KENYA                                                   ANNEX 15
Table 4
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Sugar Mills Limited
Financial Rate of Return   1/
(KShs. Million)
Capital Costs                                             Recurrent Costs
Year            Initial            Replacement                                 Variable       Non-Variable         Net
Investment       Of Capital Items      Total       Revenue       Costs  .         Costs          Benefit
1                  5                   -                5            1              1               -               -
2                 24                   -               24            5              2               2               1
3                 26                   -               26            8              3               2               3
4                 27                   -                27          37             13               3              21
5                  9                   -                9           57            22                4              31
6                  1                   -                1           66            27                5              34
7                  2                   5                7           84            37                5              42
8                  1                  14               15           86            38                5              43
9                  -                   7                7           87            39                5              43
10                  _                  11                11          87            39                5              43
11                  -                   7                 7          87            39                5              43
12                  -                   4                4           87            39                5              43
13                  -                   8                8           87            39                5              43
14                  -                  15               15           87            39                5              43
15                  -                   7                7           87            39                5              43
16                  -                  11               11           87            39                5              43
17                  -                   7                 7          87            39                5              43
18                  -                   3                3           87            39                5              43
19                  -                   6                6           87            39                5              43
20                  -                  15                15          87            39                5              43
21                  -                   8                 8          87            39                5              43
22                  -                  11                11          87            39                5              43
23                  -                   8                8           87            39                5              43
24                  -                   3                 3          87            39                5             43
25                  -                   6                 6          87            39               5              43
Financial Rate of Return
Basic                                  34%
Sugar Price Minus 5%                   307.
Sugar Price Minus 107.                 26%
10% Increase in Variable Costs         307.
10% Increase in Capital Costs          31%
107 Increase in Non-Variable Costs   34%
One Year Delay in Output               25%
1/  All costs and revenues expressed in constant 1978 prices.
2/ Includes investments in agriculture, irrigation, factory entrance road, company administration,
housing and social amenities.
3/  Proceeds from the sale of sugar at KShs. 2,800/t and net revenue from molasses.
4/ Expenses directly related to agricultural and factory operations and cane purchase from outgrowers.
5/ Salaries of permanent staff and other recurrent costs.
June 20, 1978



- 180 -
ANNEX 15
Table 5 A
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Chemelil Sugar Company Limited
Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
(KShs. Million)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977 -1  1978 2
Sales                                  39       50      74      105     113      113
Variable Costs                         25       31      43       52      57       57
Gross Income                        14      19       31       53      56       56
Fixed Expenses                         18       24      29       33      35       35
Operating Income                    (4)      (5)      2       20      21.      21
Interest 3/                            21      15        5       (2)      2        2
Income Before Taxes                (25)    (20)      (3)     22       19       19
Income Taxes 4/                        --      --       --       --      --       --
Net Income                         (25)    (20)      (3)      22      19       19
Non-Recurring Items                    --       -                --      --       19
Addition to Retained Earnings         (25)    (20)      (3)      22      19
Retained Earnings                 (114)   (134)   (137)   (115)    (96)    (96)
1/  Estimated.
2/ Projected.
31 Includes foreign exchange losses and gains for 1973 through 1976.
4/ No taxes paid in 1976-77-78 because losses may be carried forward
for tax purposes.
June 1, 1978



-W131 -
ANNEX 15
Table 5 B
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Chemelil Sugar Company Limited
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
Without Project
(KShs. Million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Sales                                 124     124     124      124      124     124
Variable Costs                         61      59       56      56       56      56
Gross Income                        63      65       68      68      68       68
Fixed Expenses                         41      41       41      41       41      41
Operating Income                    22      24      27       27      27       27
Interest                                2       2        2       2        2       2
Income Before Taxes                20       22      25       25      25       25
Income Taxes                           --      --       --       1       10      13
Net Income                          20      22       25      24      15       12
Dividends                               7       7        7       7        7       7
Addition to Retained Earnings          13      15       18      17        8       5
Retained Earnings                  (83)    (68)    (50)    (33)    (25)    (20)
June 1, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Chemelil Sugar Company Limited
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
With Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10 Year 11
(1979)
Sales                       124     124      124      140     152      156      167      167      167      168       168
Variable Costs               62      58       55       63       69       71      78       78       77       78        78
Gross Income               62      66       69       77      83       85       89       89       90       90        90
Fixed Expenses               41      44       46       49       52      54       54       54       54       54        54
Operating Income           21      22       23       28      31       31       35       35       36       36        36
Interest                      2       2        2        2        2       2        1        1        1        1         1
Income Before Taxes       19       20       21       26      29       29       34       34       35      35        35          e
Income Taxes                 --      --       --       --        8      13       15       15       16       16        16
Net Income                 19      20       21       26       21      16       19       19       19       19        19
Dividends                     7        7       7        7        7       7        7        7        7        6         7
Addition to Retained
Earnings                   12      13       14       19       14       9       12       12       12       13        12
Retained Earnings         (84)    (71)    (57)    (38)    (24)    (15)         (3)       9       21      34        46
June 30, 1978
"JuI-



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Chemelil Sugar Company. Limited
Balance Sheet
at December 31
(KSha. Million)
With Pro ject
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977         1978    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11
Actual   Actual   Actual   Actual   Estimated   Forecast  (1979)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                    95      107       121       124        134          134      147        174       193        215        234        249        269        298        317        340         360
Less Depreciation                             34       39        44        49         54           54       64         78         95       114        135        158        180        203        226        248         271
Construction in Progress                         2        4         5         4          4            4        4          4          4          4         4          4          4          4          4          4           4
Subtotal                                63        72        82       79         84           84       87        100        102        105        103         95.        93         99         95         96          93
Current Assets
Nucleus Estate Plantation                      3         3        5         7          7            7        7          9         10         13        16         18         18         18         19         19          20
Accounts Receivable - Outgrawers               6       11        11        12         12           12       14         19         28         33        36         39         40         41         41         42          44
Accounts Receivable - Others                   2        4         2         4          4            4        4          4          4          4          4         4          4          4          4          4           4
Other Inventories                             11       24        25        26         26           26       26         26         26         26        26         26         26         26         26         26          26
Cash and bank Balance                         --       --        --         5          5            5       17          7          7        13         20         29         40         43         56         65          75
Subtotal                                22        42        43        54        54           54        68        65         75         89        102        116        128        132        146        156         169
Less Current Liabilities
Short-term Loans                              10       13        15         2          2            2        2          2          2          2          2          2         2          2          2          2           2
Dividends Payable                             -        --        --        --         --           --        7          7          7          7          7          7         7          7          7          7           7
Accounts Payable/Accrued Charges              12       33        13        16          5            5        5          5          5          5          5          5         5          5          5          5           5
Subtotal                                24        46        28        18         7            7        14        14         14         14         14         14         14         14         14         14          14
Net Working Capital                           (2)       (4)      15        36         47           47       54         51         61         75         88       102        114        118        132        142         155
Net Assets                              61        68        97       115        131         131       141        151        163        180       191        197        207        217        227        238         248 w
LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt
Rehabilitation Loans                          --       -         -         --         -                     --
Others                                       123      134       133        57         54           54       52         49         47         44         42         39         37         35        33          31          29
Total Long-term Debt                   123       134       133        57         54           54       52         49         47         44         42         39        37         35         33         31          29
NET WORTH
Company Equity - Capital                        52        68      101       173        173          173      173        173        173        173        173        173        173        173        173        173         173
Retained Earnings                             (114)    (134)    (137)    (115)         (96)         (96)     (84)       (71)       (57)       (38)       (24)       (15)        (3)         9         21         34          46
Total Net Worth                        (62)      (66)      (36)       58         77           77       89        102        116        135       149         158       170        182        194        207         219
Total Net Worth plus
Liabilities                           61        68        97      115        131          131       141        151        163        179       191        197        207        217        227        238         248
June 30, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Chemelil Sugar Company Limited
Pro-forma Funds Statement with Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11
(1979)
Income Before Taxes             19       20       21       26      29       29       34       34       35      35        35
Depreciation                    10       12       14       16      18       19       19       19       19      19        19
Source from Operations        29       32       35      42       47       48       53      53       54       54        54
Plant Investment                 4       14        6        9       4       --        4       13        2        6         4
Net Trading Assets               (2)     18       19       17      18       17       14       13       14      15        15
Dividends                        7        7        7        7       7        7        7        7        7        6         7
Taxes                           --       --       --      --        8       13       15       15       16      16        16
Major Uses                     9       39       32      33       37       37       40       48       39      43        42
Cash Flow Before Financing    20         (7)       3       9       10       11       13        5      15       11        12
Financing                        (3)     (3)      (3)      (3)     (3)      (2)      (2)      (2)      (2)     (2)       (2)
Cash Flow Surplus/(Deficit)   17        (10)       -        6       7        9       11        3      13        9        10
Cumulative Cash Flow
Surplus/(Deficit)             17        7        7      13       20       29      40       43       56       65        75
June 30, 1978
(bX4
LAI



- 185 -
KENYA                                        ANNEX 15
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT                               Table 8
Chemelil SuKar COmDany Limited
Financial Rate of Return    1/
(KShs. Millions)
Capital Costs                                       Recurrent
Year             Initial           Replacement                            3/   Variable4/   Non-Variable 5/    Net
Investment 2/  Of Capital Items       Total       Revenue-       Costs            Costs    -   Benefit
1                 4                   -               4                           -             - 4
2                14                   -              14            -              -              1              (2)
3                 6                                   6            -              _              1              (1)
4                 9                                   9 g         16               8             2               6
5                 4                                   4           28             15             4                9
6                 _-                                  -           32             17             4               11
7                 1                  3                4           43             23             4               16
8                 _                  13              13           43             23             4   -           16
9                 _                   2               2           43             23             4               16
10                 _                   6               6           44             24             4               16
11                 -                  4                4           44             24             4               16
12                                     -               -           44             24             4               16
13                 -                   5               5           44             24             4               16
14                 _                 13               13           44             24             4               16
15                 -                   3               3           44             24             4               16
16                 _                  6                6           44             24             4               16
17                 -                  4                4           44             24             4               16
18                                     -               -           44             24             4               16
19                 -                  4                4           44             24             4               16
20                 -                  13              13           44             24              4              16
21                 -                   2               2           44             24             4               16
22                 -                   6               6           44             24             4               16
23                 -                   5               5           44              24            4               16
24                 -                   -               -           44              24            4               16
25                 -                  4                4           44             24             4               16
Financial Rate of Return
Basic                                     23%
Sugar Price Minus 5%                      18%
Sugar Price Minus 107                     13Z
Sugar Price Minus 15%                      7%
107. Increase in Variable Costs           177.
10% Increase in Non-Variable Costs        22%
10% Increase in Capital Costs             207.
One Year Delay                            17%
1/ All costs and revenues expressed in constant 1978 prices.
2/ Includes investments in agriculture, irrigation, factory entrance road, company administration,
housing and social amenities.
3/ Proceeds from the sale of sugar at RShs. 2,800/t and net revenue from molasses.
4/  Expenses directly related to agricultural and factory operations and cane purchase from auto powers.
5/ Salaries of permanent staff and other recurrent costs.
June 20, 1978



- 186 -
ANNEX 15
Table 9 A
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
East Africa Sugar Industries Limited - Muhoroni
Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
(KShs. Million)
1973    1974    1975    1976    19771/  1978 2,
Sales                                   37      37       50       62      67       67
Variable Costs                          20      22       32       33      38       38
Gross Income                        17       15       18       29      29       29
Fixed Expenses                           9      10       13       18      19       19
Operating Income                     8        5        5      11       10       10
Interest-                                5       5        8        4       3        3
Income Before Taxes                  3       --       (3)      7        7        7
Income Taxes                                --           --        --      3        3
Net Income                            3      --       (3)       7       4        4
Non-Recurring Items                     --         _    --        --      --        4
Addition to Retained Earnings            3      --       (3)       7        4      --
Retained Earnings                    4        4        1       8       12      12
I/ Estimated.
2/ Projected.
3/ Includes foreign exchange losses for 1973 through 1976.
June 1, 1978



- 187 -
ANNEX 15
Table 9 B
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
East Africa Sugar Industries Limited - Muhoroni
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
Without Project
(KShs. Million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Sales                                  73      73       73      73       73      73
Variable Costs                         39      37       35      35       35      35
Gross Income                        34      36       38      38       38      38
Fixed Expenses                         23      24       24      24       24      24
Operating Income                    11      12       14      14       14      14
Interest                                3       2        2       1        1       1
Income Before Taxes                  8      10      12       13      13       13
Income Taxes                            4       4        6       6        6       6
Net Income-                          4       6        6       7        7       7
Dividends                              --      --       --      --        6       7
Addition to Retained Earnings           4       6        6       7        1      --
Retained Earnings                   16      22       28      35      36       36
June 1, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
East Africa  Sugar Industries Limited - Muhoroni
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
With Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11
(1979)
Sales                        73      73       73      113     140      150      178     178      178      178       178
Variable Costs               40      37       36       55      68       73       86       86      86       86        86
Gross Income               33      36       37       58      72       77       92      92       92       92        92
Fixed Expenses               23      26       27       32      34       35       37       37      37       37        37
Operating Income           10      10       10       26      38       42       55      55       55       55        55
Interest                      3       6        9       11      12       11       10        9       8        7         6
Income Before Taxes         7       4        1      15       26       31      45       46       47       48        49
Income Taxes                  3       2       --        7      12       15       20      21       22       21        23
Net Income                  4       2        1        8      14       16       25      25       25       27        26
Dividends                    --      --       --       --       6        6        6        6       6        6         6
Addition to Retained
Earnings                    4       2        1        8       8       10       19      19       19       21        20
Retained Earnings         16       18       19      27       35       45       64      83      102      123       143
June 30, 1978
vi



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
East African Sugar Industries Limited - Mubhoroni
-Balance Sbeet
at Gecember S
(KSha. Million)
with project
1973       1974       1975       1976       1977           1978        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Yer 1.
Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual   Estimated          Forecast       (1979)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets                                     67         67          72         89         95             95          111        143        168         194        202        204         220        236         243        254         261
Less Depreciation                              20         23          26         30         34             34           40         47         57          69         83         96         110        124        138         151         165
Construction in Progress                         22         24          23          9          9              9            8          6           4          3          2           2          2          2           2          2            2
Subtotal                                 69          68         69         68         70             70           79        102        115         128        121         110        112        114         107        105           98
Current Assets
Nucleus Estate Plantation                      --         --         --          --         --             --            1          5         10          13         15         16          15         14          14         13           13
Accounts Receivable - Outgrowers               --         --         -           __         __             __            4         15         29          38         47          48         46         43          40         37           34
Accounts Receivable - Others/Prepayments   4               3           2          3          3              3            3          3           3          3          3           3          3          3           3          3            3
Other Inventories                               6          7           9         17         17             17           17         17         17          17         17         17          17         17          17         17          17
Cash and Bank Balance                          --         --         --          --          4              4            1         __          1           1          7         14          31         43          65         86         110
Cash Surplus Adjustment                        --         --         -           --         -                            3          6          9          12         12         12          12         12          12         12          12
Subtotal                                 10          10         11         20         24             24           29         46          69         84        101         110        124        132         151        168          189
Less Current Liabilities
Income Tax Payable                             __         __          _         __           3              3            3          2          1           8         12         14          20         21          21         21          22
Short-term Loans                                6          6          5           5          6              6            5          5          5           4          5         --          --         --         _-          --
Accounts Payable                                5          9         12          10          9              9            9          9          9           9          9           9          9          9           9          9            9
Subtotal                                 11          15         17         15         '18            18           17         16          15         21         26          23         29          30         30         30           31
Net Working Capital                              (1)         (5)        (6)         5          6              6           12         30          54         63         75          87         95        102         121        138          158
Net Assets                               68          63         63         73         76             76           91        132         169        191        196         197        207         216        228        243          256
LIABILITIES
Long-term Debt
Rehabilitation Loans                           __         __         __          __         __                          15         55         90        101         101         95          88         81          74         68           61
Others                                         39         35         34          37         36             36           30         21         14          11          8           5          3         --          __         __           _
Total Long-term  Debt                     39         35         34         37         36             36           45          76       104         112        109         100         91          81         74          68          61
NET WORTH
Company Equity - Capital                         23         23         23          23         23             23           30         38         46          52         52          52         52         52          52         52           52
- Share Premium Account           2          2          2          2           2             2           --         __          _          __         __          __
- Reserves                        3          3          3          3           3             3           -           -          -                      ---                                --                     --
Subtotal                                 28          28         28         28          28            28           30         38          46         52         52          52         52          52         52          52          52
Retained Esrnings                                 4           4          1          8         12             12           16         18          19         27          35         45         64          83        102        123          143
Anticipated Losses from Revaluation
of Foreign Exchange                            (3)        (4)         --         --         -              -            --         --         _-          --         __          _          __                     _          __
Total Net Worth                          29          28         29         36          40            40           46          56         65         79          87         97        116         135        154         175         195
Total Net Worth plus
Liabilities                            68         63          63         73         76             76           91        132        169         191        196         197        207         216        228         243         256
June 30, 1978
oIll



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
East Africa Sugar Industries Limited - Muhoroni
Pro-forma Funds Statement with Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10 Year 11
(1979)
Income Before Taxes               7        4        1      15       26       31       45       46       47       48         49
Depreciation                      5        6        7        8       8        8        8        8         8        8         8
Source from Operations        12       10        8       23       34       39       53       54       55       56        57
Plant Investment                 15       30      24       25         6        3      15       16         8       11         6
Net Trading Assets                6       15       16        2       19      31       38       33        48       45        53
Dividends                        --      --       --       --         6       6        6        6         6        6         6
Taxes                             3        2      --        7       12       15       20       21       22       21         23
Major Uses                     24      47       40       34       43       55       79       76       84       83         88
Cash Flow Before Financing   (12)    (37)         (32)    (11)       9       16       26       22       29       27         31
Rehabilitation Loan              15      40       35       11       --       (6)      (7)      (7)       (7)      (6)       (7)
Other Loans                      (6)      (9)      (7)     (3)      (3)      (3)       (2)      (3)     --       --         --
Equity                            2        8       8        6       --       --       --       --       --       --         --
Total Financing               11       39       36       14       (3)      (9)      (9)    (10)       (7)      (6)        (7)
Cash Flow Surplus/(Deficit)   --           2        4      3         6        7       17       12       22        21        24
Cumulative Cash Flow
Surplus/(Deficit)             --        2        6       9        15       22       39       51       73       94       118
November 8, 1978
HU



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
East African Sugar Industries LimitedM Muhoroni
Financial Rate of Return I/
(KBSh. Million)
Capital Costs                                                    Recurrent Costs
Initial             Replacement                                            Variable        Non-Variable          Net
Year                            Investment 2/        of Capital Items        Total           Revenue 3/        Costs 4/          Costs 5/          Benefit
1                                    15                                       15                 _               _                 _                 -
2                                    30                      -                30                 -               -                 1                (1)
3                                    24                      _                24                 -               -                 2                (2)
4                                    25                        -              25                40              20                 6                14
5                                     6                      _                 6                67              33                 8                26
6                                     3                      _                 3                77              37                 9                31
7                                     1                     14                15               105              51                 9                45
8                                     _                     16                16               105              52                 9                44
9                                     -                      8                 8               105              52                 9                44
10                                     _                     11                11               105              51                 9                45
11                                     _                      6                 6               105              51                 9                45
12                                     _                      5                 5               105              51                 9                45
13                                     _                     16                16               105              51                 9                45
14                                     _                     16                16               105              51                 9                45
15                                     _                      8                 8               105             .51                 9                45
16                                     -                     11                11               105              51                 9                45 
17                                                            6                 6               105              51                 9                45
18                                                            s                 5               105              51                 9                45
19                                     _                     16                16               105              51                 9                45
20                                     _                     16                16               105              51                 9                45
21                                     _                      8                 8               105              51                 9                45
22                                                           12                 12              105              51                 9                45
23                                     _                      7                 7               105              51                 9                 45
24                                     _                      5                 5               105              51                 9                 45
25                                     _                     16                16               105              51                 9                 45
Financial Rate of Return
.Basic                                     24%
Sugar Price Minus 5%                       21%
Sugar Price Minus 10%                      17%
10% Increase in Variable Costs            21%
10% Increase in Capital Costs             272%
One Year Delay                             19%
__ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _  ____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____                                                                                     H  H
k.,
1/ All costs and revenues expressed in constant 1978 prices.
2/ Includes investments in agricultura, irrigation, factory entrance roads, company administration,
housing and social amenities.
3/  Proceeds from the sale of sugar at KSh. 2,800/t and net revenue from molasses.
4/  Expenses directly related tco agricltural-and factory operations and cane purchase from outgrowers.
5/ Salaries of permanent staff and other recurrent costs.
June 20, 1978



- 192 -
ANNEX 15
Table 13 A
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Associated Sugar Company Limited - Ramisi
Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
(KShs. Million)
1973    1974    1975    1976    197721  197 Y
Sales                                   14       15      14       14       23       23
Variable Costs                          10       11       10      11       17       17
Gross Income                          4       4        4        3        6        6
Fixed Expenses                           5        5        5       6        7        7
Operating Income                     (1)      (1)     (1)      (3)      (1)      (1)
Interest                                 1       --      --       --       --       --
Income Before Taxes                  (2)      (1)     (1)      (3)      (1)      (1)
Income Taxes                         ___--               -- __    --       --_--
Net Income                           (2)      (1)     (1)      (3)      (1)      (1)
Retained Earnings                    (7)      (8)     (9)    (12)    (13)    (14)
1/ Estimated.
2/ Projected.
June 1, 1978



-  193                       ANNEX 15
Table 13 B
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Associated Sugar Company Limited - Ramisi
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
Without Project
(KShs. Million)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Sales                                  25      25       25      25       25      25
Variable Costs                         18      18       17      17       17      17
Gross Income                         7       7        8       8        8       8
Fixed Expenses                          8       8        8       8        8       8
Operating Income                    (1)     (1)     --       --      --       --
Interest                                1       1       --       1       --      --
Income Before Taxes                 (2)     (2)      _       (1)     __       _
Income Taxes                           --      --      ---__               ______
Net Income                          (2)     (2)      --      (1)      --      --
Retained Earnings                  (16)    (18)    (18)    (19)    (19)    (19)
June 1, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Associated Sugar Company Limited - Ramisi
Pro-forma Profit and Loss Statement for the Years
ended December 31
With Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Year 9 Year 10 Year 11
(1979)
Sales                        25       25      36       49       66       72       87      86       92      102       105
Variable Costs               18       18      19       27       34       37       44      43       47       52        54
Gross Income                7        7      17       22       32       35      43       43       45       50        51
Fixed Expenses                9       12      14       17       18       19       19      19       19       19        19
Operating Income           (2)      (5)      3        5       14       16      24       24       26       31        32          1
Interest                      1        3       9       14       18       18       19      19       18       16        15
Income Before Taxes        (3)      (8)     (6)      (9)      (4)      (2)       5       5        8       15        17
Income Taxes                 --      --       --       --       --       --               --       --                  2
Net Income                 (3)      (8)      (6)     (9)      (4)      (2)       5       5        8       15        15
Retained Earnings         (17)    (25)    (31)    (40)    (44)    (46)    (41)    (36)    (28)    (13)               2
June 30, 1978
II
0lt



KENYA
SUGAR REHALILITATIOIT PROJECT
Associated Sugar CompanY Li=ited - ReMisi
Balance Sheet
At December 31
(KShs. Million)
With Project
1973       1974        1975        1976         1977            1978        Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10   Year 11
Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    Estimated              Forecast      (1979)
ASSETS
Fixed As.ets/Intangible Assets                     27          28          28          29           29              29         34          64         111         147         169         177         184         195         205         211         218
L.aa  Dep-cir tl.o                               12          14          15          17           19             19          20          22          26          32          38          45          51          58          65          81          93
Construction in Progress                            4           6           7           7            7              7            7          7           7           7            1           1           1           1           1           1           1
Subtotal                                   19          20          20          19           17             17          21          49          92         122         132         133         134         138         141         131         126
Current Assets
Nucleus Estate Plantation                         2           2           2           2            2              2           6          11          19          26          28          29          26          24          21          22          19
Accounts Receivable-Outgrovers                   --          --          --          --           --             --          --           6           9          12          14          16          15          15          13          11           8
Accouats Receivable-Others/Prepay.ents            4           1           1           2            2              2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2
Other Inventries                                  3           4           4           4            4              4           4           3           4           4           4           4
Cash and Bank Balance                            --          --           2         --            --             --          --          --          --          --          --          --            7          9           4          15          27
Subtotal                                    9           7           9           8            8              8          12          22          34          44          48          51          54          54          44          54          60
Le.s Current Liabilities
Short-ter    LoasS                                4           4           4           4            4              4           4
Accounts Payable/Accrued Charges                  2           1           3           3            2              2            2          2           2            2           2           2           2           2           2           2           2
Subtotal                                    6           5           7           7            6       -      6            6           6          6            6           6           6           6           6           6           6           6
Net  orking Capital                                  3          2           2           1            2               2           6          16          28          38          42          45          48          48          38          48          54
Net Assets                                 22          22          22          20           19             19           27          65        120         160         174         178         182         186         179         179          180
LIABILITIES
Long-tern Debt
Rehabilitation Loann                                   --          --                --           --             --            7         48         107         154         169 -       176         176         176         162         146         132
New Loans (Before Project
Implementation)                                --         --          --          --            1               1           3           4           4           3           2           2           1           -           -          -_          -
Pacnt Company                                    14          17          18          17           18             18           --         --          --           --          --          --          --          --          --          --          --
Othets                                                       3                                    4               4            3          3            2           1           1         --          --                                      
Total LonE-ter-  Debt                      19          20          21          22           23             23           13          55        113          158         172         178         177         176        162          146         132
D.,  WORTH
C=lpany Equity - Capital                             8          8           8           8            8               8          31          35          38          42          46          46          46          46          46          46          46
i-SRes-r  -                         2           2           2           2            2              2           -            --                      --                      --                      --                      --
Fetained Earngs                                    (7)         (8)        (          (12)                        (14)          (17)        (25)        (31)        (40)        (44)        (46)       (42         (36)         (29)        (13)           2
Total Net Worth                             3           2           1          (2)          (4)             (4)         14          10           7           2           2          --           5          10          17          33          48
Total Net W-rth plus
Liabilities                              22          22          22         20            19             19           27         65         120         160         174         178         182          186         179         179         180
June 30, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Associated Sugar Company Limited - Ramisi
Pro-forma Funds Statement with Project
(KShs. Million)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11
(1979)
Income Before Taxes              (3)      (8)      (6)     (9)      (4)      (2)       5        5        8       15        17
Depreciation                      2        2        4       6        6        7        7        7        7        7         7
Source from Operations         (1)     (6)      (2)      (3)       2        5       12       12       15       22        24
Plant Investment                  5       30      47       36       16        8        7       11       10        6         6
Net Trading Assets               25       9       18       10        5        2       (3)      (1)      (6)    (10)       (10)
Taxes                            --      --       --       --       --       --       --       --       --       --         2
Major Uses                     30      39       65       46       21       10        4       10        4       (4)       (2)
Cash Flow Before Financing   (31)    (45)        (67)    (49)    (19)        (5)       8        2       11       26        26
Rehabilitation Loan               7      41       66       47       15        7       --       --      (15)    (15)       (14)
New Loans                         2        1      --        (1)     --       (1)      (1)      --       (1)      --        --
Parent Company Loan              (1)     --        (1)     (1)      --       (1)      --       --       __       __        __
Equity                           23       4        3        4        4       --       --                --      --        --
Financing                     31       46       68       49       19        5       (1)      --      (16)    (15)       (14)
Cash Flow Surplus/(Deficit)   --          (1)      1       --       --       --.       7        2       (5)      11        12
Cumulative Cash Flow
Surplus/ (Deficit)            __       (1)      --       --       --       --        7        9        4      15        27
June 30, 1978
I1 1
m X
In 1n



KENYA
SUGAR REHAVILITATION PROJECT
Associated Sugar Company Limited - Ramisi
Financial Rate of Return  1/
(KShs. Million)       -
Capital Costs                                            Recurrent Costs
Year            Initial            Replacement                                 Variable      Non-Variabls         Net
Investmenta'   Of Capital Items       Total       Revenue3/    Costs  4           Costs         Benefit
1                  5                  -               5             -            _                _-_
2                 30                   -              30            -            -                1             (1)
3                 47                  -              47           11             3                3              5
4                 36                   -              36           24           10                4             10
5                 16                  -               16          41           18                 5             18
6                  8                   -               8          47            20                5             22
7                  1                  6                7          62           27                 5             30
8                  -                 ll               11          61            27                5             29
9                  -                 10               10          67           30                 5             32
10                  -                  6                6           77           35                5             37
11                  -                  6                6          80            37                5             38
12                  -                  6                6           76           35                5             36
13                  -                   7               7           67           30                5             32
14                  -                 11               11          67            30                5             32
15                  -                  10              10           77           35                5             37
16                  -                  6                6          80            37                5             38
17                  -                  6                6           76           35                5             36
18                  -                  6                6           67           30                5             32
19                  -                   7               7           67           30                5             32
20                  -                  Il              11           77           35                5             37
21                  -                  10              10           80           37                5             38
22                  -                  20              20           76           35                5             36
23                  -                   6               6           67           30                5             32
24                  -                   6               6           67           30                5             32
25                  -                   7               7           77           35                5              37
Financial Rate of Return
Basic                                 16
Sugar Price Minus 5%                  13
Sugar Price Minus 10%                 10
10% Increase in Variable Costs        13
10% Increase in Capital Costs         14
One Year Delay in Output              13
1/ All costs and revenues expressed in contant 1978 prices.
2/ Includes investments in agriculture, irrigation, factory entrance road, company administration,
housing and social amenities.
3/  Proceeds from the sale of sugar at KShs. 2,800/t and net revenue from molasses.
4/ Expenses directly related to agricultural and factory operations and cane purchase from outgrovers.
5/ Salaries of permanent staff and other recurrent costs.
June 20, 1978
o H






HoR-i.- -    -ere-rr  Rod-e  for Ro rr.per- arr
r-,1I           Yrar 2           eer2           Ye-r4           Y-er            Ve-rh           Year)            Yeer            fore1
CANEO CUL5TIVATION SCHEDULE
?Iar -  oo .-(140) (ha)                                                                                                           1               -                            .2               is-5 
lt  -e..o. (12or  (ha)                                                                                                            -               I                                             375.          .625 
2id Reroa  (12ao  (he)                                                                                                                                             I                              -            .375            .25--
"In ro   H                                                                                                                                 53               -              -350--                                                                          1p6
Oa  en(H)I                                                                                                                                  -              1,5             --                            12               28              -                 90
lEd RCHS()-                                                                                                                                       --39                                            -                             .39                               7
RcA 153                                                           -          ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~        ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~7,049  5,985  5,1(7  4,389  4,921  3,724  5,187     36,442
B.  i0088D1ITURE  _1/                                                           Workprarer
he Err    oom                       Cae   e
Lead Cl-eino 2/                          Egoirm-n  riolerd                  Root    per hR         Unit          CoR
Lend Ereerolor 3/
Ripp1.R  (ir)                120/160 Op C-oole  R rH                 0.44        4.6        aoer          154.86            712             -443                                           267                                                             1    ,424
Ploaghleg                    90/120 Se 4-WReel Drive                 0.6         2.1        lIHRr          M12.5            350             -                               219            1301                                                              700
ftrrr  i   dEer pl-ogO
erro-iog                     80/120 ISP 4-WShHl  rioe                0.48        2.1        floS          126.85            266                                             166ER           100            -                                                  32
-roo-rr,elh re  rhro-
eoomrortng            (~~~0/98 HOP 4-Wheel a-y-               5.84        0.6       iHa-            88.57           1401                                              88             55             -                                                 1 82
Troeer hr ridging  edire
Oporo   c..             120/080 HSP CeirTer                     0.52       1.9         Hoor          158.68           301              -                                80            103                                                               6  02
Sehootol                                                                                                          1,770             -.                            1,R8R             684            ---3,540
-.aore  rr -n,o   3)                                                                     he.           8  16080i                                                        I   0           60-                                                             320
Seed  .r.oeper  3/                                                                            he            82               67                                               61 h           36            -                                 -04
rleae  Hlantir8 2/                                                   20 onneR                               -                 -                               -               -.-                                            .-
G.ppiesg 2/                                                           5  edy/o------.-
Sed Coe9 13                                                                                                                 913                                              L  51          342            -                                 -1.26
rohierei                                                                             0~~~~       ~     ~        ~        ~       ~      ~~~~           ~~~~           ~        ~        ~       ~      ~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~,170  7  32  438  ---2,540
Field neoeei
Wee.din  2/                                                          05 mndr
Snbnoilieg (Her ret--) 31    90/120 lUP 4-Vdherl
EtHer Troiror           8~~~~.40    0 .5       nor            127 .70           -              319             319               -              20            305             199                             1 .276
SohioRel                                                                             -             ~~~~            ~~~~~                    ~      ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~                                 ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~319  319  I 120  319  199    0, 276
Snlrln-  oH Aneisol  3/              55888           350 hg                                    he          440               441             41              441              074            330            441             274                             2,844
TripRr SoHrpb-pheReh 3/              250 kg                                                    Ro          450               430              --                              249            0401                    -                        -860
Plon Crop                                                        2 o.rdop.,---                                                                                                             
C-p                                          -.dy.~~~~~~~~mnr/he
r_np-r-eion                                                                                    he..                                                                                                                                                              7
Rooterel                                                                                6~~      ~     ~~~~            ~~~~             ~~~~           ~~~~           ~~~~            ~~~       ~       ~      ~     ~~~~~~72  442  442  544  462  442  277  -  3, 513
C-tiRg 5/                                                            1.5 r tret                                              -               408              347             308            254            281             216              310            0.110
Treah 2/                                                            10 meedep
RobHotel.                                                                           -              ~~~~             ~~~~            ~~~~           ~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.8  547  388  254  2R5  204  388  2,110
C-o  frnprrro                 65 R/90 HE Tr-ra  end 8-tre            3.7H  prr hror                          23.0             -,224                        1,040              981            742            855             644              901            6.330
L2rHtadroR  3/             Tire.-la    o-drr, 4-WRrOO               230 p-  leer                           3 . 3                           1)5             149             109            009            022               92              129              905
SOrpp-tEqeipo-t 3/                                                                                            3.3                             1705            149            0-29            109            022               92             128               985
Onhrrte1                                                                                                              -            1,574            1.338           1,156            680          1,099              850           1,159            8.140
0-rheed Che-ree 4/                                                                                                  4.5          2..f9             203~ 57                        .42           ..7.~             126              106              -11236
TonE  W-er  Inorr-e                                                                                                        4,030          2,046           282             392             3,015          2.271           1,499            1,456           22,1155
t.-w    Me-&,                                                                                     520              165             157           ~~~      ~     ~~~~      ~      ~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~233  2-14  1023  2053  ,.532
Tair tr  l ReP-de   --                                                                                                        4,051           3.466           2,787           4,145          3,340           2,475           1,882            1,412           25.686
C.  1Ff ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl)~~~~~~~~~J7                                                        )~~~~~~~~4,051)  5,503           3.008           1,042          1.040          2.446            1,922           5,500            12,756
I/  ePreened iirierJ-or,  191  pHi-r  (-rridiag  phyalei-1                        roRtr)
2/  Perrend porrl   ithl Her  feily Ib-r; re-h reodit-re  he-e ref bre ..eererd for  -porpoe     of for relyeir.
3/ Performd 00  -opriRd Ry oh, Coz-e.y or  -rdir.
4/ C-,reys'  ev-h-od r-lerd  o  -ngr--er,  -e -ord et Oh- 410 per He  efHer
5/ Coie-1-d or  h.i  eel of 11% (otr-- per peer.  qhr -ate of 1re.  prrp.rtio-  rd plrRitegir - nreee  to he iaotE021n   14 .. trohn, field mairrteao-                                   obohlr   -.nth,,
PrtOIli-e  9  -tlho,  rod  .r.o.n.Ho ...r 52%; hep...i ot d trorpart eerte  -2  reoodod.
0000:  Th.n oigbt-Ye-  porirO  010   -0 thir tbohi  ort0R2Y ro-er  too hI'- teEhI  -e-  orreg iloole   t-rrl                  i. thr Crorrof thr Torit .rh-dEr y.RE ad  -odin  ir thr r-r-  of
tIe oigthtlo
nop 24. 1982



I



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ramisi - Outgrowers Cash Position perHectare of Sugarcane
(Ksh)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8             Total
CASH INELOW
Sale of sugar cap                      -        7,049      5,985     5,187      4,389      4,921      3,724      5,187       36,442
Company's credit-                    4,051      2,946      2.622     3,992      3,115      2,271      1,699      1,459       22,155
Subtotal                          4,051      9,995     8,607      9,179      7,504      7,192      5,423      6,646       58,597
CASH OUTFLOW                                                                                                                                 '
Repayment of Company's credit          -        6,033      2,649      2,396     3,767      3,265      1,934      2,111       22,155
Interest payments                      -          520        165        153       233        204        103        153        1,531
Production expenditures              4,051      2.946      2,622     3.992      3.115      2,271      1,699      1.459       22,155
Subtotal                          4,051      9,499     5,436      6,541      7,115      5,740      3,736      3,723       45,841
Net cash position                      -          496      3,171      2,638        389     1,452      1,687      2,923       12,756
Cumulative net cash position           -          496      3,667     6,305      6,694      8,146      9,833    12,756            -
1/ Sales Proceeds from cane at Ksh 133/ton.
2/  From prQcedai7ng table, assuming 100% financing from company, family labor not costed.
3/  Includes full production costs at partial harvest, excludes cost of production associated with
following crop incurred on credit..
4/  At 11% from prQceddPig table.                                                                                                      DXX
May 25, 1978



mu~~~~~~~i-
!liYA
108 RUiR! CI PROJECT
Ahsro - Outgrowm's a4dwt (7er Hfoters)
Year 1    Your 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Tatel
Cane Cultivation Schedule
Plwat Care (16 mO.) (ha)                                                                                                        1.0
1.0 Ratoan (14 IO.) (ha)                                                                                                                  0.75      0.25
2nd Rateen (i4 no.) (ha)             ,                                                                                                              0.50      8 50
3rd RPtron (14 ma.) (ha)                                                                                                                                      0.25      0.75
H-r-.tin  S hedUl
Plnt Cro,c It )~ 120-- _                                                                                                                           30                                     120
Ist Ratron  (t)  100                                                                                                                               50        50                           100
2nd Putran  (t)  80                                                                                                                                          20        6o                  80
3rd RaOtrn  (t)  75                                                                                                                                                              75        75
A. Or.s. Re-ene   (Kth 133/ton)                                                                                   C1st P1 11,970    10,640                  9,310     7,980     9,975    49,875
B   tcEpnditures %/                          Equipmet Utilized             Heetare       Hours Per       Uot       Unit
PFr Hour       NeetAre                 (lIh )
Lond Clearing i/
Lard P-pparation
ip,oing                         160/180 hP Crawler Trantor
nith Ripper                           0. 48         4,2          Hor.    182. 58        767                                                         767
Pleuhing                        160/180 HP Crusler Tratter
.ith Rosse Plough                     o.36          2.8          Hours    186.41        522                                                         522
Harraoing                       90/120 HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor
with   s Ha-ny                        o048          2.1          Hoars    126.85        266                                                         266
PNrro-ig                       60/90 hP 4-Wheel Dridr Tractor
with Ridgig4 Bodies                   o.64          i.6          Hours      88.37       14i                                                         141
llprooting Care SteLts          120/160 HP Crawler Tractor
tith Rome Pil,gh                      0.52          1.9          Hours    158.68        301                                                         301
Subtotal                                                                                                        1,997                                                        1,997
Plartiog OoeratiOna
Cheoi-ol Treatesnt 3/                                                                             ha        16S           16o                                                         160
Send Trsrnprt                                                                                     h h         97           97
MNusal 1'3sting  J                                                 20 MAndayfi/ha
Gq7ping 2                                                           5 MArda3s/hu
Send CToe  /                                                                                      ha         998          99B                                                         998
Sabtotl                                                                                                          1,255                                                       1,255
Field MPiutar-ce
W;eeding 2                                                         15 MHadapa
per Wesedirg
Suboiling (far Ratoso.) 2/      120/160 HP Crawler Tractor
tith Rippor                           o.44          4.6          Noura    154.86                  5         5*        534       534               2.136
Sobtatal                                                                                     5~~~~~~~            ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34  5334  4  34  2,136
Fertilioern
Sulphate  f Anoania 2                                                                              ha    316.25/442.75   316        332       332       332       332               1,644
Tripie Sopsrphanphatn 2/                                                                          ha        429           429                                                         429
Appli-cti.. |/
fLart Crap                                                       2 McndDys
twoas/ba
Rat on Crops                                                     2 Mardayo/ha
Traneportotion V/                                                                                 ha          1.1           1        1          1         1         1
Subtotal                                                                                                           74d       333       333       333       333               2,078
IrrTgntio  Watr Charge 4/
HSarestiso
Cutting |                                                          1.5t Cans per
T-arday                      t           7.7                  693       618       539       462       578     2,890
Tralb hokiog |a 15 Huodaya/ha
obtatal                                                                                                                      693       618       539       462       578     2,890
CasCrrprt  2/
Care Trmnnportatian             65/90 HP Tr-atar vith 8-ton
tril1r                           3.7t/bour                      t          23.1                2,079     1,848     1,617     1,386     1,733     8,663
Cars aoadibg                    Fle  Born l ader                  23t/b-ur                        t           3.3                  297       264       231       198       248     1,238
-Support Equipasot                                                                                t            3.3                  297       264       231       148       248    1.238
2ubtotcl                                                                                                                 2,673     2,376     2,079     1,782     2,229    11,139
Overhead Chaste. 2/                                                                                 t          -4.5        405       360       315       270       338        --    1.6a8
T.t.1 Ref- Int.st                                                                                                4.403     4,393     4,176     3,755     3,449     2,807    23,183
Interent Charges  /                                                                                                         --       570       370       257       231       296      1,724
Totol Flpendituren                                                                                               4,403     5,163     4,546     4,012     3,680     3,103    24,907
C. Net Re.eu-s(4,403)    68,07    6,094                                                                                                                     5,299     4,300     8,872    24,968
ConLanIves                                                                                                             (4,403)    2,404    9,498     13 796    18,096    24,968       -
1/ Espressed in -onatart T.auary 1978 prices (includirg phyahcl cantingeocies and dspreaiatiao)
M Mainly by fesily Lbor.
;/ Perfoand ar oppplied by Cpny  n  redit.
J  Hat ioncuded.
5/ Copy'  oretad related ta autgrors,  ettiated at Kh.. 4,3  per ton aane
H/ Harvestirg and trarspart anly; on interest charges.
/ Col-lated on bari of 11% interest per yr. The cast. af land preparation and picntiag are aao,aand
to he autatuoding 16 -.th., field auiatnanon - s-bsoilidg 04 -r2ths, fartillane  11 laathg  ard overhead 60%;
harvesting ad transpart coote are  oadluded.
NOTE: The sio-yer period  hohwn in this table acually -orers anly a 6L-noths ceas graving cyols starting in the
aaarsm af the first calendar year ad ending in the tour. af tPb  silth.
May 30, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ahero - Outgrowers Cash Position per Hectare of Sugarcane
(Ksh)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6            Total
CASH INFLOW
Sale of sugar cane"                            11,970    10,640      9,310      7,980      9,975       49,875
Company's credit2/                   4.403      4.593     4.176      3.755      3,449      2,807       23.183
Subtotal                           4,403    16,563    14,816    13,065    11,429    12,782           73,058
CASH OUTFLOW
Repayment of comp4y s credit3/         -        7,769      4,221     3,800      3,381      4,012       23,183
Interest payments-                     -          570        370        257       231        296        1,724          N
Production expenditures              4,403      4,593     4,176      3.755      3,449      2,807       23,183
Subtotal                           4,403    12,932      8,767      7,812      7,061      7,115       48,090
Net cash position5/                    -        3,631      6,049     5,253      4,368      5,667       24,968
Cumulative net cash position           -        3,631      9,680    14,983    18,301    24,968            -
1/ Sales proceeds from cane at Ksh 133/ton
2/  From proceeding table, assuming 100% financing from company, family labor not costed.
3/  Includes full production costs at partial harvest, excludes costs associated with
following crop again incurred on credit.                                                                      m X
4/  At 11% from proceeding table
5/ Excludes water charges (Table 24)
May 30, 1978



ANNEX 15
-  202  -                                                             Tabl  21
RKEN YA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani Outnrswers Budget for Sugarcane. per hectare
(Shs..)
Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6       Total
CANE CULTIVATION SCHEDULE
Plant Cane (24 so.) (he)                                                                                               1.0                    -
Ist Ratoon (18 oo.) (ha)                                                                                                                    1.0
2nd Ratoon (18 -o.) (ha)                                                                                                                             0.75    - 0.25
HARVESTING SCHEDULE
Plant Crop (t)                                                                                                                             71                                     71
1st Ratoon (t)                                                                                                                                      45        15                  60
2nd Ratoon (t)                                                                                                                                                        49         49
Price ne Ton
A. GRoSS REVENUE                                                         Ekns.  l3                                       -                9,443    5,985    1,995   6,517       23,940
Work Performance              Cost per
B. EXPENDITURES 1/                          Equip.ent Utilieed              Hectares  H-our  per     Unit     Unit
per Hour   Nentares               (X8ho.)
Land Clearing 2/
Land Preparation 3/
Ripping                            160/180 HP Crawler Tractor          0.48        4.2        tourn    182.58      767                                                          767
with tipper
Ploughing                          160/180 hP Crawler Tractor         0.36         2.8       Hours    186.41       522                                                         522
with heavy Roe plough
Narrowing                          90/120 HP 4-Wheel Drive             0.48        2.1        Hours    126.85      266                                                         266
Tractor with RHoe harrow
Furrowing                          60/90 HP 4-Wheel Drive Tractor    0.64          1.6       Nour9      88.37      141                                                         141
with ridging bodies
Uprooting Cane Stuks               120/160 HP Crawler Tractor         0.52         1.9       Hours    158.68       301                                                         301
with ROme plough
Subtotal                                                                                     1,997                                                        1,997
Planting Operations
Chenical Treat-ent 3/                                                                          ho      160         160                                                         160
Sied transport 3/                                                                              ha       97          97                                                          97
Mannual planting 2/                                                    20 mondays per ha
Gapping 2/                                                              5 mondays per ho
Seed cane 3/                                                                                  ha       998         998                                                         998
Sabtotal                                                                                     1,255                                                        1,255
Field Maintenance
Weeding 2/                                                             15 mandays per weeding
Solbooiling (for ratoons)          90/140 HP 4-Whoel Drive Tractor   0.40          2.5       Hours    127.70                            3 -  519  239      80        -         638
with ripper
Subtotal                                                                                        -                   319     239         80       -         638
Fortili.ers                          Oantity per Hectare
Plant Crop       Ratoons
Sclphate of Ammonia 3/             275 kg           275 kg                                    ho       347        347         -        347      260        87        -       1,041
Triple Superphnnphate 3/           250 kg                                                     ha       429        429         -                  -         _                   429
Application 2/
Plant Crop                                                           2 mondays twice per hectere
Ratoon Crops                                                          2 mondays per hectare
Transportation 3/                                                                             ha         1.1         1                     1     1         1       ,            4
Subtotal                                                                                       777        -         348     261        88        -       1,474
Harvesting
Cutting 3/                                                             2.6 t cane per m.nday  ton        4.4       -          -        312      198        66      216         792
Trash Raking 2/
s    Iotal                                                                                                -        312      198        66       216        792
Cane Transport 3/
Cane transportation                65/90 HP tractor and 8 t            3.7 t per hour          ten      23.1       -         -       1,640   1,040        346    1,132       4,158
capacity trailer, single sale
Cane loading                       Flex-Boom Looder                   23 t per hose            ton       3.3                           234      148        50      162         594
4-Wheel Drive hydrostatic with
front pile-
Support equipment                                                                             teo        3.3       -         -         234     148         50      162         594
Subtotal                                                                                       -         -       2,108   1,336        446    1,456       5,346
Ovenrhoad Charges 4/                                                                             ton       4.5      160        160       203      68        221       -          812
Total enpenditares before interest                                                                              4,189       060      3,290   2,102        901    1,672      12,314
Intorest Charges 6/                                                                                                  --        --        861     224         75      226       1,386
Total Expenditures                                                                                              4,189        160     4,151   2,326        976    1,898      13,700
C. NET REVENUE                                                                                                       (4,189)      (160)    5,292   3,659      1,019    4,619      10,240
C.colativn                                                                                                     (4,189)   (4,349)       943   4,602     5,621   10,240          -
1/ Enpressed in cons tout January 1978 prices (including physical contingencies and depreciation).
1/ Performed with fam fowily laebr; cash expenditures have not been asoswed for purposes of the analysis.
3/ Performnd, or supplied by, the Ceopany an credit.
4/ Company's overkhed relted to outgrownrs, estimated at kShs. 4.5 per ton of cone.
5/ Harvesting and transport only; no intrest chargs.t
6/ Calculated on bas,is of 11% interest pee year.  The costs of land Preparation and Plo.etind are annund to be .     dada  22 cathn,
field maintenance - cubsoiling 18  onths, fertilionr 15   nWths., and overhead 503; harvesting and transport cost. are excluded.
NOCE: The six-yeer period showc in this tCble *ctually covers otly a 63-mnths cane growing cycle starting in the caurse of the
firot calendar year and ending in the course of the sitth.
May 30, 1970



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Miwani - Outgrowers Cash Position per Hectare of Sugarcane
(Ksh)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6             Total
CASH INFLOW
Sale of sugar cane1/                   -          -       9,443      5,985      1,995      6,517        23,940
Company's credit2/                   4,189        160     3,290      2,102        901      1,672        12,314
Subtotal                           4,189        160    12,733      8,087      2,896      8,189        36,254
CASH OUTFLOW
Repayment of company's credit/         -          -       6,769      2,404      1,080      2,061        12,314
Interest payments4/                    -          -         861        224         75        226         1,386
Production expenditures              4,189        160     3,290      2,102        901      1,672        12,314                 0
Subtotal                           4,189        160    10,920      4,730      2,056      3,959        26,014
Net cash position                       -          -       1,813      3,357        840      4,230        10,240
Cumulative net cash position            -          -       1,813      5,170      6,010    10,240            -
2? Sales proceeds from cane at Ksh 133/ton
2/ From preceeding table, assuming 10070 financing from company, family labor not costed.
3/ Includes full production costs at partial harvest; excludes costs associated with following
crop again incurred on credit
4/  At 11% from preceeding table.
May 30, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ahero Irrigation Scheme
Cost Recovery Calculation j
Alternative Recovery Methods
Area         Revenue Based on          Area           Revenue Based on          Cane             Revenue Based on
Under Cane      Area Under Cane        Harvested          Area Harvested         Produced         Volume of Cane Produced
Year                                                             15-Year    20-Year                       15-Year    20-Year                         15-Year         20-Year
Costs J                                   Recovery   Recovery                      Recovery   Recovery                        Recovery        Recovery
Capital 3/   Recurrent  /  Total                           /          6                               /    __ 6/                                               6/
-- --------- (KShs.'OOO)----------          (ha)       ---(KShs.' )---             (ha)               (KShs.'000)---        (t' )          -      (KShs.'O)-----
1          --             - _           --           _--- _K                  _- _- _- _ _0                                                        --- _- _0007-
2          729            --            729           --          --          --            --             --          --             --              --               --
3          666             79           745          154           228         207          --             --          --             --              --               -
4          666            159           825          308           456         414         125              268         238           13               339              302
5        1,356            238         1,594          462           684         621         250              536         475           21)              625              558
6          666            317           983          616           912         829         375              805         713           33               860              767
7           --            397           397          770         1,140       1,036         501            1,075         952           42             1,094              976
8           --            397           397          770        .1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           48             1,251            1,116
9           --            397           397          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
10           --            397           397          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
11           --            397           397          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
12           364           397           761          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
13          332            397           729          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
14           332           397           729          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
15          677            397         1,074          770         1,140       1,036         619            1,328       1,177           49             1,277            1,139
16          332            397           729          770                     1,036         619                        1,177           49                              1,139
17          --             397           397          770                     1,036         619                        1,177           49                              1,139
18          --             397           397          770                     1,036         619                        1,177           49                              1,139
l9          --             397           397          770                     1,036         619                        1,177           49                              1,139
20           --            397           397          770                     1,036         619                         1,177          49                              1,139
Present Value at
11% Discount Rate
15-Year Recovery                              5,256                      5,256                                     5,256                                      5,256
20-Year Recovery                              5,666                                   5,666                                    5,666                                          5,666
Cost Recovery
Charge                                                              KShs. 1,481        1,345                  KSbs. 2,145       1,901                   KShs. 26.10            23.20
Per Hectare Under Cane                 Per Hectare Cane Harvested                    Per Ton of Cane Produced
All costs and revenues are expressed in constant (January) 1978 value terms.
J  Includes irrigation costs only.  Agricultural inputs and services would be provided by Miwani
sugar company on credit and the loan principal plus interest deducted from the payment on farmers'
cane delivered to the factory.
T Includes replacement costs on 50% of the initial investment.
For details see Annex 6.
2   Calculation is based on 100% recovery at l1l  interest over 15 years.
Calculation is based on 100% recovery at 11% interest over 20 years.
December 9, 1977



EKRNYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Calculation of Roads and Drainage Maintenance Levy 2
Nyanza Sugar Belt
Roads                               Drainage
RxpltrPht. r*^ts                                                   Total            Totd6l        Cost Per Ton of Sugar 7/
Capital     Existing    New       Total      Capital Recurrent    Total        Maintenance       Sugar        Roads  Drainage  Total
Year       Costs  /   Roads 3/ Roads  /   Roads           Costs     Costs    Drainage       Costs         Production
------------------------------------- (KShse'ooo) ---------------_---------_----_-__-__('OOOt)              ------ (KShs.)-------
1           488       8,616       --       9,104         608        --         608        9,712             96            95       6       101
2         1,797       8,616       --      10,413         608        --         608       11,021             96           108       6        114
3         1,797       8,616       735     11,148       1,092        165      1,257       12,405             98           114      13       127
4         1,797       8,616     1,504     11,917       1,092        330      1,422       13,339             129           92      11       103
5         1,797       8,616     1,838     12,251       1,092        495      1,587       13,838            149            82      11        93
6         1,797       8,616     2,185     12,598       1,092        660      1,752       14,350            157            80      11        91       1
7         1,797       8,616     2,185     12,598       1,092        825      1,917       14,515            177            71      11        82
8 Onwards     1,797       8,616     2,185     12,598       1,092        825      1,917       14,515             178           71      11        82
All costs include physical contingencies and are expressed in constant 1978 value terms.
Includes 90% of maintenance equipment costsa (ANINEX 11',,Table'29); replacement period is assumed at six years.
From ANNEX 8, Table 5, excluding nucleus estates roads.
From MANNEX 11, Table 30.
Maintenance equipment only; from AMNEX 11, Table4.)
Includes drain clearing only; excludes cost of infield operations.
Basis for determining levy for Roads and Drainage Mainetenance Fund (AINNEX 13).
July 20, 1977
S,



-   206   -                                       Tbe2
KENYA
SUGAP REHBLILITATION PROJECT
Cost Eligible
Total     for World Rank      World
Table      Cost        Financing          Rnck      ADB     Goverassent     KSA Levy      Miumni      Chemelil   RMUboroni       Ramiia
Irrigation - Capital
Aher-                               3          5.5           5.5             5.0       --          0.5            __           __          __            __           __
Kibos                               3         11.9          11.9            10.7       --          1.2                                     --
Chemelil                            3         11.2          --              --         --          --             --           --          11.2          --           --
Muhoroni                            3         u.8           11.8            lo.6       --          --             --           --          --             1.2         __
Ramisi                              3         17.9          17.9            16.1       --          --             --           --          --            --            1.8
Irrigation - Recurrent                 3          7.1           --             --         _           1.3            __           __            i.4          1.2          3.2
Drainage
Capital                             4         46.o          46              28.6       -          i7.4            --           --          --            __           __
Recurrent                           4         36.1          24              21.5       -          13.2            14           --          _-            __           __
Agriculture - Capital
TMi sni                             5        29.4           29.4            26.5       -_          --             __            2.9        _-            __           __
Chemelil                  -         6         25.1          --              __         __          __             __--                     25.1          --           __
Muhoromi                            7         49.1          49.1            44.2       --          --             --           --          --             4-9         --
Ramiai                              8         28.9          28.9            --        26.0         _-                          -.          _-            --            2.9
Agriculture - Non-Variable
Miuwni                              9         17.8           8.7 8/          7.8      -_           __             __           10.0         -     --                  --
Chemelil                           10          8.5          -_              __         __ --   --                              --           8.5          --           __
Muhoroni                           11         39.5          18.8 j/         16.9       --          --             --           --          --            22.6         -_
Ramiai                             12         28.5          14.4 I/         11.8       --                                                                --           16.7
Agriculture - Variable
Mivani                            13, 14      53.6          27.3 2          23.5       --          __             _            30.1        --            --           --
Chemelll                          i5, 16      44.6          --              --         --          _-             --           __          44.6          __           __
Muhoroni                          17, is      68.5          29.9 3/         21.7       --          --             --           --          _-            46.8         --
R.miai                            19, 20      71.7          56.2             o 5o.6    __--                                                              --           21.1
Sugar Factory - Capital
MiMani                              21        39.8           39.8           35.8      -_           __             __            L.0               --    __            __
Muhoroni                            22        22.3          22.3            20.1       --          --             --           --          --             2.2         --
RIamibi                             23       109.2         109.2            98.3       --          __             __           __          __            --           10.9
Sugar Factory - Recurrent
itnti                               24        11.9           --             --         -_          --             --           11.9        -_            -_           __
Chemelil                            25         7.6          --              __         __          __             __--                      7.6          -_           __
Muhoroni                            26        17.7           -_             __         __          __             __--                     --            17.7         --
Ra.iai                              27        15.2          --              --         __          7.2            -_           -      -                  --            8.o
General Management and
Administrati-n - Capital
Miwani                              28         0.5           0.5             0.5       -_          --             --           --          __            __          __
Nuhoroni                            28         0.5           0.5             0.5       --          --             --           --          -_            -_          __
R-misi                              28         0.5           0.5             0.5       --          --             --           --          -_            __          __
General Management and
Administration - Recurrent
Mivani                              28         8.2           5.8 J           5.2       --          --             --            3.0        --            __          __
Ihemelil                            28         7.5           --             --         --          --             --          --            7.5          --          --
Muhoroni                            28        15.4           5.8 6           5.2       --          --             -_           __          --            10.2        --
Ria i                               28        12.3           5.8  /          5.2                   --                          --          --            --           7.1
Roads
Capital                             29        74.2          74.2            23.3      -_          46.9            --          -1.6          o.8          i.6         --
Recurrent                           30         7.5          --              -     -                --             6.5          o.4          O.2           o.4        __
Housing
Miiwani                             31        28.0          26.7 7/         24.0       --          --             --           4.0         --            _           --
Chemelil                            31        12.2           --             --         --          --             --           --          12.2          --          --
Muhoroni                            31        40.3          38.5 7/         34.7       __          __             __          __--                        5.6        -_
Remlai                              31        24.1          23.1 7/         --        22           --             --          __           --            --           2.1
Kibos Research
Capital                             32         3.3           3.3             3.0      --            0.3           --          __           __           __           __
Recurrent                           32         6.9           5.8             6 .4                   0.5           --          -            __           __
IKA - Training/Studies                 33         5.5            5.5            5.0       --           0.5           --           --          --            --          --
Physical Contingenciesa 1/                       20.6           20.6            12.8                    7.8          -            -
TOTtL.                   1,103.9          767.7          576.01/   48.0          96.8           7.9         67.9       1119.1        114.4         73.8
US$                        138.0          96.0            72.0       6,0         12.1           1.0          8.5         14.9         14.3          9.2
I/  Includes incremental salaries of the Agricultural Department, and agricultural ataff training costs.
/ Includes fertilizers (XRhs. 11.2 million) and land preparation and planting operatinns (CShs. 12.8 million)
over five yearn, and field maintenance (hilling and weeding) over three years (KSbs. 3.3 million).
3/ Includes fertilizers (KShs. 13.2 rnillicn) and land preparation and planting operations (ESha. 16.7 nillion).
3 Includes fertilizers (EBhs. 16.2 million), land preparstion and planting operationa (ESha. 14.6 =illicn)
and field maintenance (hilling and weeding) (KEa. 25.4 million) over five years.
N/ few equity participstion in Ranisi by Government.  KShs. 14.0  illian in Gonsrnannt esqity
could be financed with proceeds of thl World bank lnan.
6 Includes incremental nalaries of the Finance and Controllers Department and the Industrial Relations Department.
7/ TAcludes maintenance costs.
Includes salaries, staff allowances, recruitment/resettlement expenses, and staff training costs.
2/ Includes Government equity financing sf EMbe. 27.6 million for Muhoroni and KSha. 14.0 million for Ramisi, nnd
loan financing of KShs. 466.1 million to the sugar companies and KShs. 73.5 million to Government.
10/ Additional 25. physIcal ...atigecies oan irrigatios  end drainaga bca-aa  final *nginarrieg design  aot randy yet.
october 17, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projected Production and Prices
Unit     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 7      Year 8       Year 9      Year 10      Year 11
Sugar pri.:c.                             Ksh/ton      2,800      2,800       2,800      2,800        2,800       2,800       2,800       2,800       2,800       2,800        2,800
Sugar cane price                          Ksh/ton        133        133         133         133         133         133         133         133         133         133          133
Production without Project
Nucleus Estate 6ugdr Cane                  '000
Miwani                                 ton           112        112         112         112         112         112         112         112         112         112          112
Chemelil                                            135        135         135         135         135         135         135          135         135         135          135
Muhoroni                                              50         50          50          50          50          50          50          50          50          50           50
Ramisi                                               105       105         105         105         105          105         105         105         105         105          105
Outgrowers Sugar Cane                      '000
Miwani                                 ton           200        200         200         200         200         200         200         200         200         200          200
Chemelil                                             299       299         299         299         299         299         299          299         299         299          299
Muhoroni                                             205        205         205        205         205          205         205         205         205         205          205
Ramisi                                                15        15           15         15          15           15          15          15          15          15           15
Sugar Extraction Rate                       %
Miwani                                             8.6         8.6         8.6         8.6         8.6          8.6       8.6          8.6          8.6         8.6          8.6
Chemelil                                          10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0       10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0
Muhoroni                                          10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0       10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0
Ramisi                                             7.2         7.2         7.2         7.2         7.2          7.2       7.2          7.2          7.2         7.2          7.2
Production with Project
Nucleus Estate Sugar Cane                  '000
Miwani                                 ton           112       112          112         124         131         134         142         142         142         142          142
Chemelil                                             135       135         135         148         159          166         174         173         174         176          176
Muhoroni                                              50         50          50          79          99         110         128         127         128         128          129
Ramisi                                               105       105         127         161         205          210         240         240         255         285          285
Outgrowers Sugir Cane                      'o00
Miwani                                 ton           200       200         200          280        336          364         419         428         429         429          429
Chemelil                                            299        299         299         345         374          383         415         415         415         415          415
Muhoroni                                             205        205         205        317          388         413         492         492         492         492          492
Ramisi                                                15        15          28          45           63          76         105         103         110         119          133
Sugar Extraction Rate                       Z
Miwani                                             8.6         9.0         9.4         9.8        10.0         10.0       10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0
Chemelil                                          10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0       10.0        10.0          10.0        10l0         10.0
Muhoroni                                           10.0       10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0        10.0       10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0          10.0
Ramisi                                             7.2         7.2         8.3         8.5         8.8          9.0        9.0         9.0          9.0         9.0           9.0
June 30, 1978                                                                                                                                                                    j
0' n



K ENYA
SUCAR REHRABILTT ATION PROJECT
Coveromen, cash Flow 1'
'KShs '000)
Year 1       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        Year 6       Ya            er8          Ya            er1           erI
CASH iNFLOW
Loan Disbursement
World Bink                                         38,500       142,500      157,200       152,000        93,600        17,400        ----                                                  -
African Development Back (ADB)                      2,800         8900        .1.0          10-400        141.300       4,8100        -             -             .-
Subtotal                            41,300       151,400      169,100       162,400       10,900         22200         -----                              
Raventues
-Sugar Exclse and Poads and Drainage
Maintenance Fund  2'                          ---          1 398         7 705       51 333        87 975       109 197      144 986    145 972         150 340      152 595       157 385
-Company Tncome Tax  3/                              480          (800)      (2 815)        1 890         5 205       15 729        21. 974      32 102       33 368        34 161        36 681
-other Duties and Taxes  4/                        4 614        10 695       14 645        17 480        14 965       14 067        13 890       14 100        14 100       14 100        14 100
Interest Payments 'Companies)   ,/360                               5_560        17_560       31_960        43 290        47.300       47 190       47 190        46 240       45 300        45 300
Repayment of Loans (Comoan4es)  5/                                   --            -            -                         16, 640      146 640      16 640        3   8         460          3   9
Total Cash Inflow-                  46 754       168 253      206 195       265 063       256 335      225 133       244 680    25600U4         279 728      290 9336      289 146
CASH OUTFLOW
Proiect Costs  6/                                                   3 645         3 854        4 348         5 928         2 054         2 750       2 750         2 750         2 750         2 750
-Roads                                             4 576        29 953       12 862         9874         10 877         1 928        3503         3503          3503         3503          3503
-Roads and Dra'nage maintenance                     --           --           1 539         2 630         3 757        5 115         5 115        5 115         5 115        5 155         5 115
-Drainage 6./                                      4 532         6.638       10 707         7 745         8 385        7 944         2.297        2 297         2 297        2 297         2 297
-Research Q(*Ibns)            .                       58         I 906        4 902         2 110         1 185         1 185        1 185        1 185         1 185         1 185        1 155
- LE                                               2 606         2 224           768          185           201           220           220         220           220           220           220
Subtotal                            It 772        44 366        34.632       26 892        30,333        18 446        15 070      15 070        15 070        15 070        15 070
Loans and Equity to Companies
-Miwani  Sugar M'lls Limited                       6 800        28 600       32 800        36 600        17 400         1 100          --          --            --            --            --
-East African Sugar Industries Limited0
- Muhoroni                                    17 300        39 500        35 300       39.900        18,400         3 500          -            --                           --
-Associated Sugar Company Li.ited-Ramisi           7 900       40 5010       75 651.,5     61.300        42 400       10 10I-                       ----
Subtotal                            32 000       108 600      143.615       137,800        78 200        14 700          -                         --
interest Payment
World Rank                                          1 540         8 780        20 770       33 120        42 960        45 190       43 590       40 380        37 180        33 970        30 770
African Development Rank                               110          580         1 410        2 300         3 170         3 680        3  4            40         3 740         3 740        3 740
Subtotal                             1.650         9.360        22 1.80      35 420        46 130        49 470        47 330      44 120        40.920        37 71.0       34 51.0
Loan C omm itment Charges
W,orld Bank                                         4 360         3,680         2 560        1 400           480           370          --            -           --                   -- 
African Development Rank                               240         220           160            110           50            10          ------
Subtotal                             4600          3 900         2 720         1510            530          380          -            --
Loan Repayments
WorldSBank                                             --          --            --                  --    -            40 080        40 080      40 080        40 080        40 080        40 080
African Developmen'  Bank-                                         -              ----                                   3.340         3,340       3 340         3.340         3 340         3 340
Subtotal                               --           ---                         --           --          43.420        43 420      43 420        43 420        43 420        43 420
Total Cash Outflow                  50 022       166226       203. 147      201 622       155 193        82 996       105,820     102 61.0       9n 410        96 200        93.000
CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                  '3 268)       2 027         3 048        63 441      101 142       142 137       138 860      153 304      179 318       184 636       195 146
CUMULAT-VE SURPLUS 'DEFICIT)                            '3 268)       1 241         1 807        65 248      166 390       309 527       447 387    600 781.       780 090       0v64 735   1 159.881
in current prices fo'r Years 1-6, thereafter in Year 6 (1983) constant prices.
2/  Excise tax in constant 1977 prices, assumed at KSha . 1,0O0/t for Years 1-5, adjusted to cu~rrent terms by using a factor
of 7.5% (KbSh. 1,075) in Year 2, 15% (KShs. 1,150) in Year 3, 23.1% (KShs. 1,231) in Year 4, 31.7% (KShs. 131.7) in Year 5
and 40.9% (KgsIJ. 1,409) in Year 6.
3/ Values in constant 1977 prices adjustetd by 7.5% in Year 2, 15% in Year 3, 23.1% in Year 4, 31.7% in Year 5 and 40.9% in.
Year 6; thereaf'ter in Year 6 constant prices.                                                                                                                                                              I
4/Includes import duties on materials, machinery, vebicles acid equipments; eiccise taxes on capital. and current inputs.
5/ Based on Tablea 3, 11 and 15.
6/Includes physical contingenicy of 152.
Novemrber 7, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHAbLITIATION PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Inflows and Outflows /
(XShs. '000)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6       Year 7     Year 8      Year 9      Year 10      Year 11
World Bank                                   38,500      142,500      157,200     152,000      93,600      17 400         __          __          __          _  
African Development Bank (ADD)               _2 800         8.900      11,900      10-400      11,300       4.800 _       _ 
subtotail -                     41,300      151,400     169 100      162.400     104.900      22,200         --         --          -     -                   --
Foreign Exchange Value of Sugar
Production 3/                                  --        4,740       27,800     176.350     288,240     341,540      453,480    456,560      470,230     477,280      492,260
Ecport of' Molasses 4                            --          --           450       5,360       9 440      11,840       16.09C      16,200      16.760      17.040       17,660
Total Cash Inflow               41,300      156.14t0    197,350      344.110     402,580     375,580      1469,570    472,760     486,990     494,320     509,920
OUTFIOWS
Foreign Exchange Component of Capital
and Recurrent 1
Miwani                                   4,290       19 590       23-130      32.610      28 100       28,690       30,280     41,370      43,280      44,61o       34,560
Chemelil                                 3 210       14.250       10 040      18 990      20,890       20,500      22,340     29,750       24,650      26,430       23,400
Muhoroni                                10,910       25,650       25 070      38 380      36 450       36,230       39,140     50,030      47,390      49,730       39,450
Ramisi                                   5,640       25.700       44,920      44 970      37,790       34,850      31,290      43,840      54,310      52,970       40,520      N
Government                               6.240        23.510      18.090      14.240      16.080        8.870        8.36o      8,360       B.%6o       8,360        B,. 60     5
Rubtotal                        30,290      108 770     121 250      149 190     139,310      129,140     131,410    173,350      177,990     182,100      11,90
Interest Payments 6,7                           1,650        9 360       22.180      35 400      46.130       .49 470      47.330     44 120      40,920       37.110      34 510
Commitment Charges E                            4 600         3.900       2 720       1,510         530           380        --         --          --           --          --
Loan Repayments                                                            --          --          --          432.43,420                         43 420       43.420      43 420
Total Cash Outflow     ~~~~~~~36,540  12.03     146150       186.120     185.970      222 410      22  16     20890       22, 330     263 230      224,220
Total Cash Outflaw                          1224,3 142201                                                              6
NET INFLOW (OUTPLOw)                              4 760       34 110       51,200     157,990     216 610       153.170     247,410    211.870      224 660     231 090     285.700
CUMULATIVE IRFLOW (OUTLOW)                        4,760       38 870       90,070     248,060     464.670       617 840     865.250  1,077 120   1,301 780   1 532.870   1 818,570
E/ xpreseed in current prices for Years 1-6, in constant Year 6 (1983) prices thereafter.
21 From Table 27 -
:/ Based on the foreign exchange element of the import substitution of KShs. 3,207/t (January) 1978 prices, adjusted for
inflaltn to KSbs. 3,650/t in Year 2, KShs. 4,149/t in Year 3, KShs. 4,229/t in Year 4, KShs. 4,315/t in Year 5 and KShs. 4,4o7/t
from Year 6 onvards.
Based on molazsses prices, f.o.b. Mombasa of KShs. 400/t in Year 3, KYhs. 430/t in Year 4, KShs. 460/t in Year 5 and KShs. 475/t
from Year 6 onvwrda.
21  Calculated from Project coets tables in Annexii; represents a foreign exchange component averaging 53% for Years 1-6 and varying
for the following years.
B/ Pased on Table 17.
June 30, 1978
e,. |
CD U,



- 210 -
ANNEX 15
Appendix l
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
1.        Revenues and expenses are stated in a constant monetary unit (1978).
2.        The project is to be implemented from 1979 to 1983.  Investments
required to replace the capital equipment beyond 1983 are included
in the projections.
3.        Sales volumes and prices for the four companies are listed on
Table 26.
4.        Sales include net revenue from sale of molasses.
5.        Variable costs include the cost of cane purchased from outgrowers,
nucleus estate production cost, and variable factory costs. The
selling price of cane and estimated recovery rates are in Table 26.
Nucleus estate production costs and factory costs are calculated
in Annex 11. Variable costs decrease from 1979 to 1981 because of
productivity gains resulting from investments made by the companies
before the Project.
6.        Fixed expenses include factory overhead, general administration,
and depreciation charges. Depreciation was provided for substan-
tially all equipment on a straight line basis according to expected
useful lives of individual items. Fixed expenses of Chemelil and
Muhoroni also included a management fee.
7.        Interest on the Rehabilitation subloans was provided at 10.5% p.a.;
on other loans, the actual rate was applied.
8.        The corporate income tax rate of 45% was calculated where appli-
cable. Some of the companies have benefited or are expected to
benefit in the future from the provisions of Kenya Tax code regard-
ing tax loss carry-forward.
9.        Incremental dividends were projected for Chemelil only, beginning
in 1979, as recommended by Chemelil management.
lO.       Current assets and liabilities have been projected according to
estimated production from Table 26 and growing cycles, as illus-
trated in Annex 6, Tables 1-5.
11.       Net trading assets equal current assets minus cash, minus current
liabilities.



- 211 -
ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
Page 2
12.       Rehabilitation subloans are to be drawn down in 5 years, have a
final maturity of 20 years and are repaid in 15 years beginning the
last day of drawdown period. Ramisi would receive three year grace
period and repay in 12 years.
13.       Muhoroni will receive KSh. 24 million additional equity financing;
Ramisi, Ksh. 36 million.






SUGAR REHABILITATION  PROJECT
Nyanzo Sugar Belt-Miwoni
SIGARCANE FI5LS
/   /'      /?t     :>    Qj~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                   (xopsmidd ee,t, icc smtedtheOen
01n eres ereloce  IIePected Wedt eb.dt 30% of
c",                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he end o,,ld, ,ider, the, br,otx p onted to or
ExNt e    -pe     Ur1   x h  1o  re.
WwtrtggCn, enie~otI  et  oot,fu  Ixert ,x,t-  of th_n
Jto ' IeC' n eh-o eld nont-n, to gen doewo   be
z    i    ,    ....    c   a   1e   .i   C   7  a  eo  .................... a. M .... t. ts;1x 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:qxcd nde th pr cc
fN0    -                             nn~~~~~~~~~~~~~he,highet,tLde bone of (tI,et zone thorn w-uld 
on e Oflp-CUnder tine Ptotr, ttuh ne Crep nhr
:   \   X   DGt   @   <  D  'S\S  t  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ecxpnton    noeoe  tt   t et000co
n    be, ph\-\  Oct _  der toe Eto p,,t, x-g rpe  [o
KBOS                                                         "                                                                   c MRA                       No  hr
ExttunW,derse.enq C2eeo  od
Ex-det  b,,tco,hon    tnol d -doto   bonds
HAA                       Rd -
COOPEATIVE   COPRfV- hnddd
L-                          '2-at7=-z--;L-'t"9    ----- 9cenen '
ID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
Won,vuo
Apri97
Mt WAN   -
tOMUHORON
0                                               - ~~~~~~    heopoced  Coonin~~~~~~~~~'r     C -   ,td M
I fnexe r-er,etOM,,h-ro to nCo,-






SRD 12992
K E N'J f A
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Nyanza Sugar Belt - Miwani
DRAINAGE NEEDS AND IRRIGATION POSSIBILITIES
\  --- - B-d - r eS of proposed foctory zones
C-netees trot ou a benfit fr-  proposd dreinogo
~~~~~~~~~~Addi~t-releecI  r    M eon  factory tio   -1ord Olc  benfit
/Lnd              re:dy  dero e  rnd bd r g :b e l,  AterA
/                   \         s                !,  L    ':   w   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~-d >,    CfMdt -lO es w, P la y   -q.y b  e  -re
oqop f-om
a  ar1                                                                             iNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aproeio
Ah-r
I
1  <.  - ' . ->                 .                 rThr- '-
hr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hr
k~~~~~~~ I
Z        Al                                                                                                                      K   E   N    Y   A
-L12;  0  t; C / or,  Sb          <f'/                                                                                                     Iara
2 L t- e f ; A 0 l; t S: it 0 di-D; L,'i\\   \>>J   V                         .  SUA -, kS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPA
_:    :    .    ;    0    i   |   0   :   0  ;  1  .:  i. > A . ,, X , \ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rl. S/t~~~'






: -~                                               Q:Jt --
-  -t                                             :-                -    :t-               , /
--3...................   * .1i' D X*   '  ................................m
k                  i                                  p            9 ',   2 9 S  ;  - b   - j g .6 < 3   -  2






IBRD 12981
K E N` YA         
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Nyanza So1gar Bel -Chemerel and Muhoroni
CANE GROWING AREAS
SUGARCANE FIELDS
C-X ;.< ' t / , _ ' r_r> ^ 97 * 4 nrPns murked E, t e pected th ft o t 30r -'-rkdgEwt 3tp,,t,th.t-0 3,", 
0  <                                     RO                                                                                                           |                                                       q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'h  a a
~~~ and won a, under rIo pro nil, on o omen to corn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,~,  ..d ndr h, p.,,-, .   W,dt
/    ,/=   wy   ,4   Y  -  ,  1  C  ~~~~~~~- / . _t , ,/ ) , , , < ^, , Proposed r..s   e2>cTTC                                           \n                                   nnIrinroop-rt ce ane boarre[r IT
:r^,,) r-  -v< ,>< i   r             '            \     J'''! tri^na, net r=inrp-rr  c                                                                       l,rku ' a1m=
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,ti ,,, _hl -f- f. -r. c.- G-'-..                                                                                                 d
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  _  L"'                                                                   ,,,         -'                                                              eterr ire2 whic tol.A C'T OLe TOc0  nrnu
yr-J    si,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *  fa~~~~~~~~~~~~a  ~~~~~- Li,krdn me tne praJeat
L ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ -               ,         -            KAPUATE                                                                                                  B-rare  of prp-rdc rot-r
,,}G 1EMAS oE/.                                                                              ""SNIA                                                                                                                        o i   rot    ,dr              d- noonc
foINo BRIDGE  --0100
c=    E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -,  I"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I*                                                                                                     I___
a -,auS =         ' SffS (Nt    00KAMAREROa
I>       ""                                                                                                                      Ar  arc'7
h' VJANI ~        rAA   ta.   O 
TIDERET    KULNYAK(                                                                   NMj-ORON
-           0~~~~~~p-0                                              I h
V arc c ~    ~       ML"      '--
C                        -~~~~~~~~~. Pto-tdaeorir.nIOr
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paoseen,gr,TamaaCeI
Ix    FORT~                                             A,
TERNAN                    ,EpOOa
a'~~~~)  5>    ~~~~~~~-->J                                 Rc~KE     YA   'Dona
llfqL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
.5-a.  U                                                                                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nan~~~~~~~~~te~~~~~~~    ~~~~~  a>    arc ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






K E N. Y A
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Nyarnza Sugar Belt-Chemelil and Muhoron
DRAINAGE NEEDS AND IRRIGATION POSSIBILITIES
B-ud.-r eof propo-d ftecrcy oe
C- Ce fields that aWould Beef t fro  proposed dro-ne
Bonere   0 dd0  -ci  01 Potert,o lyireoeees
Land re-oe rotoOle.m
C'  Cro-elt
N   N]eondo
L  Lorge f-rm
Li  CooBe-tt- SnO
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o .-M.<                            a
eme~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oSteet
1nW   *  *-Li  A*%  -t  -;^\-- <iL B  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v---      Rca  ce   toe0
t:,Ik,a.  J  ,               -                             t              -                   >                * 0          r      3     4      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
uh6ro-  . .  m /  .                                    ,                                                    !
'0 '   '-L                   I R@ - t   -l  >   '  t   fF i   > .,   t_   i\'                     Ea
!  .   k '.  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~
:: Ntf                                              
a 9 ,                       , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 -'rrr 0W 0  






N                 N                                                                                                                                   0  -
0u co           E E                                                                                                                              I 5E
~~C   I  N~~~~~~       E         N                                                                                                         
C  C~     o -    O T .   N g  N        N  NE>         
it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N N~~~~~~~~~~-.  >--                                                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N    0000        -                                                                                                                      N<N /~~~.......
z!j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.........
.........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






, S5                                                                                                 H I M    E A      H I L I S           N A .T  I                                       .                                                                                                                                                     e k
rR                                                                                                                                     R' E 5 E R, V  E
9         K    E    N    Y    A
No,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
,o~~~~~~~~~94s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~
o~~9K W - - Lo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            // to el
n F /                          Moroget         b o omflellIQ
Road' Sua  Zn
v t t n v v emel / \ n<g7 Eg 1 > 3 > / 8;Zk > vS @s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 oomte rodo$ lo, o ot
/ (\ kg t~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                    ;=7 a,                                                                                                                                                                                      Boodo .59  V:on.  s -I     i E s;'t a\\t 
> 07                                                                                                                                                                                                                V  ,   X    E  MKis:mberuim A > > t | / .- 9 , : : : :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O d it o K to ex or te sn o K ( O ts d e V o li i  ot t
i g 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                sp  tfler   rtr ot r 0 ;0 0 00  CoAt0EAIstlTTNPOECT
,.  RoUotdory of OdtooRoe-s
\\   t                               Ma o                                                      ' t.           ,~~~~~~~~~to                       ort   4zW?j                                                                                      :Du                                 Q       PcJC    R'
,, ve vA > .; r <--                                                         ,-'W'.on'                                                                                                                                                             f               0               I                   KtlUro (000    BN ol  e
\                                                                                  /s  r___________/ _________________________EtCte4O                                                                                                                                                                                                   _/         _
\ t; -L  - ;  t  /1 , y ;  0 >  2  i;;  \  -- PsobstdrS;ch-l|(dr rleMs xs
\              K                      riJj i                %/'- '',S g                                                                             ''                           J         \         S_4S\_                                                                    Rodi
\   A - S :     .     .      L      L  01       W                                                                 W            W    :E      g                        :                                  :    f    S  AS:          :    :   -t  -H   P.erter;votr~~~~~~T, ~






c    2
l ii                 -    -0
fc~~~~~~~~~d  -"~~~~~~~~T
27-J!  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               01~~~~~I
xE               F~~~~~~~m1
11J,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~to-                                                                                            ~1
-   -   -   - -   -   -     -   -   - -- - - -



