Document of                    FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-24l2-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
November 17, 1978
This doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offical duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =       Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1            =      US$0.125
US$1.00          =      KSh 8.00
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.00 which is close
to the average 1978 exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya:         July 1 - June 30
Sugar Companies:             January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK       =    Cooperative Bank of Kenya
Chemelil  =    Chemelil Sugar Company Limited
EAC       =    East African Community
KSA       =    Kenya Sugar Authority
Miwani    =    Miwani Sugar Mills Limited
Muhoroni  =    East African Sugar Industries Limited
NIB       =    National Irrigation Board
NSRI      =    National Sugar Research Institute
Ramisi    =    Associated Sugar Company Limited
RDMF      =    Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund
SBCU           Sugar Belt Cooperative Union



KENYA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
LDAN AND PROJECT SUMI4ARY
BORROWER         :   Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES        The Miwani, East African and Associated sugar companies
will receive Loan proceeds directly, the Chemelil company
will benefit from infrastructure investments and general
sector support financed under the project.
AMOUNT           :   US$72.0 million equivalent
TERMS            :   Payable in 20 years including 5 years of grace at an
interest rate of 7.35% per annum
RELENDING        :  US$52.4 million of the proceeds of the loan would be
TERMS                relent by the Government to the Miwani ($15.4 million),
East MArican ($15.8 million) and Associated ($21.2 million)
sugar companies. Relending to the companies would be at
10.5% annual interest for 20 years, with 5 years of grace
in the cases of East African and Miwani and 8 years of
grace for Associated.- The foreign exchange risk on that
part of the proceeds of the loan used for direct foreign
exchange expenditures would be borne by the companies.
US$3.4 million and US$1.8 million of the proceeds of the
loan would be passed on to East African and Associated
respectively in the form of equity.
PROJECT          :   The project seeks to reduce Kenya's import dependence in
DESCRIPTION          sugar and to promote balanced regional economic growth
and errmployment by rehabilitating existing factories,
nucleus estates and outgrower areas. The project includes:
(a) imiprovement of outgrower and nucleus estate sugar
production; (b) factory rehabilitation and expansion; (c)
provision of modest staff housing plus utilities; (d)
road upgrading and construction; (e) drainage; (f) irri-
gation; and (g) research. The project would result
in a 109,000 tons per annum increase in sugar production
and related decrease in imports by the mid-1980s saving
about US$30.0 million net foreign exchange annually;
income increases of between 25%-190% for some 10,800
smalllholder families would result, and incomes to the
sugar estates and several hundred large cane producers
would also increase. In addition, some 1,000. wage paying
opportunities would be created. The project faces some
risks in that the incremental cane output could be less
than anticipated if the planned organizational improve-
ments in company-outgrower relationships fail to materi-
alize or if yield shortfalls occur due to varying soils
and weather conditions. Furthermore, investment in ad-
ditional sugar production capacity beyond that currently
This document has a restricted clistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theif ofcil duties. Its contef may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
planned could result in a surplus above domestic consumption
which might have to be exported at prices below production
costs. Availability of cane harvest labor could also be a
problem.
ESTIMATED COST:                                            US$ million
Local      Foreign      Total
Irrigation                                      2.7           2.9         5.6
Drainage                                        3.4           3.9         7.3
Agricultural Development                       19.4          23.0        42.4
Sugar Factories                                 7.6          12.2        19.8
Company Management/Administration               2.1           1.7         3.8
Roads                                           3.9           3.6         7.5
Housing and other Facilities                    6.9           2.8         9.7
National Sugar Research Institute               0.4           0.5         0.9
Kenya Sugar Authority                           0.2           0.4         0.6
Sub-Total               46.6          51.0        97.6
Physical Contingency                            6.1           6.8        12.9
Price Contingency                              13.5          14.0        27.5
Total Project Cost                      66.2          71.8      138.0
Total Project Cost Net of Taxes        56.6          71.8       128.4
FINANCING PLAN:                                            US$ million
Local      Foreign      Total   %
World Bank                                      2.0         70.0        72.0   56
African Development Bank                        4.2          1.8         6.0    5
Government                                      3.5          --          3.5     3
Miwani Sugar Mills Limited                      8.5          --          8.5     7
Chemelil Sugar Company Limited                 14.9          __         14.9   11
East African Sugar Industries Limited          14.3          __         14.3   11
Associated Sugar Company Limited                9.2                      9.2     7
Total Project Cost Net of Taxes and Duties  56.6            71.8       128.4  100
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                                    US$ million
Bank         FY 1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Annual                       1.8   10.9   16.5   17.8   12.7    7.6    4.7
Cumulative                   1.8   12.7   29.2   47.0   59.7   67.3   72.0
RATE OF RETURN:       33%
APPRAISAL REPORT:    Report No. 1887-KE, dated November 1, 1978
MAP:                  Nos. IBRD 12990; 12991; and 12997R



INTERNATIONAL BAiNK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$72.0 million to help
finance a project for sugar rehabilitation. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.35% per annum. About
US$52.4 million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to three sugar
companies, the Miwani Sugar Mills Limited (US$15.4 million), the East African
Sugar Industries Limited (US$15.8 million) and the Associated Sugar Company
Limited (US$21.2 million). The Government relending to the companies would be
at 10.5% interest per anntum for 20 years, with 5 years of grace in the case of
East African and Miwani, and 8 years of grace for Associated. In addition,
the Government would make US$3.4 million and US$1.8 million of the proceeds of
the loan available to East: African and Associated respectively, as equity.  The
remaining US$14.4 million would be used by the Government to implement other
project components. The (,overnment has also received a loan of US$6.0 million
from the African Development Bank which would help finance agricultural devel-
opment and workers' housinig at Associated.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1783a-KE, dated December 28, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A summary of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic
Economic Report on Kenya is now under preparation--the mission to complete the
report returned from Kenya in mid-November.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first fifteen years of independence Kenya has had conti-
nuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. More recently, policy statements have suggested an
increasing emphasis on poverty alleviation measures even at the cost of a
slight reduction in the riate of economic growth. With the death of President
Kenyatta there is inevitalbly some uncertainty about the future, but preliminary
indications are that the main outline of Kenyan development strategy will
remain the same.
1/ This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Report P-2395-KE of October
18, 1978).



- 2 -
4.         Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1977 was US$270 and agriculture
accounted for 29% (constant prices) of GDP on average during the period 1975-77.
Agriculture provided over 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood for the 90% of the population which lives in rural areas.
5.        Growth of the economy since independence has been impressive.  From
1964-73 total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6%. Manufacturing was
the most rapidly growing of the major sectors during the period; value added
in manufacturing increased by 8.4% per annum and the share of the manufactur-
ing sector rose from 10.4% of GDP in 1964 to 13.6% in 1973. Agricultural
growth contributed to the strong overall performance as well. Agricultural
output increased by over 50% from 1964-73, or at an average annual rate of
4.5%.  Marketed production in agriculture grew especially fast (6.0% per
annum) but subsistence production also grew faster than population during the
period.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a
number of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain
growth and to reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of populition in
th4 face of limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. Most of the high-potential land is
densely settled. Pressure on the land was alleviated during the years follow-
ing independence by the opening up of a large part of the land previously
owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders. However, with
population growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This has resulted
in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in
settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. These problems help to
account for the slackening in recent years of the previously high agricultural
growth rate, which fell from 4.5% per annum from 1964-73 to 2.3% per annum
from 1973-77.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. The non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of
the total labor force) is unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants
because of its small base. Considerable budgetary pressure has also been
created because of the growing demand for social services. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income are impeded because of the relative lack
of access to land and education for the children of the poorest sections of
the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.  The
rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon investments



in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, lparticularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector in-
creasingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export. This will be difficult,
however, because existing industry has been developing under high protection
and is relatively uncompetitive in world markets.
10.       An additional problem is the stagnation of export volume in recent
years. From 1964-72 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate
of 4.6%.  Between 1972 and 1974 export volume increased by an additional 11%
but has not risen above the 1974 level. To some extent this is a reflection
of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also an indica-
tor of the need to direct more resources into foreign exchange earning activi-
ties. A combination of slow export growth and continued high import dependence
would leave the Kenyan economy very vulnerable to fluctuations in the terms of
trade.
Developments since the 1974-75 Crisis
11.       The Kenyan economy was disrupted by import price increases and by
drought in 1974-75. Marketed agricultural production did not grow at all in
1974 and 1975 while total GDP grew at only 1.6% per annum. The value of
imports increased by more than 50% over the 1973 level and the balance of
payments position deteriorated. The crisis highlighted the extent to which
Kenya, with its import-intensive manufacturing and limited domestic energy
resources, had become dependent on imports.
12.       The Government made several policy changes to deal with the crisis.
First, it introduced measures to minimize the loss of foreign exchange re-
serves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in sales
taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to users,
and a freeze on Government recruitment. Second, since its Development Plan
had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with more modest growth and equity targets. Achieving those targets
required restraining consumption in favor of investment, lowering Kenya's high
import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented.
13.       There was a marked improvement in the economy in 1976 and 1977,
though this was largely due to external circumstances rather than to the
effects of the Restructuring Program, most of whose effects are longer-range.
Favorable weather conditions helped agricultural output to grow by nearly 8%
during the two years and high coffee and tea prices transformed the balance of
payments position. The volume of coffee exports increased by nearly 40%



-4-
between 1975 and 1977 while the average price received more than quadrupled.
The balance of payments moved into surplus in 1976 and in 1977 there was a
surplus on current account, the first in thirteen years.
14.       The coffee boom also had numerous secondary repercussions.  High
coffee incomes stimulated activity in manufacturing and other sectors, and
also helped directly and indirectly to finance an investment boom; gross fixed
capital formation rose by 22.6% in real terms between 1975 and 1977. The
effect on domestic savings was even more dramatic; the ratio of domestic
savings to GNP rose from 12.5% in 1975 to 18.7% in 1976 to 22.7% in 1977.
Finally, current revenue of the Government increased by about 50% during the
budget year 1977/78. This was matched, however, by an increase in recurrent
expenditure, while development expenditure increased by at least 40% according
to preliminary estimates.  In real terms total Government expenditure increased
by more than 20%. This increase was greater than anticipated because of unex-
pected large increases in defense expenditure and because of heavy investment
in transportation equipment occasioned by the break-up of the East African
Community.
15.       As a result of these generally expansionary conditions a short-term
macro-management problem has emerged. The total supply of money and quasi-
money expanded by 46.8% during 1977. Consumer price increases accelerated,
with price increases in 1977 ranging from 13.5% for the Nairobi Middle Income
Index to 21.0% for the Nairobi Lower Income Index. Imports also grew rapidly
during the first few months of 1978 at the same time as coffee prices declined
well below the level of early 1977. The full effect of past monetary expan-
sion has probably not yet been realized and continued pressure on domestic
prices and import demand can be expected. In order to restore domestic and
external stability, it may be necessary to pursue more restrictive monetary
and budgetary policies in the near future.
16.       Of more long-term significance is implementation of the Restructur-
ing Program. The Government has made good progress but there are some areas
in which further action is needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced
procedures to ensure better control of expenditure and increased expenditure
in directly productive activities. However, as noted above, unanticipated
expenditures have temporarily put renewed pressure on the budget. The Govern-
ment has also emphasized agricultural sector development and taken a variety
of measures to improve performance in this sector (see para. 30). Periodic
producer price increases and a strong wages policy have helped to shift the
terms of trade between agriculture and manufacturing in favor of agriculture
by over 100% during the past three years after a long period during which they
had moved in favor of manufacturing; even if coffee is excluded the improve-
ment was close to 50%. However, the Government has been slow to formulate
and implement badly needed new policies in the industrial field. While it
introduced duties on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital
goods as steps towards a more rational protection system, increased the sales
tax on luxury goods, introduced an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate the ex-
port of manufactured goods and certain commodities, and devalued the shilling
in October 1975 to make manufactured exports more competitive, a comprehensive
policy package to eliminate the disadviantages under which export-oriented
industries operate remains to be formulated.



-5-
Development Plan FY79-83
17.       Background studies are now under way to analyze major economic and
social issues in preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan. The
major objective for the next Plan period will be alleviation of poverty
through the creation of income earning possibilities and by providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Thus, while the Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity in Kenya's
development strategy, there would be greater attention paid to social
objectives as compared with the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third
Plan. At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in
developing strategies in urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
18.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations)
is expected to rise to about 11.5% by 1985. Including this share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 29% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
11%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 33% and the IDA share to 12% by
1985. Debt service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service
payments; IDA share is about 1%. These two figures are projected to be about
the same by 1985. Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans
to straight grants (including conversion of some loans to grants 1/) or to
loans on very concessional terms and the Govermnent has pursued a rather
conservative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the recovery
of Kenya's overall savings performance to a notable 18% of Gross Domestic
Income, it is projected that Kenya's development program will require substan-
tial finance in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external
capital combined and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing
a substantial proportion of total project costs, including some local costs
when necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
19.       Recent developmients of the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R 77-312).
The de facto breakup of tlhe EAC has had some impact on Kenya's budget. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former East African
Community Corporations required investment outlays as well as operating
subsidies from the Government, but the burden on the Government budget will
hopefully be temporary, as the Corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania will have some effect
on trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods
and new markets will have to be developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya
were small replacing these should not be a major issue except in specific
commodities (i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also had a
slightly negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome
this by developing beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
1/   Since the amounts involved so far have been relatively small, the
impact of these conversions on the debt service ratio and on the
Bank's exposure has been marginal.



-6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
20.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 29 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 25 IDA credits amounting to US$752.1 million, sup-
porting 46 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the
East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans
and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community Corporations, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of October 31, 1978.
21.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In addition to increasing lending in directly productive sectors
(particularly agriculture), a US$30 million program loan was approved in 1975
to provide direct assistance to the Government for implementing its Restructur-
ing Program (paras. 12 and 16). While recent sector and economic work has
also focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
22.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1977 include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project aimed directly at small subsistence
farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive infrastruc-
tural developments; and an Irrigation Project which will open up significant
new areas for settlement. The Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya
for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve its wildlife
and exploit its foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending
program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank and a Small
Scale Industry Project. Recently a Fourth Education Project, a Water Supply
Project for Nairobi, a Second Urban Project and an Engineering Project (Olkaria
Geothermal) were approved. Negotiations for an Agricultural Development
Project for Narok district and a Rural Water Supply Project have also been
completed. In the near future, further support to the agriculture sector is
expected to include a smallholder coffee improvement project, a second inte-
grated agricultural development project and a pilot scheme for development of
arid and semi-arid areas. In addition, a telecommunications project, a
highway sector loan and a further power project are contemplated.
23.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suf-
fering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government has recently
increased beef prices substantially and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to
participate. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns, most



- 7 -
notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction projects. The
Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
24.       IFC has committed a total of US$36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of October 31, 1978, IFC held for its own account US$28.4
million comprising US$20.4 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC investments in Kenya as of October 31, 1978 is included in
Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
25.       In spite of the rapid expansion of manufacturing in Kenya, agri-
culture remains the most important sector of the economy. As noted above, it
provides the livelihood for some 12 million people (90% of Kenya's population),
comprises about 29% of GDP :Ln constant prices, and generates over 60% of
export earnings. The average 1974-75 GNP per capita of the rural population
was about US$70, less than one-third of the national average; 40% of the
smallholder population earned less than US$50 per capita.
26.      Subsistence produce, consumed directly by farmers and their families,
makes up over 50% of total agricultural output. Maize is the major subsistence
crop, although it is produced on a commercial basis as well. Other subsistence
crops include millet, cassava, potatoes, plantains and bananas. Commercial
production for export focuses on coffee, tea, sisal, pyrethrum and wattle.
However, cashew nuts, pineapples, castor beans, coconuts and wool are becoming
increasingly important. Wheat, rice, sugar and cotton are produced largely
as cash crops, but are almost totally consumed within the country. While meat
and dairy products continue to be significant in subsistence agriculture, a
growing proportion of the livestock produced is marketed domestically or
exported.
27.       At the time of Independence, agricultural production in Kenya was
dominated by large-scale ho:Ldings and Government agricultural services were
geared towards servicing these farms. Since then, far greater emphasis has
been placed on promoting smallholder agriculture. Presently, there are about
2,700 large agricultural enterprises and about 1.5 million smallholdings
(holdings of up to 20 ha) and smallholder production now matches or exceeds
large farm production in terms of gross marketed value. The average small-
holding is about 2.3 ha, but some 30% of the holdings are smaller than 1.0 ha.
The majority of holdings are owner-operated and about 25% are managed by
women.



-8
28.       Agricultural development is the responsibility of a large number of
Government organizations and semi-public bodies. The Ministry of Agriculture
is primarily concerned with setting overall policy, including pricing policy
and providing general support services (such as research, extension and train-
ing). It also exercises control over a wide range of specialized production
and marketing boards and agencies. Other ministries, including Lands and
Settlement, Cooperative Development, Tourism and Wildlife, Natural Resources,
and Works, are responsible for providing a variety of services to the agricul-
tural sector.
Agricultural Development Strategy
29.       Over the past decade the Government has made impressive progress
in introducing cash crops to smallholders; over one-third of these can now be
characterized as relatively progressive. However, as noted above, average
rural income remains significantly below nationwide average income and even
within the small farm sector wide income disparities exist. Rapid population
growth has exacerbated the problems in the rural sector, particularly the
shortage of arable land, and has caused increasing migration to the cities.
In addition, the falling prices of Kenya's major agricultural exports, coupled
with the increased costs of farm inputs, reduced net farm incomes in the
early seventies.
30.       The Government adopted a three-pronged approach to address these
problems. First, it has improved production incentives through higher producer
prices. Second, it is attempting to strengthen the support institutions,
particularly the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Cooperative Develop-
ment and numerous marketing boards. Finally, it is improving basic infrastruc-
ture (water supplies, rural roads and health facilities) in rural areas to
reduce the gap between rural and urban service levels. The Government has
made relatively good progress in implementing its strategy: adequate produc-
tion incentives have generally been established; the planning capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture has been strengthened, and a number of projects are
being implemented which are aimed at improving the income and living conditions
of the rural poor. The Bank Group has supported the Government's pricing
policy and institution building efforts and is focusing a major portion of its
lending on projects that address the needs of the rural poor (para. 22 above).
The Sugar Subsector
31.       Background:  The commercial production of sugar in Kenya began
in the 1920s with the establishment of privately-owned factories at Ramisi
near the Coast and at Miwani in what is now the Sugar Belt of the Nyanza
Province. As the production at Ramisi and Miwani fell increasingly short of
domestic demand, and the cost of importing sugar escalated, other factories,
majority-owned by Government, were established in Muhoroni (1966) and Chemelil
(1968) in the Sugar Belt and in Mumias (1973) in Western Province. New
factories at Nzoia and in South Nyanza (the latter supported by Ln. 1389-KE)
are now under construction and are expected to become operational in late 1978
and 1980, respectively. While the Sugar Belt factories rely heavily on
outgrowers for their cane supplies, in Ramisi the factory's nucleus estate
comprises 85% of the cane area.



- 9 -
32.       Organization:  The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsi-
bility for sugar industry development and, through its representation on the
Boards of most factories, oversees the operation of a major part of the
industry. Under the Ministry, the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) was established
to promote the development of the sugar industry and to give advice to Govern-
ment. The National Irrigation Board (NIB) is responsible for large-scale
irrigation projects, including a pilot cane production project in the Sugar
Belt (para 58).
33.       The Ministry of Commerce and Industry determines import requirements
of sugar for household consumption, makes purchases abroad, and is responsible
for domestic distribution of both Kenyan production and imports through
the Kenya National Trading Corporation. This Corporation handles the physical
distribution of sugar to regional wholesale depots; local distribution is in
the hands of the private trade. Although this marketing system functioned
reasonably well in the past, improvements will be necessary, as recently
emerging marketing and storage problems will increase with higher domestic
sugar production.  These problems were identified in connection with the South
Nyanza Sugar Project (para. 31 above) and under that project the Government
agreed to submit a plan for improving the marketing and distribution system to
the Bank by December 31, 1978. This plan is presently under preparation.
34.       The Sugar Belt Cooperative Union (SBCU) provides credit to farmers
in the Sugar Belt through financing from the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK).
However, in this activity SBCU has accumulated substantial debt which now-
threatens its financial viability. As a step toward rectifying the situation,
the Government would review jointly with CBK and SBCU all of SBCU's loans to
farmers more than one year in arrears; subsequent to this review the Government
would cause SBCU to take whatever steps are necessary to recover those loans
from farmers when payment iis feasible (either directly or through a reschedul-
ing) and in those cases where the Government and SBCU conclude that repayment
is impossible, the Government would cause SBCU to write off the loans, SBCU's
debt to CBK would be correspondingly reduced and the Government would indemnify
CBK for their loss (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Govern-
ment would also ensure thal: SBCU would be adequately staffed to conduct this
review and that all necessary follow-up action would be completed by March 31,
1979 (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
35.       Government Development Strategy in Sugar:  In 1974 the Government
commissioned a sugar survey, financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing
agency, to formulate a strategy for the sugar subsector.  Given this survey s
conclusion that sugar can be produced for the domestic market in Kenya at
competitive prices, the Government adopted a long-term policy of achieving a
balance of domestic supply and demand. To accomplish this the Government has
decided to embark on a number of investments in new factories and to rehabi-
litate existing ones; while the South Nyanza Sugar Project is a major element
of the new investment program, the proposed project would finance the Govern-
ment's rehabilitation program.
36.       With the projects which have already been approved by the Government
(which includes the rehabi]Litation program), it is projected that there will
be a small surplus of sugar production over consumption from the mid to late



- 10 -
1980s. In view of this projection, and as studies have indicated that Kenya
could not be competitive with major sugar exporters, it is critical that the
timing and content of any further investments in sugar capacity in Kenya be
closely examined. The Government therefore intends to keep the projected
pro&'ition  c"1 oorsumption of sugar in Kenya under continuous review and to
furnish the Bank a report covering both the results of this review and its
plans for any further investments in sugar over the subsequent three year
period; the first report should be available by December 31, 1979 and sub-
sequent reports would be furnished annually until December 31, 1988. In
addition, the Government would inform the Bank promptly of any plans to
promote or invest in any substantial sugar milling facilities and afford the
Bank an opportunity to comment on such investments (Section 4.11 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
37.       Pricing Policy in Sugar.  All prices and margins for sugar and
sugarcane are fixed by the Government upon the recommendation of KSA and as
part of an annual agricultural price review.
38.       To provide production incentives to farmers and factories, the
Government increased sugarcane prices to KSh 133 per ton and ex-mill prices
to KSh 2,800 per ton in 1977. Under the South Nyanza Sugar Project, the
Government also agreed to adjust these prices by 6% in real terms in 1978 and
1979 to gradually reach the agreed 1977 target price of KSh 150 (Section
3.12(c) of the Loan Agreement for the South Nyanza Project). However, in
practice, this covenant has proved inappropriate: the Bank and the Government
recently reviewed sugarcane prices and came to the conclusion that present
sugarcane prices provide adequate production incentives to farmers. Reflect-
ing this experience and because the necessary rise in the price of sugarcane,
ex-mill sugar, wholesale sugar and retail sugar in the future cannot be
predetermined, the previously negotiated pricing clause would be replaced by a
clause reflecting the Government's intention to set producer and consumer
prices so that: (i) producers supply enough cane to ensure adequate capacity
utilization; (ii) the factories can earn reasonable profits after tax assuming
efficient operation; (iii) the margins allowed wholesalers and retailers are
adequate to earn reasonable profits assuming efficient operation; and (iv) the
demand for sugar is equated to domestic supply plus an acceptable level of
imports, provided that in setting ex-factory prices the Government will use
as a benchmark an appropriate average of the costs of importing sugar (Section
4.10(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government also intends to discuss
with the Bank how the criteria should affect existing prices before each
annual agricultural price review of sugar prices (Section 4.10(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
39.       Overall Performance and Bank Experience in the Subsector:  The
performance of the sugar industry has been below the Government's expecta-
tions for the past several years. A variety of general problems face the
industry: there have been inadequate support services, the labor supply has
been a problem, there have been severe transport difficulties, etc. Until
recently, low cane prices also discouraged farmers. In addition, the four
sugar companies to be supported under the project have faced the specific
problems associated with aging physical facilities; most of the proposed
project's investments have been designed to address the bottlenecks



- 11 -
facing these four sugar companies, and their operations should improve markedly
as a result of its implementation. Furthermore, the project includes general
sector support to KSA and the National Sugar Research Institute (NSRI) which
should lead to generally improved operations in the subsector as a whole.
Most important, however, the South Nyanza Project and this project have
provided an opportunity to discuss with the Government a number of issues
facing the entire sugar sector and agreements have been reached on measures to
address them. Examples of this are the steps required to solve SBCU's finan-
cial problem (para 34 above). Other general measures to improve sugar
operations are reviewed in Part IV of this report (paras 48 and 55).
40.       In March 1977, a loan of US$25.0 million (Ln. 1389-KE) was approved
to finance the South Nyanza Sugar Project. That project supports the develop-
ment of a 34,100 ha nucleus estate and 9,000 ha of outgrower land, a sugar
factory and related infrastructure. The loan was declared effective in
November 1977; senior project staff have been recruited and initial physical
progress has been satisfactory. The Bank Group has also been involved in
the sugar sector through a number of other projects. The first such involve-
ment was under the Agricultural (Sugar) Roads Project (Cr. 104-KE); this
project involved construction of about 790 km of sugar roads and was satis-
factorily completed by the end of 1971. Under the Fifth Highway Project
(Ln. 932-KE), the component providing for construction and improvement of 338
km of Mumias sugar roads was completed in 1975. There were initially some
problems with regard to maLintenance of these roads, but this matter has now
been satisfactorily resolved.  The Bank Group is also providing support to the
sugar sector through a sub-project approved under a loan to the Industrial
Development Bank (Ln. 1438-KE); implementation of the sub-project, which helps
finance establishment of aL new sugar factory at Nzoia and provision of support-
ing infrastructure, is almost completed.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       As noted above (para. 35), the rehabilitation of Kenya's sugar
sector was one of the priority investments recommended in the UNDP study.
As a result this proposed rehabilitation project was prepared by consultants
with the cooperation of the four sugar companies involved. The appraisal of
this project took place in April 1977, with post-appraisal missions in October
1977 and April 1978. Negotiations were held in Nairobi in October 1978 with
Mr. S. Gathiuni, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, leading
the Kenyan delegation. A Loan and Project Summary is given at the beginning
of this report. An Appra.isal Report entitled "Sugar Rehabilitation Project"
(No. 1887-KE of November ]L, 1978) is being distributed separately.
Project Objectives and Description
42.       The proposed project would support the rehabilitation and expansion
of four major sugar companies in Kenya:  Miwani Sugar Mills Limited in the
Miwani zone (Miwani), Chemnelil Sugar Company Limited in the Chemilil zone
(Chemelil), East African Sugar Industries Limited in the Muhoroni zone



- 12 -
(Muhoroni), and Associated Sugar Company Limited in the Ramisi zone (Ramisi).
While Miwani is 100% privately owned, Chemelil and Muhoroni are majority
Government owned. Presently, the shares of Ramisi are privately held, however
in connection with the project Government is expected to acquire a substantial
minority interest. The first three companies are located in the Sugar Belt in
Nyanza Province and Ramisi is located in the Coast Province. The rehabilita-
tion effort to be financed comprises an important component in the Government's
program for achieving self-sufficiencv in sugar production by the mid-1980s.
Project production would represent over 20% of Kenya's total sugar production
in the mid-1980s, resulting in significant foreign exchange savings, the full
utilization of the sugar factories of the four companies, more balanced
regional growth, and increased employment and farmers incomes.
43.       The program of rehabilitation would include the agricultural develop-
ment activities needed to ensure adequate cane production (including irrigation
and drainage infrastructure); rehabilitation and expansion of the factories of
three of the sugar companies; the reorganization of and technical support for
the management of all four companies; and the infrastructure required by the
four sugar companies. In addition, the project would finance a number of
support activities of the National Sugar Research Institute (NSRI) and the
Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) thereby aiding overall development of the sugar
subsector in Kenya.
Project Details
44.       Agricultural Investments:  This component of the project would
comprise a number of irrigation works including the establishment of run-of-
the-river schemes of 2,000 ha in the Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni zones
(including a small research scheme at Kibos); the conversion of 770 ha of an
existing irrigated rice area to irrigated sugarcane at Ahero; and the rehab-
ilitation of 370 ha and establishment of an additional 400 ha at Ramisi.
It would also finance the construction of drainage and related investment for
15,000 ha of nucleus estate and outgrowers' land in the Sugar Belt. Finally,
this project component would include substantial financing for agricultural
development activities, including the rehabilitation of existing cane lands
and establishment of new cane areas, improvements in cane harvesting and
transportation, and strengthening of the sugar companies' agricultural
research and training.
45.       Factory Rehabilitation and Expansion:  The project would rehabili-
tate and expand three of the four project factories (the Chemelil factory has
recently been rehabilitated and expanded and its present capacity is adequate
to handle its projected cane supplies under the project). This component
would include rehabilitation of existing facilities to ensure long-term
operational reliability and expansion of capacity to handle the projected cane
supplies. The capacity of the Miwani factory would be increased by 10%,
while Muhoroni's capacity would be increased by 20% and Ramisi's by 55%.
46.       General Management and Administration:  At present, the Chemelil,
Muhoroni and Ramisi sugar companies are operated by management firms, and
implementation of the parts of the project assigned to the companies would be



- 13 -
within the scope of existWing management agreements. Miwani is presently
operated by appointed management staff, and this arrangement would continue.
The sugar companies' general management and administration would be
strengthened through provision of office machines, equipment and furniture and
a total of 65 additional staff, 23 of whom would be at senior managerial and
administrative levels. Provision would also be made to cover part of the fees
charged by the firms supplying company management.
47.       Infrastructure:  The road network in the project area would be
improved and expanded under the project. The civil works construction
activities would include: tarmac surfacing of 24 km of classified roads
and of the factory access roads at Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni; upgrading
of about 200 km of classified roads and 54 km of unclassified roads; and
new construction of about 160 km of unclassified roads and 275 km of tracks,
bridges and crossings. lHousing and related infrastructure would be provided
for about 3,200 company staff. Other facilities to be constructed would in-
clude a dispensary and workers' club at Muhoroni and Ramisi, and other build-
ings for offices, storagie, garages, etc. at Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi.
48.       Sugar Sub-Sector Support:  The National Sugar Research Institute
(NSRI) would be reorganized and strengthened under the project through provi-
sion of additional personnel, equipment and facilities. A national cane
breeding program would be re-established at Mtwapa Research Station; liaison
and coordination with the sugar companies would be improved; a fully-equipped
agricultural training center would be established at Kibos to provide courses
for personnel of the sugar companies, cooperative societies and unions, and
Farmers Training Centers; and six NSRI staff, who would serve as instructors,
would attend training courses abroad. The Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) would
be the executing agency for four studies. These studies would determine the
viability of the extension of sugarcane production into the Nandi Hills,
complete the soils investigation in all project areas, conduct a groundwater
investigation in and around the Ramisi project area, and undertake topo-
graphical mapping of the entire Kano plains. The studies would be carried out
by consultants in cooperation with staff of KSA and the various Ministries
concerned. The project would also provide agricultural and extension training
abroad under KSA auspices.
Project Costs and Financing
49.       Total project costs are estimated at US$138.0 million equivalent;
net costs excluding taxes and duties are approximately US$128.4 million. The
project's foreign exchange component would total US$71.8 million, 56% of esti-
mated net costs. Details of project costs are presented in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
50.       The external financing of the project, consisting of a Bank loan
of US$72.0 million and a US$6.0 million loan from the African Development
Bank would finance 61% of project costs net of taxes and duties, including all
the foreign exchange costs and about US$6.2 million equivalent in local costs.
The African Development Bank Loan would be for 15 years including 6 years
of grace at 8.5% interest per annum (including both interest and the African
Development Bank's statutory commission) and would finance the cost of agri-
cultural machinery and workers' housing at Ramisi.



- 14 -
51.       Most of the Bank loan would be directly passed on to three of the
sugar companies: Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi. A large portion of the invest-
ments at Chemelil would be internally financed by that company, however
project funds are allocated for infrastructure investments there and it would
bene-it from the project investments in KSA and NSRI. Of the Bank Loan US$57.6
million would be passed on to three sugar companies: Miwani would receive
a loan of US$15.4 million; Muhoroni would receive a loan of US$15.8 million and
an equity contribution of US$3.4 million; and Ramisi would receive a loan of
US$21.1 million and an equity contribution of US$1.8 million. The funds onlent
to the companies would be passed on under subsidiary financing agreements
between the Government and each of the three companies involved; these sub-
sidiary financing agreements would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including an annual interest rate of 10.5% for 20 years with 5 years
of grace to Muhoroni and Miwani and 8 years of grace to Ramisi (Section
3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). 1/ The companies would bear the foreign
exchange risk on direct foreign expenditures. The disbursement of funds to
each of the three sugar companies would be conditional on the signing of the
subsidiary financing agreement between the Government and the individual
company (Schedule 1, para. 4(b)-(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition,
the disbursements of funds to Ramisi would be conditional on the conversion to
equity of an acceptable portion of both its existing parent company loan and
reserves while the disbursement of funds to Miwani and Muhoroni would be
conditional on the conversion to equity of their reserves (Schedule 1, para.
4(b)-(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The remaining US$14.4 million in Bank
funds would be utilized by the Government and various government agencies to
finance infrastructure, irrigation at Ahero, research activities and studies;
these funds would be passed on to the relevant authorities on a grant basis.
52.       The companies would contribute a total of US$46.9 million equivalent
toward total project costs: Miwani would provide US$8.5 million; Chemelil
US$14.9 million; Muhoroni US$14.3 million; and Ramisi US$9.2 million. The
balance of total project costs would be financed by Government (US$13.1
million including taxes and duties).
Project Implementation
53.       As project implementation would proceed in parallel with the
companies' ongoing operations, attention has been focused on both project
implementation requirements and necessary operational improvements. The
four sugar companies would be responsible for implementing, in their respec-
tive zones, the project's agricultural development, factory and management
investments; company research and training; staff housing and improvement of
unclassified smallholder roads and tracks. The obligations of the companies
1/   Inflation rates in Kenya (defined as increase in the GDP deflator) have
risen from an annual rate of about 13.5% in 1975 to 15.7% in 1976 and
19.6% in 1977. The inflation rate is expected to moderate over the next
three years from about 15% in 1978 to about 10% in 1980.



- 15 -
detailed in Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement would be undertaken by them
in Letter Agreements with the Bank; execution of these Letter Agreements would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). In order to ensure continuation of sound management of the
four companies, it is expected that their present management contracts (para
46) would remain in effect during project implementation, and none of the
companies would enter into, renew or amend any management contract without
first giving the Bank the opportunity to comment thereon (Schedule 4, para.
2(h) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the Bank would be consulted
on the appointment or replacement of key staff in the companies directly
receiving loan proceeds (Schedule 4, para. 2(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       Under the project, the organizational structure of the sugar com-
panies would be changed to increase their efficiency. In particular, consider-
able attention has been directed at improving company-outgrower relationships.
The general framework of the intended revisions in the company-outgrower rela-
tionship is outlined in Schedule 4, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement. In
addition, the project would also support improvements in the relationship
between cooperative unions/societies and outgrowers. In order to improve the
performance of the unions and societies the Ministry of Cooperative Development
would provide the training and other assistance required to enable the coopera-
tives to meet their obligations under the project (Section 4.05(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Two specific problems which negatively affected cane production
in the past were the uncertain levels of production in areas owned by absentee
landlords in the Sugar Settlement Scheme 1/ and the availability of labor gener-
ally. To address the first problem the Government would: (i) carry out a
census to identify absentee landowners and their interest in entering into
cane growing contracts; (ii) by September 30, 1979 prepare a plan for allocat-
ing responsibilities and costs of cultivation in plots owned by absentee
landowners aimed at identifying ways of ensuring consistent and higher levels
of cane production in these areas; and (iii) take whatever action is necessary
to carry out this plan (Section 4.06(a)-(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
second problem of labor supply difficulties would be addressed through improved
employment conditions. To provide the basis for this it was agreed that the
Ministry of Labor would collaborate with KSA and the trade unions in a study
of the factors influencing the supply of cane labor. In order to ensure an
adequate supply of such labor to each of the companies, a plan of labor supply
acceptable to the Bank would be prepared by December 31, 1979, following
completion of the study (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). This plan
would take into account such considerations as appropriate wage policies,
living conditions, extra lbenefits, etc.
1/   A settlement scheme established at Muhoroni in 1964, covering 21,000 ha
of agricultural land cultivated by some 3,000 settlers; about 5,700
ha are planted to cane.



- 16 -
56.       Consultants would be employed to design and supervise construction
of housing and social facilities; the design standards and construction
methods for all the structures involved would be satisfactory to the Bank
(Schedule 2, Part F(4) of the draft Loan Agreement). The companies would
maintain the sugar roads and drainage works within their zones; an agreement
satisfactory to the Bank would be reached between the Government and each
company by December 31, 1979 specifying the infrastructure that would be
maintained and the standards to which it would be maintained (Section 4.07(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The companies would be reimbursed for the
maintenance expenditures on roads and drainage by a Roads and Drainage Main-
tenance Fund (RDMF), which KSA would establish. The RDMF would receive funds
from a levy on sugar and funds would be disbursed to the companies after
satisfactory work performance had been certified by the relevant Government
officials (Section 4.07(b)-(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Consultants under KSA would review the rehabilitation and expansion
plans and design of each company. No loan funds would be lent to any of
the three companies for these activities until KSA has approved the relevant
plans and designs (Schedule 2, Part D(4) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation of the drainage component and the irrigation schemes at Kibos,
Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi would be supervised by consultants appointed
and supervised by KSA. KSA would also act as executing agency for all the
studies proposed under the project, conduct staff training and oversee the
RDMF (para. 56 above). Finally, KSA is working with other involved parties
in redefining the limits of the areas (zones) allocated to individual com-
panies for the supply of sugar cane. Because of the uneven expansion of cane
production in the recent past, the zones supplying individual factories are
not designed for efficient transport. Changes in the factory zones would not
be undertaken without first obtaining the Bank's views on the proposed changes
(Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
58.       The conversion of the Ahero pilot scheme to sugarcane would be
undertaken by NIB. After construction, NIB would supervise the operation
of the Ahero scheme and collect water charges as appropriate. Over a reason-
able period of time NIB would endeavor to recover all costs and earn a reason-
able return on capital expenditures related to the project's irrigation
component (Section 4.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The Ministry of Works would be responsible for the construction of
new and upgrading of existing classified roads in all areas, of unclassified
roads in large-farm areas, of all roads in Chemelil zone, and for the cons-
truction of bridges and other major structures. Engineering consultants
would be appointed if the Ministry's staff is unable to undertake these tasks
(Schedule 2, Part F(1) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Covenants
60.       To ensure that the three companies receiving proceeds directly from
the Bank loan have adequate financial structures, their financial resources



- 17 -
and future financial requirements were analyzed in detail. From this analysis
an assessment was made of acceptable debt/equity ratios and current ratios
for each of the companies. The commitments to maintain satisfactory ratios
and a number of related financial conditions are described in detail in
Schedule 4, para. 3 of the draft Loan Agreement. In addition, while the
financial analysis indicated that all the companies' annual cash flows will
be adequate during the rehabilitation periods, short-term cash deficits may
occur. To address this potential problem the Government would arrange for
seasonal working capital financing if any of the companies could not secure
the funds from commercial lenders (Section 3.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Except as described in para. 62 below, materials, vehicles and equip-
ment estimated to cost US$100,000 and above (totalling about US$29.0 million)
would be procured through international competitive bidding, following Bank
guidelines; orders would be bulked to the extent possible. Qualified local
manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of 15% or the existing rate
of duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid comparison. Civil works
contracts for the construction of houses and social amenities (US$7.3 million),
irrigation and drainage (US$13.2 million) and roads under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Works (US$2.9 million) would be procured through inter-
national competitive biddiLng except for contracts or items costing less than
US$200,000. For purposes of bid comparison, a preference of 7-1/2% would be
applied to bids from qualified local civil works contractors. Contracts for
materials, vehicles and equipment below US$100,000 and civil works contracts
below US$200,000 would be procured in accordance with local procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank.
62.       Because of their scattered locations, the construction of access
roads and tracks under the responsibility of the companies (US$3.7 million)
would be either undertaken by the companies with their own equipment and staff
or carried out by local contractors selected under local procurement procedures.
In view of the need to relhabilitate and expand the plants at the same time as
they are in operation, the companies would rehabilitate and expand existing
factory equipment and facilities (US$4.5 million) with their own equipment and
staff and local contractors as required. Land preparation, cane planting
operations, and field maintenance (US$6.0 million) would be carried out by the
sugar companies with their own equipment and staff; this is viewed as the most
efficient approach.
63.      Under the project a variety of consultants and architects would be
required to assist the companies and/or the Government in project imple-
mentation. To the extent they are hired pursuant to the draft Loan Agreement
or financed by the loan, they would have qualifications and experience and be
hired on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The average cost of consultancy services is
estimated to range from US$2,000 to US$6,000 per manmonth depending on the
source of supply and type of service to be provided.
64.       The loan would be disbursed over a period of 6 years against the
following costs for the relevant sugar companies: (i) 100% of the foreign



- 18 -
expenditures for agricultural vehicles and equipment, office machines and
furniture; 90% of the local cost when purchased locally; (ii) 100% of the
foreign expenditures for imported sugar factory machinery and equipment and
factory consultants' fees; 90% of the local cost when purchased or hired
'oc:I'y; (iii) 9C&O of total expenditures for irrigation; (iv) 90% of total
expenditures for houses and social facilities; (v) 90% of total expendi-
tures for access roads and tracks in smallholder areas, excluding factory
entrance roads; (vi) 90% of total expenditures for land preparation, cane
planting operations, field maintenance and incremental fertilizers; and (vii)
100% of the foreign expenditures for company staff training and incremental
salaries; 90% of the cost of local staff training and of staff hired locally.
65.       For those components to be implemented by the Government of Kenya
funds would be disbursed against: (i) 50% of total expenditures for roads,
bridges, and other related structures; (ii) 90% of total expenditures for
irrigation at Ahero and Kibos; (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles,
equipment, furnishings; incremental salaries, staff training; and works-for
NSRI; 90% of local expenditures for such items; (iv) 100% of the foreign
expenditures for KSA's staff training and studies conducted locally; 90% of
local expenditures; and (v) 90% of total expenditures for drainage works, and
related costs.
66.       Retroactive financing of US$4.8 million from the Bank loan is
recommended for specified expenditures incurred after November 1, 1977.
These funds would finance some preliminary studies, the purchase of urgently
needed vehicles and equipment, and the construction of houses. This longer
than usual period reflects the fact that the project has been delayed to
enable the Government and the Bank to review a number of issues (particularly
cane and sugar prices and projected production) in detail; during the interim
the companies have been proceeding with investments using short-term borrowings.
Accounts and Evaluation
67.       Accounts geared to producing adequate cost control and management
information related to all of their operations would be kept by each of the
sugar companies. As part of the revised company outgrower arrangements,
the sugar companies would also maintain the credit accounts for individual
outgrowers. Accounts would be kept for KSA, NSRI and all other government
agencies involved in project implementation. The accounts of the sugar
companies would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; the
provisional accounts would be submitted to the Bank within four months and the
final accounts and audit reports within six months of the close of their
fiscal year (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Separate project
accounts would be maintained by KSA, NSRI and the relevant sugar companies and
they would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; the
accounts and audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of their respective fiscal years for KSA and NSRI, and within four
months for the sugar companies (Section 4.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Ecology
68.       All project activities would be carried out with due regard to
the environment. In partic:ular, all factories are in the process of install-
ing additional effluent treatment facilities to comply with Govern-ent stand-
ards. The development of new cane areas and construction of roads and
housing facilties is not excpected to have any adverse environmental effects.
However, because of the more rapid evacuation of rainfall from the project
area as a result of the drainage scheme to be developed under the project,
the effects of the periodic temporary floodings near Lake Victoria could
be marginally aggravated. While this is judged not to pose an unacceptable
risk, to lay the framework for dealing with the Kano plains flooding problem
the Government would prepare, before June 30, 1982, a regional drainage and
development plan for the wlhole Kano plains (Schedule 2, Part H(4) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
69.       The proposed project would reduce Kenya's dependence on imported
sugar and, by developing areas which have been neglected or underutilized,
would generate employment for smallholders, raise the incomes of government
and privately controlled sugar companies and promote balanced regional
economic growth. The 109,000 metric tons per annum increase in sugar pro-
duction under the project at full development (and related decrease in
imports) would save Kenya over US$30.0 million in net foreign exchange annu-
ally. The project would increase incomes for about 10,800 smallholder families
by 25% to 190% as well as incomes of a number of larger farmers. The sugar
factories' return on their existing investments would also be improved and one
thousand wage paying employment opportunities would be created.
70.       The financial rates of return to project investments would range
from 16% at Ramisi to 34% at Miwani. The project's overall internal economic
rate of return is estimated to be 33% over a 25-year period; if benefits
accruing to non-Kenyans from their share of equity ownership in the four
companies were deducted, the rate of return would be 29%. All project costs
except 25% of the costs of roads and tracks, 60% of the cost of the NSRI
component and 65% of the cost of the KSA component have been included in these
calculations (the excluded costs represent about 5% of total project cost).
The economic rate of return for the individual factories is estimated at 39%
for Miwani, 37% for Chemelil, 35% for Muhoroni and 24% for Ramisi. The rate
of return attributable to drainage would be 38%; and the rate of return
attributable to new irrigation in the sugar belt would be 46%.
Risks
71.       Existing problems in the sugar subsector have led to underutilization
of past sugar investments. In addition, there is a potential risk if the
Government or private investors make further investments in sugar beyond this
and ongoing projects: because additional investment could lead to a surplus



- 20 -
over domestic demand and Bank analysis indicates that Kenya would not be com-
petitive as a major exporter, the Government could face the difficult decision
of having either to subsidize exports or discourage production through lowering
cane prices; the latter alternative could jeopardize project investments.
72.       Measures would be taken to address these risks.  Considerable effort
has gone into improving company-smallholder relations; steps will be taken
under the project to increase the ability of the companies to assist outgrowers,
to clarify the arrangements under which outgrowers operate and to strengthen
the institutions assisting the outgrowers. In addition, measures will be
taken to deal with the issues of absentee owners and the labor shortage. In
respect to further investments, the Government has informed us that it has
made no firm commitment to any additional sugar investment and that it will
consult annually with the Bank on its plans in the future. The steps taken
appear to address the potential risks adequately.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73,       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, draft Letter Agreements between the Bank and each of the sugar companies
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
74.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are given
in Section III of Annex III to this report. Execution of the Letter Agree-
ments between the Bank and each of the sugar companies would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Conditions
of disbursement for the individual companies would be: (i) signing of an
agreement between the Government and the company concerned covering investment
and onlending terms; and (ii) conversion into equity of all or part of the
existing parent company loan at Ramisi and reserves at Miwani, Muhoroni and
Ramisi (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November17, 1978



ANNEX I
-21-
ENA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Km.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            582.6                                                  SAME        SAMN     NEXT HICHER
AGRICULTURAL      99.2                                MOST UCENT      CEOGRAPHIC   IJCOME       INCOME
1960  1b    1970 Lb ZSTIMATE jb      REGION 14   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$'                 100.0       160.0    270.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0     174.0            86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        8.3        11.2       14.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.3         9.9      13.0            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        19.0      25.0            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     84.0       113.0     145.0            53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0 .L,,t  48.4      46.5            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        49.2 ,g   48.0        50.9             52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.8   A    3.6        2.6             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWRTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.1       3.5             2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.5       6.1             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.5        49.0      48.7           .46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.8        17.0      16.0            20.6       19.7        12.4
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4       3.3             3.1        2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WEN)    ..           2.2       ..              2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            101.0       100.0      83.2            94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                  103.0        98.0      91.0            90.1       92.3        ".5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          75.0        71.0      59.6            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0      22.8            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       ..         1.9        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.5        49.1      50.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0          ..     129.0           138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0      17.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..       100.0    100.0             66.3       63.5        68.5
RumAL                               ..         2.0       4.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0      55.0            23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..        85.0      98.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..        45.0      48.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         101S4.01lf-h  7810.0  5800.0 ti,h    21757.5    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    :290.O/f ,h  1470.0h  1300.0 /fh       3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.OLf     770.0    760.0 L          645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..            172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..           1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..         ..            19.2       19.5        19.2
BOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..        4.7        ..              4.9        5.2
URBAN                               ..         4.7       ..              5.0        4.8
12URAL                             ..          4.7                       4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..
URBAN                              2.5/f       ..        ..              ..         1.8         2.3
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITE (PEZCZNT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                               *.                    .-             .-       25.9        28.3
URBAN                                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        8.7        10.3



- 22-                                                ANNEX I
KMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEIE
REFERENcE CREOPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SANE        SAME     NEMT HIGHER
MUST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOE        INCOKE
1960 A      1970 A  ISTIATE Lb      REGIOE Lc  GROUP Ld   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEt;r RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                47.0        64.0      109.0            52.1       62.9        75.8
TEALE                30.0        53.0     101.0            37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0 1.      9.0      13.0             8.0       14.4        17.7
FDKALE                2.0         5.0      10.0             5.0        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF StCONDARY) 12.0 Li      2.0       2.0             7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACERM RATIO
PRIMARY                          42.0         34.0      33.0            43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDAXY                         15.0       21.0      24.0             22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        30.0      40.0            20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        8.0          9.0      10.0             3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                        9.0         48.0      40.0            40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER TEOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         1.5       3.0             2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 13.0        14.0       8.0             3.9        6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0         ..        ..              1.2        1.4         1.6
DiPILOYMENT
TOTAL LABO0 FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3300.0      5100.0   6100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.8        33.6 0    33.3            32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             85.8        90.0 L   84.0 la          73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                5.1         7.1        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               41.2        40.6      39.2            42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                                54.5        53.8      52.3            54.8       53.3        50.3
FEMALE                              26.2        21.4      26.1            27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.1       1.1             1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        20.2       *.             25.7       20.3        19.5
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        52.6 /      ..            55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.9 n      ..             5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        11.7 /      ..            14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UP.AN                               ..         ..      122.0           108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                              ..          ..       93.0            74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..      144.0           124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      78.0            59.6       42.0        87.3
IST IMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOtfE LEVEL (PERCENT)
UR8AN                               ..          ..      25.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      60.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
got available
Not applicable.
VOTMS
/a The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aong the
Indicators depends on availability of data end is not uniform.
/b Unles. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yeer between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. betveen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;  L/  Low Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);  le Lwer Middle Incom
(9281-550 per capita. 1976);    f 1962;  JA  B^asd an complete enumerstion of non-Afrtcan population,
and on a 10 percent sample of rural African population age 0-14, 15-59 & 60 years and over respectively;
ah  Registered, not all practicing in the country;   A   1972;  /I  Including teacher training at the
third level;  1k Labor force age 15-50 yeara;   A  Labor force age 15-50;  In  staff estimate;
1n urban only.
September, 1978



- 23 -                                                                ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Sot:  The adjuoted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
cc  l.J-  n, roa  group.  Loerago of countries among the indicators depends no availability of data and is not uniform.  Doe to lack of data,
fr     .     -- avera ge- ,rt Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indic.ators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple papulatcon-weighted geometric moons without the exclusion of extreme values.
1r ND M1_'A (thousan.d st . m)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Iteral    otal our-.ce area omaprisir.g land area and island waters.                       urban, and rural) divided by their renpective nusber of hospital beds
dgricaitural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
1ie f.lllow.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP fER CAFPTA (USS) '- GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same c-nversion netiod 0s World Baok Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sisant., nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of comm:ercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent par capita.                    HOUSING
Ave-ge siee of household (persons per household) - total, arbas, and rural-
POPULATION AbD VITALSTATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available.                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
avarage of twa end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                   Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per _q. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, asd rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), warking-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Ponulutirn growth rate (perceot) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrolloent of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per rhousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal eds-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crae death rte (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending In 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Grons reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually ot 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproduotive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students esrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corrt-
Family planning - users (percent of  arried women) - Percentage of                         spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over,
FOOD AND NLITRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Lidexoo  toad production per capita (lY70-iOo) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quice.ents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
.al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and se. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to re-ording general news.  It is considered to
a mnimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least foor times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 13 grams should be animal protein.             Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
PAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and subs - Protein supply of food               EMPLiYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - EoonomicaIly active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (Per thousand) - AnnuaL deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age gioup.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
EEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (yeats) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as Percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are  LO's adjusted participation rates reflecting oag-sea
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     stroct-re of tho ppulation. ond long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratic - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
un-ontamintaed water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in ago group of 15-64 yesos.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private Income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
son.able access of that house.  Tn rural areas reasoaable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eacretr  disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute sorerry income level (iS$ per capita) - urban and rural -
roral - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) setved by excreta                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below whIch a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal cay include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordabl.
treatment, of human escreta aud waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relativt   poverty incom.e level (USS per capita) - urban and rura  -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income lyeal is that income Jevel less than one-third
Poplu'.tion pei phsician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
phyi,icfns qualified tiro  a medical school at university level.                     Eitimated population below potorty mns level (percentj - urban and rural -
Pulatn per nrsig person - Population divided by number of                                   Percent of population  ('.rban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant -urses.
Econiric and Social Data Divisi-n
Enonomic Analysis and Prci-0ions Department



- 24 -
Annex I
KEhNYA
Erenemic OevlonePert Dat Sheet
Actual                   P-elimin-y                           Projectd                                   Averare AnulRaeo  C-ut             17
1972      1973       1974       1975i      1976       1977      1978       1979       1980       1989        1990      1967-;0 1972-76 1976-85 1995-90  Share
A.  National Aic.. nts
(Millon US$ at 1972 Price)
I.  CDP                             2022.6    2155.8    2258.3    2272.7    2390.2    2510.5    2662.5    2824.9    2997.1    4052.7             5543.7       6.7      4.3     6.1      6.5    100.0
2   Calns fro-  TT                     ..       -94.6     -73.6    -105.0       -72.2      102.H       17.1       -8.1     -33.9    -112.6       -163.2         .       .        .        .      -3.0
3   CDY                             2022 6    2061.2    2184.6    2167.7    2318.0    2613.2    2679.9    2816.8    2963.2    3940.2             5380.8       6.9      3.5     6.1      6.4      97.0
4.   mport                           605.2      587.1      665.8     508.4      920.5      668.6      758.0      781.2     826.3    1015.8       1216.3       8.3    .3.7       7.7     5.3      21.8
5.  Bport- - VoIce                   560 3      655.6     621.9      565.9      599.5      639.0      679.6     723.5      768.0    1031.8       1401.1       6.0      1.7     6.2      6.3      25.1
6.  teuprts - CT ad-7sted            560.3      560 8      548.2     460.9      527.2      741.7      698.6      715.4     734.4      919.0       1238.2      6.7    -1.5       6.4     6.1      22.1
Resource C -OFT adjsted             44.9       26.3      117.6      47.3       -6.7      -73.1       61.3  . 63.5         91.8       96.9        79.1                                           0    .3
8.  Total ConIrespncuc              1620 8    1681.2    1736.5    1832.3    1893.9    1919.4    2123.8    2240.0    2384.5    3121.7             4234.4       6.7      4.0      5.7     6.3      79.2
9.  [roa-:eem                        446.8      406.1      409.8     400.4      417.3      620.8      617.4     642.3      670.9      915.3      1224.4      10.2    -1.7       9.1     6.0      17.5
10. Rational Ssvi s3                 379.2      292.9     379.8      267.6      353.9      632.0      501.5     016.6      514.9      721.0      1006.3      12.3    -1.7      8.2      6.9      14.8
11  De-sIc Ia:icgs                   401.8      380.0     448.1      335.4      424.1      694.1      556.1      576.8     579.0      818.4      1146.3       7.8      1.4      7.6     7.0      17.7
12. GDP *t turrer: .SS              2022.6    2362.6    2850.7    3155.5    3410.1    4028.2    4699.4    5359.7    6084.2   11539.7    22139.3              16.8    13.9    14.5    13.9
8. Sec-or O-rPut
(Shar- of CDP n 1972 Prices)
1.  industry                          21.3       21.9       21.8       21.9      22.8       23.3       23.8       24.0       24.2      25.3         27.2      7.8      5.5      7.0      8.0
2,  Agricu-lure                       32.7       31.4       30.7       30.4       29.6      29.3       29.0       28.9       28.7       28.0        27.2       5.6     1.3      1.6      5.8
3.  Ser-ice                           46.0       46.6       47.6       47.7      47.6       47.2       47.2       47.2       47.1       46.6        45.0       7.5     4.7      6.0      6.0
C. Prices
1.  Boret Price  cds                 100.0      117.5      149.4     171.2      187.7      242.9      226.7     236.8      244.4      322.6       450.1         .     17.1      4.9      6.9
2.  Imporc prior ;cdec               100.0      120.6      173.0     203.1      196.1      209.3      221.1      239.5     255.6      362.1       509.3         .     19.4      7.4      7.1
3S  Tee  of Trade                    100.0       97.4      86.4       84.3       95.7      116.1      102.5       98.9      95.6       89.1        88.4
4.  CDP Defl-tor <SSI                100.0      109.6      126.2      138.8     142.7      160.5      176.3      189.7     203.0      284.7       399.4         .      9.3    .7.1       7.0
5.  Aue-age  E-chsge Rate
(U1S/Kf)                           2.80      2.85       2.80       2.70       2.40
D.  Selected Indicators            1965-70   1972-76   1976-85   1985-90
1.  IcOn                               5.0        4.5        3.6        3.5
2.  Impont El-ticity                   '.0       -0.8       1.1        0.8
3   Average D.seecic S-cge ROte   19.0           18.5       20.9      21.1
4.  Av-ra-e  tltrocul Sacirgi Rare   18.6        16.1      19 0        18.5
5.  Mrtn l N-tio-al Svings Rat  22.0             -9.3       22.9       20.3
6.  I pocts/ODP                       29.8       26.2       26.5      24.5
ILr-reeeet/GDY                    20.3       19.4      22.7       23.1
8 I Resource Cp -DY                    0.7        2.3        2.4        2.0
Ar. 8anoa
E.  Beplonn. t                       1970       1975       1976    1970-76
1.  Labor Force Total                        6.400000       .
2   age  1.plytstt                 644 500    819,100   857 200    4.92
F   Public Flnance                                                                                                       Peer.
(Kf Million)                     1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77
1.  R.cur.e.t Revenues                 97.9       124.0       141.6       149.0       190.1      226.1       269.3       311.8
2.  R current tupepdicures             99.4       110.4       128.7       139.6       163.7       207.2      245.4       295.0
3.   o      current Surplus            +8.4       +13.5       +12.9        +9.4       +26.3      +18.9       +23.9       +16.8
4   Derelopnst Pro(ect
E rni.gs & Other
mliseellas.ous . ec-lptr            0.4         0.4         0.4         0.6         0.6        0.4 4                   _
5.  Foreign Crote                       1.4         0.8         1.8         0.3         3.5         6.6         7.6        18.1
6. Surplus Avallavie for
Ft _ncing Decelopeent
E5pendiruces                       10.3        14.7        15.1        10.5       30.4        25.4        31.5        35.9
7.  De oloperet Eparditucee            32.1        46.5        51.9        61.8        66.4        94.2      127.7       1S8.9
S.  Ov-r-ll Deficit                   -ZL8        .317        -36.8       -51.3       -36.0       69.8       -96.2      -f
9. Firertiod of the Deficit:
-Etern  l Loans                  10.8        10.9        11.5       24.7        14.4        22.0        43.1        41.1
Doreec ic .
Loni-ter-  -orreving           13.6         8.1        15.6       21.3        18.9        15.5        52.8        25.0
0h6ct-ter  So-ronin;            5.1        11.0         1.1        6.8        -2.9        12.7        32.5        20.6
w-nt.                           0.05        0.03       0.02        0.02        _           0.04
0Cargee in Cash ralence-
lIncrease .1                    -7.8       -2.4        -8.5        +1.5        -5.6       -18.1      +32.2       -26.3
e1,N4 CPI-A
Febrry  13, 1978



-25-
KENYA                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An.e. I
Balance of paytents and External Am.fstgauc
(Million US$)
1972        1973         1974         1975         1976        1977         1978         1979         1980          1983          1990
A. S-ary of  la.ance of Payment.
1.  Export. (incl. NFS)                      560.0        698.IS      1005.5      1038.7       1147.5       1552.4       1540.6       1713.5       1877.2        3328.2       6306.4
2.  IEports (in-1. NFS)                      632.C        752.11      1237.3       1161.3      1149.4       1399.3       1676.0       1870.5       2112.1        3678.7        6704.4
3. Resource Blnce                            -72.0        -54.0      -231.8       -122.6         -1.9        153.1       -135.4       .157.0      _234.8         -350.6        -398.0
4. Net Facton Service Income                 -34.1       -101.9       -101.1      -113.4       -113.8       -129.6       -124.1       -143.5       -165.5        -325.1        -630.3
4:1 Sot In.tr-et FPyments tf ohfchh          -20.1       --21.9        -24.6        -23.9       -22.5        -37.6        .29.1        -39.0        -50,6        -140.0        -332.1
(Interest on Publi M 6 LT Lons)    ( -14.5)    ( -16.3)    ( -18.2)    ( -19.6)    ( .22.5)    ( -33.0)    ( -41.3)    ( -53.2)    ( -67.9)                 (-159.3)      (-362.2)
4.2 Direct In-emtment Inco=e (Net)    )
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)            )    -14.0        -80.0        -76,5        -87.5       -91.3        -92.0         95.0       -104.3       -115.0        -185.1        -298.2
4.4 Other Focter Service Inco,ne (Net)
5.  Current Transftrs (Net)                   38.1         22.2         19.3         18.4        15.3   .    20.0          20.0         20.0         25.0          25.0          25.0
6.  Balance on Current Ac-onnt               -68.0       -133.1       -313.6      -217.6       -100.4         43.5       -239.5       -280.5       -37           -650.7       -.Q(2
7.  PFr-ite Direct lvesteant                 34.1         74.7        123.8         42.9        42.9         48.0         53.8         60.3         67.5         119.0         209.7
8.  Capital GrantL                            39.5         39.4         69.9         39.4        40.0         60.0         64.2         68.7         73.5         103.1         144.6
Pu6bl.  M & LT                                                        .770-.1560.2
9 Diburaemento 6-.7                                    67.3        74.6         87.7        185.5        255.t        245.6        270.1        29S.5         704.3
I Aoo. tlotlon -                            -10.4        -12.6        -13.8       -13.1        -19.7        -32.5        -42.8        -47.1        -69.9        -231.3        -813.3
11. Net Diaburse..ents!/                      58.3         55.2         60,8         74.6       165.8        223.2        202.8        223.0        226.6         473.0         746.9
Other M & LT L1..0
12. Mib.ursenentl ';                          10.5         -5.6         22.7        24.8         14.5          9.0         -.9           1.6          0.8           0.0           0.0
13. At                                        -.7          -5.5         -3.7         -4.0        -7.7         -0.9         -6.4         -.           -6.0          -6.7          -7.4
14. Net Dibur.e4enta-                          4.S          31          19.0        20.S          6.8          0.1         -0.5         -4.9         -6.0          -6.7          -7.4
15  Use of IMr R.esorceo.,3                    0.0         -0.6         53.5         51.6        18.9        -35.0        -35.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
16. Short-terr  Capital Trenactions            5.6         15.1         31.1         31.9        33.2         15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0          31.8          36.9
17. Capital Trnsactions. n.e.i               -49.1        -31.8        -74.2        -27.7       -88.4            _ _ _                                       -                    -
18. Change in Reserves (- - increase)        -25.2        -31.4         29.7       -15.9       -118.8       -334.9        -60.8        -81.5         -3.2        -69.5        -127.5
B. Grants and Loans Co-ttnents
i.  official Cranta41                         39.5         39.4         69.9         39.4        40.0
2.  Public M & LT L.rac                       99.4        102.7        170.1'      373.2        217.6
2.1  IBRO                                     29.0         34.0         10.4        193.5        31.0
2.2  IDA                                      28.0          ..          33.5         25.5        14.0
2.3  Othor Multilateral                         ..          1.1          3.6          7.2        10.8
2.4  Go-er-nents                              22.7         66.0        122.6         76.0        33.6
of ,hich centrally
planned economits                       -            0.3          -            -           -
2.5  Suppliera                                 2.3          -.           -          47.5         65.8
2.6  FInnclIal Institutions                   17.3          1.,6         -            8.4        56.6
2.7  gonds                                     _            _. -                      -            -
2.8  Public LO."n   a.e.1.                      _           -,           _           15.0         5.8
3.  Other M 6 LT Loans (vhbre available)-   33.0           23.2          6.9          3.6         7.5
C. Memoranduo  Items
_                 u~~~~~~/
1. Grant Element of Total ComitmentA          45.5         45.4         66.0         23.8        21.0
2. Av-rago Inter-ct (Percent)                  4.1          4.2          2.1          6.7          6.6
3. Av-rage Maturity (years)                   29.2         28.6         36.4        24.6          18.1
1/ Includes finncing of projected balance of paynents defIcit (1977-1990) by .cppliers' credits.
R/ epRe.ents disburse-ent *nd repaynent of lomno for EAC projects of which Kenya's share is a notional 507.
3/ Net of araving" end "Repayent by Purchase".
4/ Excludes Technical Assistance gronts.
5' For 1972-76 reprs.ents a notional 503, of loan .-sitments tor EAC projects.
6/ For 1972-76 represents only grant element of Io.n...
EAN, CPI-A
February 7, 1978



- 26 -
KeNYA                                    Annex I
Debt and Creditworthiness-/
Actual
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977
A.  Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt outstanding 1DOD:  End of Period)V         441.6     514.5      602.8     656.8      807.9    1029.8
2.  Including Undisburse                                  674.3      787.9     958.7    1235.0    1401.0    1537.4
3 .Public Debt Service                                     36.3      39.9       42.1       43.0      57.7       82.4
3.1 Interest                                               20.2      21.7       24.5       25.9      30.3       41.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service
2/
B.  Debt Burden 
1   Debt Service Ratio                                      6.5        5.7       4.2        4.1       5.0        5.3
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                        1.8        1.9       1.9        1.9       2.4        2.0
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                  8.9        8.3       7.2        6.4       8.3
C   Terms-/
1.  Interest on Total DOD/TotalDOD                          4.6       4.2        4.1        3.9       3.8        4.0
2   Total Debt Service/Total DOD                            8.2        7.8       7.0        6.5       7.1        8.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt-/
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                12.5       11.5       7.9        9.7      17.4       18.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                       10.0        9.1       6.4        8.2      15.0       16.0
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                       79.7       79.0      82.0       84.8      86.3       84.4
1/
E. Exposure-
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           34.6      38.5       23.8      53.5       38.8      20.0
2   Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  42.0         55.6       35.4      59.5       45.6      27.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                     16.2      19.9       20.6      27.7       31.5      29.4
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD              2/               26.1      32.2       32.9      40.1       43.2      40.5
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service-                  14.6      19.3       21.6      27.2       38.2      29.4
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service2/           15.4      20.6       22.8      28.6       39.6      30.6
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Amount         Percent
3/                             (US$ Million)
F. External Debt (Disbursed only)-
1.  IBRD                                                               169.5            25.6
2.  Bank Group                                                         264.1            39.9
3.  other Multilateral                                                  10.3              1.6
4   Covernments                                                        299.8            45.3
of which centrally planned economies                               0.2              -
5.  Suppliers                                                           35.9             5.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                              21.5             3.2
7.  Bonds                                                               18.4             2.8
8.  Public debt, n.e.i.                                                 11.8             1.8
9   Total Public M & U  Debt                                           661.7           100.0
10. Other M & LT Debt-                                                 146.2            22.1
11. Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                             1237.1           187.0
12. Total M & LT Debt (inml. Undisbursed)                             1401.0           211.7
1/ Includes a notional 507. share of loans to the EAC.
2/ Includes a notional 507. share of debt service on loans to the EAC.
T/ Excludes EAC.                                                                      EACPIA
February 7, 1978



-27 -                                 ANNEX II
TIIE STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN K'PF4YA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of October 31, 1978
US$ Million
oaar,                                                            Ayunt (Less C   cellations)
tr eiv ?   Year  Borrower   Purpose                             Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed         96.0           74.1
224       1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                  12.6       1.8
826       1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                      0.6
932       1973  Kenya       Highways                           29.0                      6.4
946       1973  IDB         DFC I                               5.0                      0.6
468       1974  Kenya       Population                                        12.0       1.9
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                         21.5      17.9
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                      5.1
1093       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                   7.5                      7.5
537       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                  7.5       4.7
1105       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                    8.0                      8.0
543       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                  8.0        1.8
565       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                            10.0       3.9
1132       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry             10.0                      6.2 2/
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline         20.0                       0.3
1147       1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          59.5                     14.3
1148       1975  IDB         DFC II                             10.0                      2.9
1167       1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                        21.9
1184       1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                      9.0
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                      10.0       8.9
1303-T     1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development               10.0             10.0
1304-T     1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                       17.0             16.5
651       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                 4.0       4.0
1305       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                      4.0
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                     23.0
692       1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                           20.0      15.6
1390-T     1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                     5.0              5.0
1438       1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                     20.0
722       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                         6.0       5.5
1449       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                     34.0
750       1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                              10.0      10.0
1520 3/    1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                     30.0
791       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                                     25.0       25.0
1550       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                      25.0                      25.0
797       1978  Kenya       Education IV                                     23.0       23.0
Total                            467.4    32.0 243.7       374.3
of which has been repaid         17.4      -    0.9
Total now outstanding            450.0    32.0 242.6
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been repaid  8.6   3.2
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/           446.8    32.0 242.6
TOTAL undisbursed                           218.8    31.5 124.0       374.3
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/  Includes US$3.9 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.
Note: This table does not include the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project for which a
loan of US$9.0 million was approved on October 31, 1978 since this loan has not yet
been signed.



-28 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of October 31, 1978
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No. Year  Borrower Purpose                     Bank 1/    Undisbursed
-----US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           1.2
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           3.1
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           1.1
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           5.6
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0            8.3
Total                                         244.8           19.3
of which has been repaid                     46.2
Total now outstanding                          198.6
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      198.6
Total undisbursed                               19.3         19.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of October 31, 1978)
There are currently 26 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. The response to the fertilizer credit scheme
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC - the cofinancing
partner) for 1978/79 is slightly better than for the 1976/77 season. Yields
continue to rise, and from 1979/80 onwards the appraisal projections are
likely to be exceeded. The project factory building program is behind schedule
and, due to cost escalations, funds will only enable 12 factories to be built
instead of 17 as originally envisaged. The OPEC Special Fund is considering
financing 3 factories under the project, and other sources of funds to finance
construction of the remaining 2 factories under the project are being explored.
However CDC has advanced financing for their Fourth Plan, and by December 1979
a total of 15 factories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative.
The standard of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be
high, and although the Marketing Department problems are not yet resolved they
are under control. Disbursements are behind schedule due to the delayed
factory building program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been problems
in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project
was undertaken in March 1976; the review mission's report was presented to the
Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been held since
that date. The project had been adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels
1/   These notes are desiLgned to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
but a new and satisfactory livestock price structure was adopted in early
1978, removing the most serious constraint to ranch development and viability.
Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists in the range
development components, and Government services in ranch water development
planning and in the company ranch sector have been improved. However, prob-
lems continue in that (a) the poor financial situation of many Phase I and
Phase II company ranches continues (although currently under review and
replanning); (b) an effective extension service in the Masai group ranch
areas, which is essential if the project's objectives are to be achieved, is
still not developed adequately; (c) currently high prices have to be paid for
immature steers (which are necessary to enable generation of cash flow) due
to a temporary situation of high demand coupled with an unwillingness by
pastoralists to sell due to good pasture conditions. The project will con-
tinue to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Credit and US$7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cooperation between the various Government ministries and agencies
concerned with the project has improved. However, farm recruitment overall
continues to lag because of legal and social problems; only 16 mixed farms
and 9 coffee farms have been recruited so far compared with appraisal targets
for the third year of implementation of 65 mixed farms and 18 coffee farms.
Costs of rehabilitating coffee farms have increased substantially. A study
prepared by consultants on the large farm sector is presently being reviewed
by the Government, and may lead to policy changes which could necessitate an
in-depth review of the objectives of the project.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$10.0 million Credit and US$10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 18% below target, due to unfavorable weather con-
ditions in 1975 and 1976, shortage of equipment and, in some cases, of labor
(both now remedied). The building and road construction programs are both
considerably behind schedule. However, all the backlogs should be made good
during the last 3 years of the project. Progress has been very slow in
implementing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, particularly
regarding the program to improve efficiency and production of the sawmilling
sector, the national land use study, and the gazetting of nature reserves
and new forest reserves. Although action has now been taken to increase
stumpage rates for sawlogs, this action was taken without prior consultation
with the Bank Group. Problems have also arisen with regard to procurement
of vehicles and staffing. Accordingly, the project is being kept under very
close review.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Develop,ient Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976, Effective Date:  March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
During the first year of implementation, the focus of the project
changed towards assisting large numbers of subsistence farmers rather than
progressive smallholder farners. This change has led to a number of diffi-
culties, but the project objective of improving the productivity and incomes
of smallholder farmers continues to be met. The rates of credit recovery and
loanee reparticipation thus far have been disappointing. Active efforts are
now being made to expand and implement the infrastructure components, in-
cluding improvement of input supplies and marketing systems. Some adjustment
to the administrative framework is required, and discussions on this subject
are ongoing. The Annual Work Plan for FY79 is now under review.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural implementation proceeds satisfactorily with only minor
problems. Cane yields are higher than anticipated, probably because of excel-
lent and well-distributed rainfall during 1977 and the first half of 1978.
Building works were delayed due to shortage of cement, but the position has
improved and the factory should be completed on schedule in October 1979.
Recruitment of staff is underway, and training and research programs are under
preparation. A recent Government decision not to increase sugar prices in
1978 was reviewed with the Bank, and agreement was reached that the current
price levels were adequate to provide the necessary incentives to growers.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loari No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$20.0 million Credit and US$5.0 million Loan of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The progress of the Agricultural Finance Corporation's (AFC) lending
program has accelerated, and both the small scale and medium scale lending
lines are expected to catch up with appraisal forecasts. IDA disbursements
for medium scale loans have now started since AFC has recruited a Credit Spe-
cialist, a precondition for commencement of disbursements under this project
component. Loan recovery from Phase I and II projects is satisfactory and
steps are being taken to improve control of utilization of disbursed loans.
The impact of AFC's loans is seen in the diversification of progressive farms
into dairy, pigs, sugar and other new and expanding enterprises.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 mil:Lion Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been delayed, predominantly because of
late appointment of consultants. As a result of these delays, some components
are as much as a year behind schedule. Revised cost estimates indicate that
the project is likely to encounter serious cost overruns.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delays by the various Committees in approving
sketch designs for the 17 primary teacher colleges. The Government's
reluctance to finance technical assistance specialists from the loan
proceeds may further delay project implementation. The sessional paper
on the report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities which was tabled in Parliament in May 1978 is expected to
be discussed in a full Cabinet meeting in the near future. No major changes
in the document are expected. The delays in approving sketch designs are
expected to be overcome and the dialogue with the Government regarding the
hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective on August 25, 1978. The Project Unit
Staff are benefitting from experience gained in implementing the Third Educa-
tion Project. Consultant architects have been appointed for the Faculty of
Agriculture and the thirteen Nomadic Primary Schools. Implementation of
technical assistance for the Faculty of Agriculture and the Kenya Institute
of Administration has started.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late. Delays were due mainly to weak project
administration by the Ministry of Water Development, particularly in the
early stages. Progress has now improved to an acceptable pace although lost
time is unlikely to be recovered. Disbursements have recently improved to
about 80% of the appraisal forecasts. There is an estimated cost overrun
of about 10% (expressed in US dollars) to be covered from Government re-
sources. Institution building is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in
recruiting staff. Steps are underway to audit the accounts of the Coast
Province Water Branch for the first time. Tariff measures taken by the
Government have been satisfactory.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
This loan is not yet effective. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and the preparation of tender documents. The first tenders
for supply of equipment were received in June 1978, and tenders for the
first civil works contracts to be financed from the loan are expected to
be invited in November 1978.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Efifective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1978
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now sub-
stantially completed, with final completion expected by December 1978. The
delay was primarily caused by a slow start in construction of the regional
workshops and camps due to unforeseen difficulties in the acquisition of
sites and procurement of steel. The revised cost estimate of US$16.0 million
is about US$2.1 million below the appraisal estimate because of savings on
staffing costs and equipment and spare parts. There will be a US$1.8 million
savings from the credit funds. This remaining balance will be used for pur-
chase of additional workshop equipment and tools in order to achieve the
project's objectives. A further postponement of the Closing Date to
December 30, 1979 is likely to be required to allow sufficient time for
completion of procurement.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is almost 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
The remaining principal problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient
staff for operation and maintenance, both of which are constrained by non-
competitive salary scales and a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled personnel. The
Closing Date is likely to be postponed to December 31, 1979 to allow time for
completion of disbursements against expenditures incurred in connection with
the training program. The project completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: US$29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started two years behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. In view
of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction of two roads were delayed.
Agreement has now been reached to delete the Thuchi-Nbuku (51 km) road from
the project. The Closing Date, which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to
December 31, 1979, is likely to be postponed further to allow time for comple-
tion of project works. All work is now in progress except for construction
of the Kisii-Mogonga road. Bidding documents for this road are being prepared
by consultants and should be completed by December 1978.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:  December 31,
1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The oil industry, the
Railways and the Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) have agreed to install central
railroad loading facilities at KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the
US$1.54 million cost is being arranged. KPC has updated the project cost and
financial forecast. The final project cost overrun is only US$9.5 million
or 11%. The increase is primarily due to escalation in construction costs.
KPC's long-term financial prospects are quite satisfactory although there
could be cash flow problems in the initial few years of operation because of
the preponderance of short and medium-term loans in the financing package.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the Loan/Credit became effective in October 1976, no funds
have yet been disbursed. The project is slightly more than a year behind
schedule, though costs are not expected to increase. Economic evaluations
for the eight districts in which Bank-financed units would be set up have
been reviewed and approved by the Bank; five construction units are now
operating, and start up of the remaining three units is expected by December
1978. Through June 1978, 141 km of access roads had been constructed. Labor
intensive construction methods are being successfully applied and output and
costs are in line with appraisal targets.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. All construction work has
been contracted and 95% of the facilities completed. Supply of vehicles
and furniture and equipment has been contracted and delivery has commenced.
The Nursing Activities study has been completed and the Study of Fertility
Determinants is underway. The program components financed by other donors
and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be completed on
schedule, although program management needs to be strengthened and the quality
of services improved. A postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1979 has
been approved to permit completion of construction and procurement.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project:  US$59.5 million Loan -/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in June
1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. Consultants' studies on possible
alternatives for future development and a long-term power development plan
are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effective
on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedu:Le.
This delay is due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved. As at October 31, 1978, US$4.4 million of this
loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been postponed by one year to
March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date:  July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975. The loan was ful:Ly committed in August 1978 and US$7.1 million had been
disbursed as at October 31, 1978.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date:  November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Two sub-projects
have been approved. As at October 31, 1978, US$5.7 million had been committed.
1/ Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan was
cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan was declared effective on June 26, 1978. Measures to
increase Kenya Industrial Estates' (KIE) capital have been finalized. Several
key project staff have been recruited, and efforts are underway to fill the
remaining positions. KIE's guidelines for appraisal of sub-projects are now
being reviewed.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Credit and US$8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000 plots and most
beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastructure for an
additional 2,700 plots is under construction with tendering underway for
construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots. Off-site
infrastructure is nearly completed. Community facilities provision is behind
schedule. One primary school is nearing completion. The remaining five
schools are to be tendered within the next six months. One health center is
under construction, however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against its
costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank. The
design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Technical assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in
conjuncti-on with the project. Project costs remain close to appraisal esti-
mates although minor cost overruns are foreseen for the remaining components
of the project.
Credit No. 791-KE/Loan No. 1550-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit and this Loan became effective on October 3, 1978.
Nairobi's Housing Development Department is organized and staffed; Mombasa
and Kisumu are recruiting staff for their Housing Development Departments.
At least one site in each municipality has been acquired, and work can begin
immediately. No major land acquisition problems are foreseen for any of the
other sites although minor problems exist in acquiring one site in Mombasa.
Consultants for detailed design and engineering for some of the sites have
been appointed, with the appointment of others in process. Substantial
progress has been made on all 13 technical assistance components of the
project.



ANNEX II
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
Ojf July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Preparation for prcject implementation has been considerably slower
than expected, due largely to, delays in recruitment of personnel for the
Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). Project
implementation should now accelerate as officers have recently been appointed
for the PMU. CIDA has expressed an interest in funding WPU posts, and sec-
onded the acting head of the unit for about six months. Preparations for
the Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study are proceeding
satisfactorily. A supplementary letter giving more detailed proposals for
anti-poaching operations to be financed by the Loan has been negotiated
and signed, and disbursements on this component can now begin. The Govern-
ment has largely complied with the terms of the supplementary letter but some
details remain to be finalized.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness; December 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for I)ar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a ligherage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
1/   Since October 1, 1977,the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development: Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the
minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely the
improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
im Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements
have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and moderniza-
tion of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally
financed contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the
exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General
cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam,
and cargo handling productivity has improved with increasing throughput;
however, port labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general
cargo throughput has declined considerably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania
are now functioning completely independently of each other. Legislation to
establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port
Authority is expected to be established soon. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 mil-
lion of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                       0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:



- 39 -
ANNEX II
(US$ Million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7
Loan No. 914-EA - Thir(d Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave system construction have
now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds dis-
bursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been committed for
cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex and tele-
graph equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1977 among the countries
concerned is given below:
(US$ Million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976;
Closing Date - March 31, 1979
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
October 31, 1978
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974
and 1977       Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    13.1         6.3    19.4
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4        -     2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3      2.8     9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market      2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                   29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     8.6     1.8    10.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC         20.4      8.0    28.4
Total Undisbursed                          2.2       -      2.2



- 41 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Even ts
(1) Time taken to prepare the project: 17 months
(2)  Prepared by:                          Government of Kenya with Bank
assistance
(3)  Date of first discussions with        May 1975
the Bank:
(4)  Appraisal Mission:                    April 1977
Post-appraisal Missions:              October 1977 and
April 1978
(5)  Negotiations:                         October 1978
(6)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:        April 1979
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
No special actions required.
III. Special Conditions
(1)  The Government ind SBCU would take all necessary action to recover
SBCU's outstanding loans; the Government would reimburse SBCU for
those loans whiczh cannot be collected or rescheduled (para 34).
(2)  Until December :31, 1988, the Bank would be informed of any additional
investments beyond this project which would result in increased
sugar milling capacity and provided the opportunity to comment
thereon (para 36).
(3)  Sugarcane, ex-mill and sugar retail prices would be reviewed
periodically in consultation with the Bank (para 38).
(4)  Signing of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Government
and individual sugar companies would be a condition of disbursement
for each sugar company being financed under the project (para 51).
(5)  It would be a condition of disbursement for the individual sugar
companies being financed under the project that the existing
parent company loan at Ramisi and reserves at Miwani, Muhoroni,
and Ramisi be converted into equity (para 51).



42 -
ANNEX III
(6)  Execution of Letter Agreements between the Bank and each
of the sugar companies would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan (para 53).
(7)  None of the companies would enter into any management contract
or permit renewal or amendment of any management contract to
which it is a party, without first informing the Bank and affording
the Bank the opportunity to comment thereon (para 53).
(8)  The results of a census of land ownership in the Sugar Settle-
ment Scheme and a plan for allocating responsibilities and costs of
cultivation in plots owned by absentee landowners would be
furnished to the Bank by September 30, 1979 (para 55).
(9)  The Ministry of Labor, KSA and appropriate trade unions would
produce a study by December 31, 1979 of factors influencing labor
supply for cane harvesting (para 55).
(10)  A Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund would be established to ensure
the availability of adequate funds for road and drainage maintenance
(para 56).
(11)  No funds would be lent to any company for factory rehabilitation
until KSA had approved the company's factory rehabilitation plans
and designs (para 57).
(12)  NIB would endeavor to recover all costs related to the irrigation
component (para 58).
(13)   The Government would arrange for short term financing to the
companies if the needed loans could not be secured from commercial
sources (para 60).
(14)  The Government would, by June 30, 1982, prepare a regional drainage
and development plan acceptable to the Bank for the Kano plains
(para 68).



IBRO 12900
- -       J                                                            ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K E N YA   I D   g7
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ny  z   ua   etMiwani
LAND SUITABILITY F OR CANE
C-  S I    t h     nhe H,gh-d IVId - AuStmlftOnnloo,on qen. le to
From  the NIedi E-cerpret rthnrr ....I trere )lo                                            nd   -pesn      Bnd none - ledfs one
gnComploted Ind seltobllfy gttern .,I obot I                                                 hgh    e dn  -g  syst-  s instol ed
of the N:ndl Plleau in Classes SI, Sd  ton cane
/ D striealnn of these po,ent. erene issntter-d  ,Mnor                                                           eenfec c  clude
d~~~~~d    Id,gI bb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~ Id-                                 (H,oeerste   soesOgh nd,1 Mod  inBo dsen
C s  3-3   fVFV, W   So ds rornor impormoband  sitnnolo in    tie L..
Sorob61, b.   _dB Bn  Ienmn            i
sO d7~  tract n    Lnfttr non   Intro Lao Bono wo,,nlaggi.o
ober n Is  ho  oh  n I tbin ola    At high,,r e1ft.td-setoop
leorers    ''~    nom  Clas   S H igh Boon,, -reom   Mast Mod-a
Os6 Io        E-'VBd oa.rneaoeepenreo 'n no Cl-se 33
-Ba...dnr, bolteer  aige no,d Meoda-  1n-ds
aunnoy borw... Mod-m and L- Bon,,n
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S.g, ftontry
Boan-d-1osatpr,pasnd ,toarn. ..n..
B E  SNY A
d''V;'S<n',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'''~~~~~~~~~~~.nSs






__________________________________________________________                                                                                                                     1100   12991~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD     299
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJ ECT
N                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nyanza Sugar Belt -Chemneli and Muhoroni
j  "~~~~~~~~~~N..  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ANDSIA ILT                                                                                                                       O      ANE
<cON~
'N                                 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA5  -                              h Hg   n                    e lif,J,Bnds Ineseso one
fir0deote IPlItILo. Bnd -rot yie doen
r  rstobl  ed,,   ,d
9        - -                            foocetota t~          ~~~~~~~~ ronlheZir steep, scopes lHi9h onod Mled c0Boodo) ord
~~                             -               -, .                  euitoo.n               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opeetert Intentl1 dJ-n-g   Weldtjtn ood Lee
1,-N  .kjJNCt2                  .-j/.                                   N9'N'\xN1~~~l"\                                                                            /                    Sotebiebo              Bond   El seotere reguitne ousty so. coostroot oB-tt
~~~V.c.uL'",  '                 'N.                                                                 t                  <.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LA50 -3  So  rthe ipetmeeble end fitnretobeio the L.,
--    oh1'1  ..                         -tm                                     .                                                                                                       <epIc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t to-l
-'  -'  K  '1~~~~~ \7~~~x\NNKt.tZL~~~~ N                              1k,, <,                                                                                                          Mostly unfit ton co-to  othLAe Low Bonnly  coitfnen eggthe  -ngod  Ml  gg 
-3  1<                                                                                                                                                                                         is toe chief  triton nfl  St higner 0 titudes steep~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,b. I` ~   llIJlef-lt       A hgh,ofitd~    .~
C                                                                                                                                                                                        sopot, hcrnmrr, tess one ottosonoily ste leo nol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAS  L  ~tefiI y   nn,, o,
COS   i/U    - ~    Stonly nrd ins-euroS  o  t   lss  nldo
Ptoeot )r.   oe     c   -  1  nBr oneo    ol Md ctBn
&  robo .                       I,iouo-orooe eupeunefo~ En Ce lsES  tu Clo-ut
Attitoon Bonld
Soordor,y between tn,gh ond Mediotr Soros
bou     f roon  btu et  'fesont Ott .0  od
- So -Iwo
S NN'    The nottent hi sIuo o~ I uonpion den                  ,ieet
K> s toe  tiy pon ton,s oIh eeo ow~~l -he neopd , rt
Inn pno~ not .u, longn blouo n, lone fio Cioste  00 
$7 _' 2ao    ornore  espeoneep todt  -Ouo, end o-rnl
e-1s en potchns It ,,ino e soils one  -pee
Ile~~~~~~~~~~I






F, e--- 1 A.                       : HIM B A   I L S  NAT IN AL
k   >NE t 5 0, A; . N      
CA-   /                 E SB FOE  RAE
K E    N  0 A
A i p ifb 1 : ) RAMIS - ' ' HirFlKlultooX - YreEdfalinedbutmolslureferenbvesKilsofmediumtextuKe
vrr \ W IO
,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wl -R ruidesB buoistr Nhlretentvesolofteirrtetr
-?:$Et~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o limitvfro reRO Beobe ste teel set gredie,t 1
t   ;   0   /             XSbemnm  10                                           MilES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sed  ressftlos RBiltostt  oliRcoSif
M.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptfo RsI togcrlrtetcp 0 todt
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ml eporso ehpt odrtl,oial ieitiee
R misier grson
.Oeder ef -otonlReservei tXi'
/ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ R "I IO e_R                                           op.s
K   .          -I#-              dOObe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   -t,  .1., -0yo
-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o"
./  Srriiiii  ii                                       niLus~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.te ~d



