FILE COPY
Report No. 1887-KE
Kenya Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Appraisal Report
(In Two Volumes)
Volume I
November 17, 1978
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
In October 1975, the Kenya Shilling was devalued and pegged to
the SDR at a rate of SDR 1.00 = KShs. 9.66, and the rate vis-a-vis the
US Dollar has fluctuated since that time. For purposes of this appraisal
the following exchange rate has been used:
US$1.00 = Kenya Shilling (KShs.) 8.00
KShs. 1.00 = US$0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare                     10,000 m'  = 2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)   2          0.62 miles
1 sq. kilometer (km )         0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
I kilogram (kg)        =      2.20 pounds
1 litre (1)                   0.26 US gallons
1 metric ton (t)              0.98 long tons = 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC    =  Agricultural Development Corporation
AFC    m  Agricultural Finance Corporation
CPCS   =   Cooperative Production Credit Scheme
DFCK   -   Development Finance Company of Kenya
KFA    =  Kenya Farmers Association
KNTC   =   Kenya National Trading Corporation
KSA        Kenya Sugar Authority
NCU    =  Muhoroni Cooperative Union
NIB        National Irrigation Board
NSRI   -   National Sugar Research Institute
RDMF   =   Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund
SBCU       Sugar Belt Cooperative Union
SSO    =   Sugar Settlement Organization



KENYA                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
._ii  REHABILITA?iON e&h6'1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION  ..................................    i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .............................................                     1
II.  BACKGROUND .........................................   1
A.    General  .............................................                    1
B.    The Agricultural  Sector ..............................                   2
C.    The Sugar Subsector  .................................                    2
III.    THE PROJECT AREA    .....................................                       4
A.   The Project Area .....................................                     4
B.   The Sugar Companies ..................................                     5
C.   Outgrower Cane Producers .............................                     7
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..............................................                     9
A.    General Description  .................................                    9
B.    Detailed Features  ...............        ..      ..................    10
C.    Project Cost  ....................             ....................     13
D.    Financing  .....................................                        15
E.    Procurement         ....................     .....................      16
F.    Disbursement         ....................      ....................     17
G.   Accounts and Audit  ...............          ..     .................     17
H.   Ecological Effects  ..................................                   17
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..............................                     18
A.    Project Implementation ..............................                   18
B.    Outgrowers'  Organization  ............................                 18
C.    Organization and Management of the Sugar Companies  ..                  20
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  ....... .......    21
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......... ..                ...........   25
V-III.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ..... .........                     .............             27
This report is mainly based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Kenya in April, 1977. The mission was composed of G. Ablasser,
S. Gazzari and P. Santos (Bank/IDA) and R. Antoine, E. Babb, W. Bright,
H. Idehara and G. Murdoch (Consultants); a follow-up mission in October,
1977 consisted of G. Ablasser, S. Capoluongo and P. Santos. A review mis-
sion consisting of D.B. Argyle, J.C. Collins, S. Capoluongo, B. van Keulen
and P. Pohland (Bank/IDA) visited Kenya in April 1978.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES                                                                      VOLUME
1.  Existing Structure and Organization of the Sugar Industry                 II
2.  The Project Area                                                          II
Appendix 1 - Nandi Hills Extension Study
Appendix 2 - Summarized Specifications for Further
Soil Investigations in the Nyanza Sugar Belt
3.  Project Sugar Zones                                                       II
Table 1 - Present and Future Sugar Factory Capacity In Kenya
Table 2 - Cane and Sugar Production of Project Sugar Factories
Table 3 - Summary of 1976 Kenya Sugar Factories Performance
4.  Irrigation                                                                II
Appendix 1 - Groundwater Investigations at Ramisi
Table 1 - Water Availability and Irrigable Areas
Table 2 - Irrigation Water Requirement
5.  Drainage                                                                  II
Appendix I - Topograhical Mapping of the Kano Plain
Table 1 - Climate Data Relating to Drainage Design Parameters
Table 2- Factory Zone Drainage Areas and Quantities
6.  Rehabilitation and Expansion of Sugarcane Production                      II
Table 1 - Summary of Cane Land Development
Table 2 - Present and Expected Sugarcane Yields
Table 3 - Planting and Ratooning Schedule
Table 4 - Cane Harvesting Schedule
Table 5 - Cane Production Schedule
Table 6 - Outgrower Labor Requirements per Hectare of Sugarcane
7.  Harvesting, Handling and Transport of Sugarcane                           II
8.  Staff Training                                                            II
Table I - Schedule of Industry Staff to be Trained
9.  Rehabilitation and Expansion of Sugar Factories                           II
Table 1 - Standard Equipment List



-3-
ANNEXES                                                                       VOLUME
10.  Roads, Housing and Other Facilities                                        II
Table 1 - Highway Design Standards
Table 2 - Unit Rates for Road Construction
Table 3 - Roads, Capital Costs
Table 4 - Schedule of Road Length
Table 5 - Annual Maintenance Costs at Full Development
Table 6 - Road Maintenance Equipment List
Table 7 - Housing Units
Table 8 - Housing, Social Amenities and Other Buildings,
Construction and Maintenance Costs
11.  Project Costs                                                              II
*Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs by Component
Table 2 - Summary of Project Costs by Factory Zone
Table 3 - Irrigation
Table 4 - Drainage
Table  5 - Agricultural Capital Costs - Miwani
Table  6 - Agricultural Capital Costs - Chemelil
Table  7 - Agricultural Capital Costs - Muhoroni
Table  8 - Agricultural Capital Costs - Ramisi
Table  9 - Agricultural Recurrent Non-Variable Costs - Miwani
Table 10 - Agricultural Recurrent Non-Variable Costs - Chemelil
Table 11 - Agricultural Recurrent Non-Variable Costs - Muhoroni
Table 12 - Agricultural Recurrent Non-Variable Costs - Ramisi
Table 13 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Miwani Nucleus Estate
Table 14 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Miwani Outgrowers
Table 15 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Chemelil Nucleus Estate
Table 16 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Chemelil Outgrowers
Table 17 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Muhoroni Nucleus Estate
Table 18 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Muhoroni Outgrowers
Table 19 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Ramisi Nucleus Estate
Table 20 - Agricultural Recurrent Variable Costs - Ramisi Outgrowers
Table 21 - Miwani Sugar Factory - Capital Costs
Table 22 - Muhoroni Sugar Factory - Capital Costs
Table 23 - Ramisi Sugar Factory - Capital Costs
Table 24 - Sugar Factory Recurrent Costs - Miwani
Table 25 - Sugar Factory Recurrent Costs - Chemelil
Table 26 - Sugar Factory Recurrent Costs - Muhoroni
Table 27 - Sugar Factory Recurrent Costs - Ramisi
Table 28 - General Management and Administration
Table 29 - Roads - Capital Costs
Table 30 - Roads - Maintenance Costs
Table 31 - Housing and Social Amenities
Table 32 - Agricultural Research - Kibos
Table 33 - Kenya Sugar Authority
*Table 34 - Cost Elements Qualifying for Retroactive Financing
Appendix 1 - Contingencies
*    Also presented in Volume I.



-4-
ANNEXES                                                                     VOLUME
12.  Disbursement and Project Implementation                                 II
*Table 1-- Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of World
Bank Funds
Charts - *Project Implementation Schedule
(World Bank 17875)
-  Implementation Schedule for Ramisi Factory
(World Bank 17568)
-  Implementation Schedule for Miwani Factory
(World Bank 17566)
-  Implementation Schedule for Muhoroni Factory
(World Bank 17567)
13.  Proposed Organization                                                   II
Charts - National Sugar Research Institute,
Proposed Organization (World Bank 17617)
- Miwani, Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi
Sugar Companies, Proposed Organization
(World Bank 17748)
14.  Markets and Prices
Table 1 - World Sugar Production, Consumption, Exports,            II
Imports, 1960-1985
Table 2 - World Sugar Prices, Selected Periods and Years
Table 3 - Population and Sugar Supply and Consumption, 1955-1957
Table 4 - Sugar Production, By Company, 1974-1990
Table 5 - Alternative Growth Paths of Sugar Consumption,
1978-1990
*Table 6 - Production and Alternative Levels of Consumption of Sugar
Table 7 - Sugar Prices, 1966-1977
Table 8 - Price Structure of Imported Sugar
15.  Financial Analysis                                                       I
Table 1 - Miwani Sugar Mills - Income Statements                   II
(Table A, B, C)
Table 2 - Miwani Sugar Mills - Balance Sheets
Table 3 - Miwani Sugar Mills - Cash Flow Projections
Table 4 - Miwani Sugar Mills - Financial Rate of Return
Table 5 - Chemelil Sugar Company - Income Statements
(Table A, B, C)
Table 6 - Chemelil Sugar Company - Balance Sheets
*    Also presented in Volume I.



5
ANNEXES                                                                     VOLUME
15. Financial Analysis (Continued)
Table  7 - Chemelil Sugar Company - Cash Flow Projections           II
Table  8 - Chemelil Sugar Company - Financial Rate of Return
Table  9 - East African Sugar Industries - Muhoroni - Income
Statements (Table A, B, C)
Table 10 - East African Sugar Industries - Muhoroni -
Balance Sheets
Table 11 - East African Sugar Industries - Muhoroni -
Cash Flow Projections
Table 12 - East African Sugar Industries - Muhoroni -
Financial Rate of Return
Table 13 - Associated Sugar Company - Ramisi
- Income Statements (Table A, B, C)
Table 14 - Associated Sugar Company - Ramisi
- Balance Sheets
Table 15 - Associated Sugar Company - Ramisi-Cash Flows
Table 16 - Associated Sugar Company - Ramisi - Financial
Rate of Return
Table 17 - Ramisi - Outgrowers Budget for Sugarcane
Table 18 - Ramisi - Outgrowers Cash Position per Hectare
Table 19 - Ahero - Outgrowers Budget
Table 20 - Ahero - Outgrowers Cash Flow per Hectare
Table 21 - Miwani - Outgrowers Budget for Sugarcane
Table 22 - Miwani - Outgrowers Cash Flow per Hectare
Table 23 - Ahero - Irrigation Scheme - Cost Recovery Calculation
Table 24 - Calculation of Roads and Dra:inage Maintenance Levy,
Nyanza Sugar Belt
*Table 25 - Financing Plan
Table 26 - Projected Production and Prices
*Table 27 - Government Cash Flow
Table 28 - Foreign Exchange Inflows and Outflows
Appendix 1 - Financial Assumptions
16.  Economic Analysis
Table  1 - Summary of Project Costs and Benefits
Table  2 - Summary of Project Costs and Benefits - Miwani
Table  3 - Summary of Project Costs and Benefits - Chemelil
Table  4 - Summary of Project Costs and Benefits - Muhoroni
Table  5 - Summary of Project Costs and Benefits - Ramisi
Table  6 - Economic Analysis - Drainage, Nyanza Sugar Belt
Table  7 - Economic Analysis - Irrigation, Nyanza Sugar Belt
*    Also presented in Volume I.



-6-
MAPS                                                                          VOLUME
-    Land Suitability for Cane - Miwani (IBRD 12990)                        I
-    Cane Growing Areas - Miwani (IBRD 12988)                              II
-    Drainage Needs and Irrigation Possibilities - Miwani                  II
(IBRD 12992)
-    Roads - Miwani (IBRD 12994)                                           II
-    Land Suitability for Growing Cane - Chemelil and Muhoroni              I
(IBRD 12991)
-    Cane Growing Areas - Chemelil and Muhoroni - (IBRD 12989)             II
-    Drainage Needs and Irrigation Possibilities - Chemelil                II
and Muhoroni (IBRD 12993)
-    Roads - Chemelil and Muhoroni (IBRD 12995)                            II
-    Land Suitability for Cane - Ramisi (IBRD 12997 R)                      I
-    Project Area - Ramisi (IBRD 12996)                                    II
-    Roads - Ramisi (IBRD 13062)                                           II



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        The Kenyan Government is promoting the development of the counLry's
sugar industry through investments in new plants and improvements and expan-
sion of existing plants. This development is justified on import substitution
grounds, as Kenya's imports of sugar have averaged about 50,000 t annually
since 1968; it is also important in view of the country's stated objectives
of furthering balanced regional economic growth, smallholder production and
incomes, and general employment. Without additional investments in the sugar
industry Kenya would have domestic shortages of sugar in most years of the
next decade, while at the same time a significant portion of its sugar factory
capacity remained unused.
ii.       The Project would provide new or improved irrigation on a total of
3,540 ha of cane lands and drainage infrastructure for about 15,000 ha. Cane
production would be improved and expanded on 14,790 ha of nucleus estate land
and 34,550 ha of outgrowers' land in the Nyanza Sugar Belt in western Kenya
and at Ramisi on the southern coast.  The factories of the sugar companies at
Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi would be rehabilitated and expanded from a com-
bined total crushing capacity of 5,000 t of cane per day (TCD) to 6,150 TCD;
the factory at Chemelil would not require additional investments, although
other investments would be made in the Chemelil sugar zone. General manage-
ment and administration would be improved in all companies. The Project would
also provide for improvement and expansion of sugar roads and tracks, for the
construction of staff houses, and for staff training and studies. The in-
dustry's research capability would also be strengthened.
iii.      The four sugar companies would be responsible for implementing, in
their respective zones, the Project's agricultural, factory and general man-
agement and administration components; company research and training; staff
housing; and improvement of unclassified roads and tracks in smallholder
areas. The Ministry of Works would improve all classified roads and those
unclassified roads which are located outside the smallholder areas. The
strengthening of the National Sugar Research Institute at Kibos would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. Ihe irrigation and drainage
components would be implemented by consultants tc be appointed and supervisrd
by the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA); KSA would create a technical committee
for this purpose. KSA also would carry out the proposed studies, review and
approve the companies' detailed factory rehabilitation plans, establish and
operate the Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund, and form the Sugar Belt
Coordinating Committee. The cooperative unions and societies in the Project
area would assist the sugar companies in the implementation of the outgrowers
component.
iv.       The organizational structure of the sugar companies would be changed,
as required, towards a system with four major departments, headed by a general
manager. The companies' agricultural department would be responsible for the



- ii -
improvement of: the nucleus estates; the outgrowers' development program in
their respective zones; and the provision of all necessary inputs, services
and extension advice. Farmers, who would be under contract with the companies,
would adhere to company regulations throughout the growing cycle of the cane
and pay for the inputs and services provided by the companies at the time of
harvest and delivery of the cane to the factory. Members of cooperatives and
their cooperative union or society would jointly sign the contract with the
sugar company and members would be assisted in meeting their contract obliga-
tions by the union or society.
v.        The Project would have a total cost of US$138.0 million or US$128.4
million excluding taxes and duties; the foreign exchange component would be
US$71.8 million. About 61% of total Project cost net of taxes and duties
would be financed by a World Bank loan of US$72 million and an African Devel-
opment Bank loan of US$6 million; 36% would be covered by the companies'
self-generated funds (US$46.9 million) and financing provided by the Govern-
ment of Kenya (US$3.5 million). Overall external financing (US$78.0 million)
would cover 100% of total foreign exchange costs and 9% of local costs.
vi.       The World Bank would finance agricultural capital costs, company
staff training, incremental agricultural salaries and fertilizers, land
preparation and cane planting, factory capital costs, incremental manage-
ment and administrative overhead at Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi; housing
capital costs at Miwani and Muhoroni; irrigation capital costs at Muhoroni
and Ramisi; irrigation at Ahero and Kibos, Government's road construction
program and the National Sugar Research Institute; and studies and staff
training to be undertaken by the Kenya Sugar Authority. Financing for
incremental salaries and management would amount to US$4.1 million and for
research and training to US$1.6 million. The procurement under the World
Bank loan of agricultural vehicles and equipment (US$9.0 million), new sugar
factory machinery and equipment (US$14.8 million), incremental fertilizers
(US$4.9 million) and civil works contracts for housing (US$7.3 million),
irrigation and -drainage (US$13.2 million) and roads under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Works (US$2.9 million) would be by international com-
petitive bidding, except for items costing less than US$100,000 and civil
works costing less than US$200,000 which would be procured in accordance with
local procedures. Rehabilitation of existing factory equipment and facilities
(US$4.5 million) would be undertaken by the companies with their own equipment
and staff and local contractors as required. Land preparation, cane planting
and field maintenance operations (US$6.0 million) would be conducted by the
companies with their own equipment and staff. The construction of access
roads and tracks under the responsibility of the companies (US$3.7 million)
would be partly undertaken by the companies with their own equipment and staff
but- generally would be carried out by local contractors to be selected under
local procurement procedures. Architects, engineering consultants for irri-
gation, roads and the factories would be appointed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.



- iii -
vii.      Project incremental sugar production wouldl be about 42,000 t in
Year 4 and 109,000 t annually after full development in Year 8. Valued at
projected import parity and expressed in constant 1978 prices, 109,000 t
of sugar would provide revenues of KShs. 448 million (US$56 million) after
1986, and thus represent significant foreign exchange savings. Net annual
foreign exchange savings, including debt service, would be about KShs. 250
million (US$31 million) in Year 8 and would continue to increase thereafter.
The Project would provide wage employment for about 1,000 persons. In addi-
tion, about 10,800 smallholder families would benefit through increased
incomes averaging some KShs. 3,560 (US$445) annually per family without
previous cane cultivation experience, and KShs. 1,000 (US$125) per family
already established in cane growing; these increases would be 190% and 25%
above present income levels, respectively.
viii.     The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated to be 33%.
The major risks facing Project production include problems in company-
smallholder relations leading to shortfalls in cane production, possible
weather and soils-related declines in cane yields, and disruptions in the
supply of cane harvest labor. However, the sensitivity analysis indicates
that even with an output 20% below expectations, the economic rate of return
would still be 24%.  Alternatively, if one or two new factories were built
before 1981, sugar production could exceed consumption by 150,000-200,000
tons per annum from 1985 to 1989. According to World Bank price projections,
Kenya could export at a slight profit from 1985 to 1989, but there is a risk
that prices could be lower. In this case the Government may be forced to
lower sugar cane prices to discourage production. This action would have a
negative effect on the Project. This risk is acceptable in view of the clear
understanding between Government and the Bank on future investment plans in
the sugar industry.
ix.       Ten World Bank Loans and 13 IDA Credits totaling about US$220 mil-
lion have been approved so far to assist in the financing of 18 projects in
the agriculture sector of Kenya. In addition to the South Nyanza Sugar
Project, these include projects concerned with livestock development, af-
forestation, tea development, farm roads, settlement, smallholder credit,
rehabilitation of group farms, integrated agricultural development, irrigation
and sugar production. Implementation of these projects generally has been
satisfactory, although there have been substantial delays affecting several
projects, particularly the Second Livestock Development Project and the Group
Farms Rehabilitation Project.
x.        Subject to the required assurances and conditions, the Project is
suitable for a Bank Loan of US$72 million for 20 years with 5 years of grace.






KFENY
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Local demand for sugar in Kenya has exceeded local production for
several decades. The rising cost of imports has led Government to embark on
a plan to increase domestic production and eventually reach self-sufficiency
by the 1980 s. A UNDP-financed study was carried out in 1975 to provide a
better basis for the planning of new investments, and four high-priority
projects were identified. This Project - which would rehabilitate the Miwani
Sugar Mills, Ltd. at Miwani (Miwani), the Chemelil Sugar Company, Ltd. at
Chemelil (Chemelil) and the East African Sugar Industries, Ltd. at Muhoroni
(Muhoroni) in the Sugar Belt of Nyanza Province and the Associated Sugar Com-
pany, Ltd. at Ramisi (Ramisi) in Coast Province - was given highest priority
in the UNDP study. The other three projects identified at that time provide
for the establishment of new factories at Nzoia (now being undertaken with
French Government assistance) and in South Nyanza (now underway with World
Bank and other assistance), and the doubling of the present capacity of the
Mumias plant (now underway with support from the United Kingdom). Projected
increases in production should make Kenya self-sufficient in sugar and may
even result in temporary sugar surpluses.
1.02      Since 1960, the Bank Group has extended 10 loans and 13 IDA credits
for 18 projects totalling nearly US$220 million to assist Kenya's agriculture.
In addition to the South Nyanza Sugar Project (approved by the Bank in March
1977), these include projects concerned with livestock development, affores-
tation, tea development, farm roads, settlement, smallholder credit, rehabil-
itation of group farms, integrated agricultural development, and irrigation.
In general, projects have been well executed, although there have been sub-
stantial delays affecting several projects, particularly the Second Livestock
Development Project and the Group Farms Rehabilitation Project.
1.03      The Project was prepared in part by consultants and in part by the
Project sugar companies. This report is mainly based on the findings of a
Bank mission which visited Kenya in April 1977 consisting of G. Ablasser,
P. Santos and S. Gazzari (Bank) and R. Antoine, E. Babb, W. Bright, H. Idehara
and G. Murdoch (Consultants); a follow-up mission in October 1977 consisted
of G. Ablasser, S. Capoluongo and P. Santos. A review mission consisting of
D.B. Argyle, J.C. Collins, S. Capoluongo, P. Pohland and B. van Keulen (Bank!
IDA) visited Kenya in April 1978.
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Kenya has a total area of 583,000 km , and has wide variations
in climatic and ecological conditions. The climate, modified by altitudes



-2-
ranging from sea level to over 5,000 meters, is principally differentiated
in terms of rainfall regimes which vary from under 250 mm per year in the
northern deserts to 1,900 mm per year in the western highlands near Lake
Victoria. Kenya's population is estimated at 14.4 million (mid 1977) and
is growing at a rate of about 3.5% annually. About 90% of the population is
classified as rural and is primarily dependent on agriculture for its live-
lihood.  Kenya's GDP at factor cost in 1976 was about KShs. 25.1 billion, or
KShs. 1,810 (US$226) per capita. GDP outside the monetary economy in agri-
culture, forestry and fishing (subsistence) is estimated to have increased
0.3% annually on average during the 1972-76 period, while commercial agri-
culture grew by 2.2% annually. Kenya's imports of KShs. 8.1 billion in 1976
exceeded exports by KShs. 1.2 billion. Consumer prices rose at an annual rate
of about 9.1% in the first quarter of 1977, compared with annual increases of
10% in 1976 and 19% in 1975.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.02      In 1976, the agricultural sector accounted for KShs. 8.5 billion
or about 29% of the country's GDP; commercial agriculture accounted for
KShs. 4.5 billion of this total. Currently, agriculture accounts for about
60% of total exports, with the main agricultural exports comprising coffee,
tea, sisal, pyrethrum, meat, dairy products, hides and sk:ns, cotton, wool,
nuts and animal feed. The main subsistence foodcrops are maize, sorghum,
millet and pulses; the main cash crops are coffee, tea, sugarcane, wheat and
sisal. About 20% of Kenya's total land area of 58 million ha is of high or
medium potential for crops or livestock, including the highlands and the
coastal belt. A further 10% is suitable for subsistence dryland farming and
cattle ranching, while the rest is suitable only for extensive production of
livestock for both commercial and subsistence needs. Government's develop-
ment objectives for agriculture are to: (i) increase both the output and
productivity of export commodities where Kenya has a comparative advantage;
(ii) diversify output to spread the risks of price fluctuations; (iii) in-
crease production of food crops; and (iv) develop physical and social infra-
structure in integrated programs for both cash and food crops, raise incomes
and living standards in the poorer parts of the country, and reduce rural-
urban disparities, income disparities and the population-land imbalance among
regions.
C. The Sugar Subsector
2.03      The commercial production of sugar in Kenya began in the 1920's with
the establishment of privately-owned factories at Ramisi near the Coast and
Miwani in the Nyanza Sugar Belt. After World War II, the production of Ramisi
and Miwani fell increasingly short of meeting domestic demand, and the cost of
importing sugar escalated. After independence, Government decided to expand
sugar production to attain eventual self-sufficiency and, at the same time,
increase incomes of small farmers. Other factories, majority-owned by Govern-
ment, were established in Muhoroni (1966) and Chemelil (1968) in the Sugar



- 3 -
Belt of Nyanza Province and in Mumias (1973) in Western Province. New fac-
tories at Nzoia and in South Nyanza (para 1.01) are now under construction
and are scheduled to become operational in 1978 and 1980, respectively.
Institutions Serving the Sugar Subsector (Annex 1)
2.04      The Ministry of Agriculture has overall responsibility for sugar
industry development. Through its representation on the Boards of Muhoroni,
Chemelil, Mumias, Nzoia and South Nyanza, the Ministry plays an important role
in the operations of a major part of the industry. The Ministry's National
Sugar Research Institute (NSRI) was set up in 1971 at Kibos in the Sugar Belt.
In 1972, the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) was created under the Ministry of
Agriculture to promote the development of the sugar industry and to give
advice to Government. The Ministry of Finance and Planning plays an important
role in the sugar subsector through its national planning function, budgeting
powers and influence on pricing policy. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry
determines import requirements of sugar for household consumption, makes
purchases abroad, has responsibility for domestic distribution through the
Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC) (para. 2.05) and participates in
the formulation of price policy. The Ministry of Cooperative Development
is responsible for administering a range of programs concerning cooperative
development. The National Irrigation Board (NIB) is responsible for large-
scale irrigation projects and has a pilot cane production project on the Kano
plain in the Sugar Belt.
Markets and Prices
2.05      The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for estimating
sugar requirements, procuring sugar locally and through imports, allocating
sugar supplies, and enforcing regulations governing the marketing of sugar.
The physical distribution of sugar to regional wholesale depots is the respon-
sibility of the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC); local distribution
is in the hands of the private trade. The Chief Accountant of the Office of
the President, who handles all of the Ministry's accounts, carries out all
financial transactions related to KNTC's trading activities and maintains the
national sugar account. The national sugar account is a central fund into
which all proceeds from the sale of sugar to wholesalers by KNTC are deposited,
and from which all sugar payments for purchase, handling, and distribution
from KNTC warehouses are made. Although this marketing system has functioned
reasonably well in the past, isolated disruptions in sugar supply have at times
caused operational difficulties for the factories. Improvements including
storage, transport, market research and analysis and allocation procedures
will be necessary, as problems associated with marketing (and particularly
with storage) will worsen rapidly with increased sugar production. These
problems were identified in connection with the South Nyanza Sugar Project
and the Government has agreed to submit a plan for improvement to the Bank by
December 31, 1978.
2.06      All prices and margins for sugar are fixed by Government upon
recommendations by KSA. The price of sugarcane delivered to the factory was
increased from KShs. 92/t in 1975 to KShs. 105/t in 1976 and KShs. 133/t in



-4-
1977.     After a period of some years when sugarcane prices were not suf-
ficient to encourage farmers to increase the use of modern production inputs
and adopt better husbandry practices, the current cane price is considered
adequate, provided it is maintained in real terms. The ex-mill price of sugar
increased from KShs. 1,860/t in 1975 to KShs. 2,300/t in 1976 and KShs. 2,800/t
in 1977. The retail price was raised from KShs. 3,500/t in 1975 to KShs 4,500/t
in 1976; there was no increase in 1977.  (GOK reduced taxes on retail sugar to
offset other cost increases). Price changes have had an effect on both con-
sumption and production. Total sugar consumption decreased from 225,000 t in
1974 to 177,000 t in 1976. On a per capita basis, consumption decreased from
a record 17.6 kg per year in 1974 to 14.5 kg in 1976 before increasing again to
15.1 kg in 1977. Domestic production rose from 164,000 t in 1974 to 181,000 t
in 1977. Sugar imports averaged 50,000 t/year for the period 1968-76. Annual
import requirements dropped from 61,000 t in 1974 to 32,000 t in 1976 and
34,000 t in 1977.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. The Project Areas (Annex 2)
3.01      The Project would be carried out in two locations - the Nyanza
Sugar Belt and the Ramisi Sugar Zone. The Nyanza Sugar Belt lies in the
western part of Kenya between Kisumu on Lake Victoria and the Tinderet-Lumbwa
mountains; it-falls almost entirely in the Kisumu District of Nyanza Province.
The Ramisi Sugar Zone is located in the far south of Kenya in the coastal
plain beneath the Shimba Hills. Sugar production in both areas is organized
around "sugar zones"; each zone comprises a sugar factory, the factory's
nucleus estate, and the outgrower farms. The Project would provide for the
rehabilitation of tiree such sugar zones in the Nyanza Sugar Belt and one at
Ramisi.
Nyanza Sugar Belt
3.02      The Project would rehabilitate three factory zones in the Nyanza
Sugar Belt - Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni. 2These three adjacent blocks of
land or "zones" together cover some 1,000 km of the Kano plain. Outgrowers'
cane farms servicing each factory are located within about 28 km of the
factory site, although the uneven expansion of cane production has resulted
in the evolution of irregularly shaped zones. Since 1966 there has been a
mutually agreed geographic demarcation between suppliers of cane to each of
the mills (Map, IBRD 12988); this pattern of cane supplies is being reorga-
nized in order to rationalize transport requirements. Currently there
are some 14,000 farmers in the Nyanza Sugar Belt, most of whom grow cane;
subsistence crops grown include maize, millet, cassava, beans and sweet
potatoes. Part time farming is common, as there are numerous employment
opportunities in the town of Kisumu and with the sugar companies. The total
population of all three zones is about 120,000 persons, giving an overall
density of 100 per km .



- 5 -
3.03      Irrigation.  The unreliability of rainfall is one of the major
factors causing low cane yields in the sugar areas. Pilot irrigation schemes
in the Sugar Belt have demonstrated that yield increases of up to 30 tons/ha/
year can be obtained under irrigation. The water available for irrigation in
the Sugar Belt comes from the Nyando and Kibos Rivers. There are two pilot
schemes under irrigation in the Kano plains at Ahero and West Kano managed by
NIB. Ahero is a pumped scheme utilizing run-of-the-river flow from the Nyando
to irrigate 770 ha (gross) of rice and 30 ha (grc,ss) of experimental sugarcane.
The West Kano scheme will eventually comprise 400 ha of cane and 400 ha of
rice under irrigation using water pumped from Lake Victoria; at present, about
200 ha of cane and 200 ha of rice are under cultivation. About 15,000 ha of
the lower part of the Sugar Belt are affected by poor drainage, chiefly where
cane-growing areas extend into the Kano plains; moreover, the poor internal
drainage of the prevalent heavy clay soils accentuates the drainage problems.
Ramisi Sugar Zone
3.04      The Ramisi estate occupies three parcels of land along 45 km of the
Mombasa-Lungalunga road.  The Ramisi factory is 70 km southwest of Mombasa,
and 2 km from the coast. At present, the few outgrowers servicing the factory
have cane fields within 18 km of the factory site. As there is only one
factory in the area, no factory zoning is necessary, and cane supplies will
continue to come from anywhere within the area where haulage is economic.
Outgrowers have only recently begun to supply significant quantities of cane
to the factory. Since its establishment in 1927, the sugar industry in this
area has employed a high proportion of migrant laborers from the Nyanza Sugar
Belt and surrounding areas. Apart from the sugar estates and a few other
large farms, the Ramisi area is characterized by small subsistance farms;
maize and sweet potatoes are the principal food crops produced, while cash
crops include cashews, mangoes, cassava and limes.
3.05      Irrigation.  At present, about 480 ha of cane is grown under sprinkler
irrigation. Water is pumped from an existing dam to a high level canal. The
pumps and motors in the main pump station are in very poor condition and the
main canal lining needs repairs. The catchment area of the dam is too small
to provide sufficient run-off to fill the dam in dry years, and the dam has
insufficient capacity to irrigate the 480 ha fully. A suitable site for a new
dam has been located in the nucleus estate; however, additional studies need
to be carried out to determine the availability of groundwater (para 4.15).
The area's topography and soils do not give rise to serious drainage problems,
and although some low-lying areas are subject to occasional water-logging, the
difficulties can be resolved by land forming and land preparation.
B. The Sugar Companies (Annex 3)
3.06      Of the four sugar companies to be rehabilitated under the Project,
two - Miwani and Ramisi - are privately owned. Miwani is managed by its
owners; Ramisi is managed by EMCO Kenya Ltd., whose management agreement



- 6 -
expires in 1990. Chemelil is 97% owned by Government and 3% by other in-
vestors; Bookers' management agreement with the company is due to expire in
1981. Government owns 84% and the Mebta Group, Ltd. 16% of Muhoroni; the
company's management agreement with the Uketa Development Corporation, Ltd.,
a Mehta Group subsidiary, expires in 1980. Each of the companies owns a
nucleus estate. The main characteristics of each of the four companies are
shown below:
Miwani   Chemelil   Muhoroni    Ramisi
Area Under Cane (1976)
Nucleus Estate             (ha)      3,200      3,000       1,800       5,200
Large Farms                (ha)      3,800      6,300         700         480
Smallholders              (ha)       2,330      3,200       6,600         320
Total                          9,330    12,500       9,100       6,000
Yields (1976)
Nucleus Estate             (tchy)       35         45          28          20
Large Farms                (tchy)       28         36          40          19
Smallholders              (tchy)        28         30          30          23
Cane Production (1976)        ('000 t)    292        455         274          84
Sugar Production (1976)       ('000 t)     25         46          26           6
3.07      The four sugar companies are very dissimilar with respect to owner-
ship, management, organization and structure of agricultural production, the
physical condition of factory assets, financial results, etc. Chemelil and
Muhoroni are relatively new factories commissioned in the late 1960's. Miwani
and Ramisi are older factories commissioned in the 1920's. The three factories
in the Nyanza area have been modernized and expanded in recent years and are
in generally good condition. The Ramisi factory has developed and expanded
over the years primarily by installing second-hand machinery; however, main-
tenance has been limited and the condition of the factory is generally poor.
All the factories have been characterized by under-utilization of capacity
due to inadequate cane supplies because of transport bottlenecks and low cane
yields. Although the relatively marginal conditions of soils and climate in
part explain the low cane yields, one of the major constraints to improved
output has been farm mangement, which varies from zone to zone, but which is
on the whole at a low level.
3.08      Inadequate cane supplies and the resulting under-utilization of
capacity has resulted in generally poor factory performance. Sugar recovery
levels are substantially below standards achievable in the industry, a
reflection not only of the poor quality of the cane milled, but also of poor
operational standards within the factories. Optimizing factory sugar recovery
requires continuous attention to the details of production and the careful
organization and coordination of cane deliveries, and staff at all the fac-
tories have been short of meeting standards obtained in some other factories



- 7-
in Kenya. Efforts to address these and other problems have, however, been
hampered by a shortage of capital, which has made it difficult for any of the
factories to institute the necessary changes.
C. Outgrower Cane Producers (Annex 3)
Nyanza Sugar Belt
3.09      All the sugar companies process sugarcane produced by outgrower
farmers in addition to the cane produced on their own estates. These out-
growers' farms range in size from less than one hectare to more than 2,000
ha. The large farms are generally owned by non-Africans who have been farming
in the area for several generations; the transfer of these farms into African
ownership has been occurring at a slow but steady pace. Most of the large
farmers are members of the Nyanza Farmers Cooperative Society, a non-affiliated
society without production or marketing functions which represents the owners
in discussions with the factories and with Government. The farmers operate
their own cultivation and transport equipment, and receive financing from
private sources, commercial banks and the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC). The vast majority of all smallholders cultivate less than 2 hectares;
these farmers are generally either members of the Sugar Settlement Scheme at
Muhoroni or of a cooperative society.
3.10      The Sugar Settlement Scheme at Muhoroni, established in 1964 by
the Ministry of Lands and Settlement, covers some 21,000 ha of agricultural
land cultivated by some 3,000 settlers who mainly come from other areas; about
5,700 ha are planted to cane. The majority of the settlement plots are 4 ha,
with 1 ha designated for subsistence crops and home site and 3 ha for cane
production. The cane plots are grouped into large blocks of 50-100 ha.
Actual production of cane in the blocks has been carried out and financed
largely by the Sugar Settlement Organization. All settlers are also members
of one of seven cooperative societies, which are affiliated with the Muhoroni
Cooperative Union (the latter is currently in Government receivership). A
serious problem in the Settlement Scheme is the existence of settlers who, for
a variety of reasons, are not permanent, resident, full-time farmers. These
settlers tend to be part-time farmers, depending on jobs in Kisumu, Nairobi or
elsewhere for their main income; they make arrangements with a resident farmer
to "manage" their property or have a second family or other relative on the
property. No figures are readily available as to the number of absentee or
part-time farmers. The Muhoroni sugar company has had no agricultural depart-
ment and has provided no services to the Settlement Scheme; this lack of
serv-ices plus poor soils, drainage problems, poor agronomic practices, and bad
management have resulted in low yields and production. The repayment record
on the land purchase and development loans extended to settlers has been poor,
with absentee farmers lagging behind resident farmers. Of the total loans of
K'Shs. 20 million extended, about KShs. 12 million is currently in arrears.



- 8 -
3.11      The cooperative movement in the Sugar Belt includes the Muhoroni
Cooperative Union and its seven constituent societies (para 3.10), the 24
marketing societies and 11 production societies affiliated with the Sugar Belt
Cooperative Union (SBCU), and the unaffiliated Nyanza Farmers Cooperative
Society (para 3.09). The SBCU was established in 1973 by Government in an
attempt to strengthen the cooperative movement and increase small-scale cane
production. In 1973, an agricultural department was established to identify
land for new cane planting, plan and supervise cultivation, and coordinate
harvesting and transport of cane. The technical and management capability of
SBCU has not been a significant improvement over previous arrangements, how-
ever, and the level of agronomic practices and hence yields have not increased
significantly. Several loans were extended to SBCU to develop or rehabilitate
some 6,640 ha of cane; cost overruns have been considerable and farmers'
accounts have not been kept up to date, creating serious financial difficulties
for SBCU.
Ramisi
3.12      At Ramisi there are at present only 357 small outgrowers producing
cane on small plots of up to 4 ha, and a few large cane farmers. The existing
cooperative society mainly operates a cane transport lorry; there is no coop-
erative credit. About 80 outgrowers currently have production loans from AFC.
The Kigombero Special Rural Development Scheme provides some extension help;
it formerly provided credit, but stopped because repayment was poor.
Experience with Smallholder Outgrower Production
3.13      The experience of the past decade has been a disincentive to small-
holder cane production in the Sugar Belt and Ramisi. There has been little
if any extension advice available, and management services provided by various
organizations over the years have either not suited local conditions or, through
poor decisions, have otherwise resulted in low farm incomes and antagonized
farmers. There has been a lack of coordination between the factories and out-
growers. Cane transportation has been a bottleneck. Financing arrangements
have been unsuitable in that there has not been continuous and sufficient
availability of funds, loan repayment schedules have been inflexible and no
real effort had been made to establish financial discipline on the part of the
farmers. These factors, combined with the relatively marginal conditions for
cane growing in the Project area and the low cane prices up until 1977, have
caused farmers to adopt a low-input, low-yield system to minimize their finan-
cial risks. Aggregate cane production has thus remained far below the area's
potential and the factories' processing capacities. The increase in prices
in 1977 is now making cane production profitable but the other aspects of
sugar production still need substantial improvements.



IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over six years (1979-1984) rehabilitate and
expand the sugar companies at Miwani, Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi, including
the factories (with the exception of Chemelil), the nucleus estates, outgrower
cane areas and housing and transportation infrastructure. The Project would
increase the annual domestic production of mill-white sugar, thus helping
Kenya to reach self-sufficiency in sugar in the early 1980's. Specifically,
the Project would comprise:
(a) The establishment of run-of-the-river irrigation of
2,000 ha in Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni zones; the
conversion of 770 ha of irrigated rice area to
irrigated sugarcane at Ahero; and the rehabilitation
of the existing irrigation system for 370 ha and estab-
lishment of sprinkler irrigation from a new dam for an
additional 400 ha at Ramisi.
(b) Drainage for 15,000 ha of nucleus estate and outgrowers
land in the Sugar Belt.
(c)  Agricultural development, including the rehabilitation of
existing cane lands and establishment of new cane areas,
improvements in cane harvesting and transportation, and
strengthening of the sugar companies' agricultural research
and training.
(d) Rehabilitation and expansion of the Miwani, Muhoroni and
Ramisi sugar factories, and training of factory staff.
(e) Improvement of the companies' general management and
administration.
(f) Infrastructure, including construction and maintenance
of roads and tracks and of staff housing and other
facilities.
(g) The strengthening of the National Sugar Research
Institute.
(h) Studies and additional agricultural staff training
to be undertaken by the Kenya Sugar Authority.
4.02      Although the sugar companies would have operating revenues through-
out the Project period, the companies' operations would be disrupted con-
siderably as a result of the Project and expenditures would outpace revenues;
hence, for Years 1-5 all incremental staff salaries and agricultural and



- 10 -
factory inputs and materials would be treated as capital expenditures. The
Project would be executed by the four respective sugar companies (agriculture,
factories, training, company research, minor roads and tracks), the Ministry
of Works (major roads), the Ministry of Agriculture (national research), the
National Irrigation Board (Ahero conversion) and the Kenya Sugar Authority
(drainage, irrigation, training, studies).
B. Detailed Features
Irrigation (Annex 4)
4.03      Nyanza Sugar Belt.  The Project would develop run-of-the-river
pumped schemes on the Nyando, the Ainomotua and the Kibos rivers. The new
schemes would include the irrigation of 400 ha in the Miwani zone with water
drawn from the Kibos; this would include 80 ha of the Kibos research station
and the large farms immediately adjacent. Also, some 930 ha of the Chemelil
nucleus estate would be irrigated from the Ainomotua River and 670 ha of the
Nyando Estate at Muhoroni would be irrigated from the Nyando River. Furrow
irrigation would be proposed. The Project works would comprise canals and
distributaries, control structures, pump stations and land preparation. Also,
the existing irrigation system at Ahero would be modified to transform it from
rice to cane production. The conversion would involve some 770 ha and would
comprise mainly land preparation and provision of control structures.
4.04      Ramisi.  The main pump station on the Musembeni dam would be re-
constructed, worn out pumps and motors replaced and the lining on the main
canal repaired. As a result, more effective and adequate irrigation would be
provided on 370 ha of the cane land presently irrigated. Approximately 400 ha
of additional nucleus estate land would be irrigated from a new dam to be
built on the Kuramojo river. A groundwater study also would be undertaken to
ascertain the potential for future expansion of irrigation (para. 4.15).
Drainage (Annex 5)
4.05      The Project would provide for the construction of drainage installa-
tions on 15,030 ha of the Nyanza Sugar Belt affected by adverse drainage;
9,180 ha would be located in Miwani zone, 4,510 ha in Chemelil zone and 1,340
ha in Muhoroni zone (Maps IBRD 12992 and IBRD 12993). Vehicles and equipment
for the maintenance of drainage works and roads by the sugar companies
would be provided. It also would be necessary to carry out improvement work
on some of the natural waterways; this would include desilting, cleaning banks
and-some realigning. The Project would provide for topographic mapping of the
Kano plains to facilitate implementation of the scheme and allow for future
planning of a regional drainage scheme (para. 4.15).
Agricultural Development (Annex 6)
4.06      Nucleus Estates.  Cane production on the companies' nucleus estates
would be increased through improved husbandry on existing cane lands, reclama-
tion of fallow cane lands and development of new land:



- Ii -
Miwani   Chemelil  Muhoroni   Ramisi   Total
---------------(hectares)------------------
Improved Husbandry                 3,200      3,000      1,200      4,700   12,100
Reclaimed Fallow Land                -          -          600        -         600
Development of New Land              -          -          400      1,690    2,090
Total                         3,200      3,000      2,200     6,390   14,790
A new agricultural department would be established at Muhoroni and the exist-
ing departments in the other companies strengthened through provision of
staff, vehicles, equipment and service and support facilities.  All agricul-
tural departments would be fully equipped to carry out the required mechanized
agricultural operations and to transport their own cane to the factories.
4.07      Outgrowers.  The development program for outgrower farmers is
summarized below:
Miwani    Chemelil  Muhoroni   Ramisi   Total
----------------(hectares)-----------------
Improved Husbandry                 6,630 /a   8,500       5,700        800   21,630
Reclaimed Fallow Land                 500        300        900         -      1,700
Development of New Land            3,070 /a   1,000       4,700      2,450   11,220
Total                10,200       9,800    11,300       3,250   34,550
Of Which
Large Farmers                 4,900       6,200      2,000        480   13,580
Smallholders                  5,300       3,600     9,300      2,770   20,970
/a   Includes portions of the Ahero scheme.
The number of smallholders would be increased by about 4,500; no increase
would take place in the number of large farmers. The development of small-
holder land would be undertaken by the sugar companies' agricultural depart-
ments, which would also provide some services to large farms. The departments
would be adequately staffed for this purpose and would acquire the necessary
machinery and equipment. Land suitability, mapping and soils studies would be
carried out in the Nyanza Sugar Belt (para 4.15).
4.08      Cane Harvesting and Transport (Annex 7).  An integrated system
for-harvesting, loading, transporting and unload:Lng nucleus estate and
outgrowers cane would be established in each sugar company. New equipment
would be provided for the sugar companies and existing equipment modified
as necessary and adapted for the proposed cane handling and transport system.
4.09      Research and Training.  The sugar companies' agricultural depart-
ments would be staffed and equipped to conduct agronomic research in colla-
boration with the National Sugar Research Institute (para 4.14). The research



- 12 -
activities would center on variety, herbicide and fertilizer trials; soil
analysis; maturity testing; disease and pest control; and seed cane prepara-
tion (Annex 6). Senior staff of the companies' agricultural departments would
be sent abroad to attend 4-6 months courses in sugarcane husbandry and field
trial methodology; 25 staff members would participate over a five-year period.
In addition, 27 supervisory extension personnel would receive training abroad
in the form of three-months courses in extension methods. Lower-level exten-
sion staff would be trained at the Kibos training center (para. 4.14) when
that is established (Annex 8).
The Sugar Factories (Annex 9)
4.10      The Project would rehabilitate and expand three of the four Project
factories. (The Chemelil factory has recently been rehabilitated and expanded
and its present capacity of 2,300 tons cane per day is adequate to handle its
projected cane supplies within the proposed 260 day annual operating season.)
The capacity of the Miwani factory would be increased by 10% to 2,200 tons
cane per day (TCD), Muhoroni's capacity would be increased by 20% to 2,400
TCD, and Ramisi's capacity would be increased by 55% to 1,550 TCD. In general
the factory component would include rehabilitation of existing facilities to
ensure long-term operational reliability and expansion of capacity to handle
the projected cane supplies. Consultancy services would be provided through
the Kenya Sugar Authority to review and approve the factories' rehabilitation
plans (para. 4.15); the disbursement of funds for factory rehabilitation and
expansion would be conditional on this review and approval. In order to
strengthen management's technical expertise, some 29 senior factory personnel
would participate on overseas tours to visit well-managed sugar factories.
General Management and Administration
4.11      The sugar companies' general management and administration would
be strengthened through provision of office machines, equipment and furniture
and a total of some 65 additional staff, 23 of whom would be at senior man-
agerial and administrative levels. The Project would also include general
expenses for personnel, accounting services, and other overheads incurred as
a result of the Project. Finally, provision would be made to cover the
incremental management fees generated by increased company profits.
Infrastructure
4.12      Roads (Annex 10).  The road network in the Project area would be
improved and expanded. The civil works construction activities would include:
tarmac surfacing of 24 km of classified roads and of the factory access roads
at Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni; upgrading of about 200 km of classified
roads and 54 km of unclassified roads; and new construction of about 160 km
of unclassified roads, and 275 km of tracks, bridges and crossings (Maps IBRD
12994, 12993, and 13062). In total, some 678 km of roads would be affected;
243 km would be improved and 435 km would be constructed.
4.13      Housing and Other Facilities (Annex 10).  Housing would be provided
for about 3,200 company staff; a large proportion of these facilities would



- 13 -
consist of structures housing up to 8 persons. All necessary infrastructure
such as lighting, water supply, sewage disposal, community streets, etc.,
would also be provided. Other facilities to be constructed include a dis-
pensary at Muhoroni and Ramisi, a workers' club and multi-purpose building at
Muhoroni, and other buildings for offices, storage, garages, etc. at Miwani,
Muhoroni and Ramisi. An architectural firm for design and for supervision of
construction would be appointed either jointly or individually by the com-
panies under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; an assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations.
The National Sugar Research Institute
4.14      The National Sugar Research Institute (NSRI) would be reorganized and
strengthened through provision of additional personnel and equipment (Annex 6).
A national cane breeding program would be re-established at Mtwapa Research
Station. Liaison and coordination with the sugar companies would be improved.
A fully-equipped agricultural training center would be established at Kibos
to provide courses in cane husbandry and extension for personnel of the sugar
companies, cooperative societies and unions, and Farmers Training Centers; six
NSRI staff, who would serve as instructors, would attend a 4-6 months training
course abroad before conducting courses at the center. Twelve staff houses
would be built and laboratory facilities would be expanded.
The Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA)
4.15      KSA would be the executing agency for four studies.  The studies
would determine the viability of the extension of sugarcane production into
the Nandi Hills (Annex 2), complete the soils investigation in all Project
areas (Annex 2), conduct a groundwater investigation in and around the
Ramisi Project area (Annex 4), and undertake topographical mapping of the
entire Kano plains (Annex 5). The studies would be carried out by consultants
in cooperation with staff of KSA and the various Ministries concerned. KSA
would also engage a consultant to assist it in the review and approval of the
sugar companies' detailed factory rehabilitation plans (para 4.10). The terms
and conditions of the consultants' appointments would be acceptable to the
Bank; an assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations. The
Project would also provide agricultural and extension training abroad for
23 individuals under KSA auspices to meet future industry needs (Annex 8).
The unit costs of Technical Assistance are estimated to range from US$2,000
to US$6,000 per man/month. This range is wide because technical assistance
to the factories would be provided at a cost well below conventional rates,
while other technical services would be priced at current international rates.
C. Project Cost (Annnex 11)
4.16      Total Project cost is estimated at KShs. 1,104 million (US$138
million), of which about US$71.8 million or about 52% represents foreign
exchange requirements. Total Project cost is detailed below:



- 14 -
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
---(KShs. Million)-     --(US$ Million)----           %
Irrigation                      21.9    23.2      45.1    2.7      2.9     5.6       51
Drainage                        26.4    31.5      57.9    3.4      3.9      7.3      55
Agriculture                    155.8   183.7    339.5   19.4    23.0    42.4         54
Sugar Factories                 60.7    97.5    158.2    7.6    12.2    19.8         62
General Company Manage-
ment & Administration          16.9    13.8      30.7    2.1      1.7      3.8      45
Roads                           31.4    28.9      60.3    3.9      3.6      7.5      48
Housing and Other Facilities  54.8    22.7        77.5    6.9      2.8      9.7      29
National Sugar Research
Institute                     3.4      3.8       7.2    0.4      0.5     0.9       53
Kenya Sugar Authority            1.5     2.9       4.4    0.2      0.4     0.6,      65
Subtotal                  372.8   408.0    780.8   46.6    51.0    97.6          52
Contingency Allowances:
Physical                   48.8    54.4    103.2    6.1        6.8    12.9       53
Price                     107.6   112.3    219.9   13.5    14.0    27.5          51
Total Project Cost             529.2   574.7  1,103.9   66.2    71.8   138.0         52
Costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail in September 1978.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been included on all Project components
except on irrigation and drainage investments, to which a physical contingency
of 35% was applied because final engineering designs have not yet been pre-
pared. Price contingencies 1/ are based on IBRD/IDA guidelines and mission
estimates (Annex 11, Appendix 1). Local taxes estimated at Ksh.76.5 million
(US$9.6 million) are included in the above Project cost estimates.
1/   The following rates were applied to different investment categories:
1978     1979      1980-83
Foreign Costs
Civil Works                  8        7.5         7
Equipment (including
inputs)                    7        6.5         6
Technical Assistance          7       6.5         6
Local Costs                  10       9           8



- 15 -
D. Financing (Alnex 15, Table 25)
4.17      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
Sources of Financing              (US$ Million)        %
World Bank                                 72.0             56
African Development Bank                    6.0              5
GOK                                         3.5              3
Miwani                                      8.5              6
Chemelil                                  14.9              12
Muhoroni                                   14.3             11
Ramisi                                      9.2              7
Cost Net of Taxes/Duties            128.4            100
Taxes and Duties                      9.6
Total Project Cost                  138.0
The World Bank loan of US$72.0 million to the Government of Kenya would be
at the interest rate effective at the time of Board presentation, with a
repayment period of 20 years, including a moratorium on principal of 5 years.
This loan would cover funds for the Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi sugar com-
panies (US$57.6 million) and other components to be implemented by Government
(US$14.4 million). Of the funds for the companies, US$15.4 million would be
by loan to Miwani; US$3.4 million would be an equity contribution and US$15.8
million a loan to Muhoroni; and US$1.8 million would be an equity contribu-
tion and US$21.2 million a loan to Ramisi. Government would onlend funds to
the companies at 10.5% annual interest for 20 years with 5 years of grace
(except to Ramisi where the grace period would be 8 years). The companies
would take the foreign exchange risk on direct foreign exchange expenditures,
while Government would take this risk on local currency expenditures. These
terms are consistent with DFC guidelines. Funds for road construction would
be made available by Government to the companies on a grant basis. It would
be a condition of disbursement to an individual company that an executed
agreement between the Government and that company covering investment and
onlending terms had been signed. The African Development Bank (ADB) loan of
US$6.0 million to the Government of Kenya would be on standard ADB terms, and
would finance the cost of machinery and workers' housing at Ramisi. Total
external financing of US$78.0 million would cover 61% of total Project costs
net of taxes and duties, or 100% of total foreign exchange costs and 9% of
local costs. The World Bank contribution would finance 56% of total costs.
The analysis shows that the companies' annual cash flows with the rehabilita-
tion loans would be adequate. Short-term cash flow deficits, however, may
occur during the initial project years and, therefore, an assurance was
obtained at negotiations that Government would arrange for the companies
seasonal working capital financing in case they cannot secure the necessary
loans from commercial lending institutions. Retroactive financing of up to



- 16 -
US$4.8 million would be provided from the Bank loan for specified expenditures
(Annex 11, Table 34) incurred between November 1977 and the date of loan
signing; these funds would be required to finance some preliminary studies,
the purchase of essential vehicles and equipment, and the construction of
houses. While this period is longer than usual, the Project has been delayed
for some time by the need to review the Project and companies have been pro-
ceeding with investments against short-term borrowings.
4.18      Government would contribute US$2.7 million to finance a share of
Project costs related to irrigation, drainage, roads and research. The
balance of Government's contribution to Project costs (US$0.8 million) would
finance an increase in Ramisi equity capital in order to improve the company's
capitalization. A parent company loan to Ramisi and the existing capital
reserves would be converted into equity. Existing reserves would also be
converted into equity at Miwani and Muhoroni. The resulting level of capi-
talization of the three companies would be financially acceptable (paras.
6.05, 6.07, 6.08). The conversion of the loan and reserves into equity would
be a condition of loan disbursement to Ramisi, Miwani, and Muhoroni companies.
E. Procurement
4.19      The companies' procurement of agricultural vehicles and equipment
and of office machines and furniture (US$9.0 million, including contingen-
cies), new sugar factory machinery and equipment (US$14.8 million), and
incremental fertilizers ($4.9 million) would be by international competitive
bidding, following Bank guidelines; orders would be bulked to the maximum
extent possible. Local manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of
15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Orders for less than
US$100,000 would be procured in accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory. Procurement of vehicles and equipment for the National Sugar
Research Institute would be in accordance with local procedures as orders
would not exceed US$100,000. Procurement for the National Sugar Research
Institute would be through the Ministry of Agriculture. Civil works contracts
for the construction of houses and social amenities (US$7.3 million), irriga-
tion and drainage (US$13.2 million) and of roads under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Works (US$2.9 million) would be procured by international
competitive bidding except for contracts or items costing less than US$200,000.
As detailed designs are not available for the proposed irrigation and drainage
works, Bank approval of each scheme would be required following preparation
and cost estimates of the final designs. Prequalified local firms would be
given a 7-1/2% preference margin in the evaluation of their bids. The con-
struction of access roads and tracks under the responsibility of the companies
(US$3.7 million) would be partly undertaken by the companies with their own
equipment and staff but generally would be carried out by local contractors
to be selected under local procurement procedures. The companies also would
rehabilitate and expand existing factory equipment and facilities (US$4.5
million) with their own equipment and staff and local contractors as required.
Land preparation, cane planting operations, and field maintenance (US$6.0
million) would be carried out by the sugar companies with their own equipment



- 17 -
and staff. Draft tender documents for all contracts expected to cost in
excess of US$300,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval before
invitations are issued, and bid analysis and recommendation for award would
be submitted to the Bank for comment before contracts are awarded. Standard
equipment lists are shown in Annex 9, Table 1, and Annex 11, Tables 21-23.
Assurances that the above procedures would be followed were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Disbursement (Annex 12)
4.20      Funds from the Loan account would be disbursed in accordance with
Schedule A. Disbursements would be fully documented, with the exception that
expenditures for salaries, companies' staff training, fertilizers, land pre-
paration, planting operations, field maintenance, and KSA training activities
and studies would be reimbursed against statements of expenditure, the docu-
mentation for which would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained
by the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. Reimbursable expendi-
tures for operations included in land preparation, cane planting and field
maintenance would be determined on the basis of unit rates approved by KSA
and the area on which these operations were performed as certified by KSA.
An estimated disbursement schedule and Project implementation schedules are
given in Annex 12.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.21      Separate accounts geared to producing cost control and management
information related to all of their operations would be kept by the sugar
companies. The sugar companies would also maintain the credit accounts for
individual outgrowers. Separate accounts also would be kept by the Kenya
Sugar Authority, the National Sugar Research Institute and other Government
agencies concerned. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the above accounts would be maintained, that the accounts of KSA, NSRI and the
Companies would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
that the accounts and auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of their fiscal year. In addition the sugar com-
panies' unaudited accounts and reports would be submitted within four months
of the close of their fiscal year. The Government will also make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, for the audit of expenditures made against a certi-
ficate of expenditures (para. 4.20).
H. Ecological Effects
4.22      All factories are in the process of installing additional effluent
treatment facilities to comply with Government standards. The development of



- 18 -
new cane areas and construction of roads and housing facilities are not ex-
pected to have any adverse environmental effects. Health requirements would
be taken fully into account in the design of the irrigation and drainage
systems so as to reduce the incidence of schistosomiasis. Precautions would
be taken in the construction process to avoid environmental damage and undue
disruptions in downstream water flows. Because of the more rapid evacuation
of rainfall from the Project area as a result of the drainage scheme to be
developed under the Project, the effects of the periodic temporary floodings
near Lake Victoria would be aggravated. Although the severity of these
effects cannot be accurately predicted, it is judged not to pose an unaccept-
able risk. To facilitate remedial future action, Government would prepare
before June 30, 1982 a regional drainage and development plan for the whole
Kano plains; topographic mapping for this plan would be provided under the
Project (para. 4.15). Assurances that this plan would be prepared, and that
all Project activities would be executed with due regard to environmental
factors, were obtained at negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation
5.01      Implementation of the drainage component and the irrigation schemes
at Kibos, Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi would be supervised by consultants
appointed and supervised by KSA. A technical committee consisting of staff of
KSA, NIB, the National Sugar Research Institute and the Ministry of Water
Development would assist in drawing up the consultants' terms of reference
and in monitoring progress. The consultants would be responsible for design
and engineering, preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids and
supervision of construction by contractors. The terms and conditions of
appointment of the consultants would have to be satisfactory to the Bank;
an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations. The conver-
sion of the Ahero pilot scheme to sugarcane would be undertaken by NIB.
After construction, NIB would supervise the operation of all irrigation
schemes and collect water charges as appropriate (para. 6.11). The sugar
companies would be responsible, within their respective zones, for all agri-
cultural development, factory improvements, housing, upgrading and construc-
tion of roads and tracks, and company research and training. The Ministry
of Works would be responsible for the construction of new and upgrading of
existing classified roads in all areas, of unclassified roads in large-farm
areas, of all roads in Chemelil zone, and for the construction of bridges
and-other major structures. Engineering consultants would be appointed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank if the Ministry's staff
should be unable to undertake this task themselves; assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations. The Ministry of Agriculture would be respon-
sible for the strengthening of the National Sugar Research Institute (para.
4.14). The Kenya Sugar Authority would be the executing agency for the
required studies, conduct specific staff training (para. 4.15), establish and
administer the Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund (para. 5.06), and oversee



- l J -
implementation regarding rezoning of the Sugar Belt (para 3.02). The Chief
Executive of KSA wouid act as chairman of the Sugar Belt Coordinating Com-
mittee, which would be established lnder the Project.
B. Outgrowers' Organization
5.02      In each production zone the sugar company would have overall respon-
sibility for planning and coordination of production, harvesting, transport
and processing of sugarcane. Outgrowers would be registered with the company
and, in addition, would be required to enter into a cane supply contract
with the company if annual cane production exceeds 20 tons or if the company
provides agricultural services and inputs to the outgrower. Under the terms
and conditions of the cane supply contract smallholders would be required to
join with other farmers to form blocks of land of sufficient size for effi-
cient production of cane; the minimum block size would be either 10 ha or an
appropriate size determined by the sugar company. Boundaries of individual
plots within a block would be preserved. The company generally would finance
the outgrower operations through an outgrower loan and deduct the principal
of the loan plus interest from the payment to the outgrower for cane delivered
to the factory. These loans would be made at an interest rate of 11%, the
market rate currently charged outgrowers in South Nyanza. The company would
maintain detailed accounts for each outgrower and operate an adequate cost
accounting system to determine the costs of its operations and establish
appropriate charges. Goods and services would be provided to outgrowers at
cost.
5.03      The cooperative unions and societies would be an integral part
of the outgrowers organization; they would become a party to members' cane
supply contracts and represent members' interests vis-a-vis the sugar com-
panies and KSA. Each company would inform the cociperatives of all matters
pertaining to outgrower cane production in its zone and establish a close
working relationship with them. The cooperative societies would organize
their members to become contract cane growers, facilitate the delivery of
services by the company and assist the contracting parties in meeting their
respective obligations. The unions would continue to administer the Coop-
erative Production Credit Scheme. All participating unions and societies
would have to be economically viable and have their financial statements kept
up to date and audited. SBCU would where possible recover outstanding debts
of more than one year from farmers, or where appropriate reschedule or where
the loan is considered non-recoverable write off such debts. SBCU's debts to
the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK) would be adjusted by corresponding amounts
and-the Government would in turn indemnify CBK. An assurance to this effect
was obtained from Government during negotiations. Furthermore, assurances
were obtained that the Ministry of Cooperative Development would provide
assistance and training to the unions and societies to enable them to meet
their obligations under the Project.



- 20 -
5.04      The Sugar Settlement organization (SSO) would endeavor to establish
a viable settlement structure in the Sugar Settlement Scheme and collect
outstanding debts from farmers. In order to resolve the problem of absentee
owners in the Scheme, it would conduct by September 30, 1979, a census of
settlement farmers so as to determine the number and status of absentee
owners; it would also prepare by the same date a detailed plan satisfactory to
the Bank for allocating both the responsibility and costs of cultivating the
plots owned by these absentees. An assurance that the above procedure would
be followed was obtained at negotiations.
C. Organization and Management of the Sugar Companies
5.05      The sugar companies would be reorganized in an effort to improve
their operational efficiency. All companies would have to establish, in
addition to their existing units, an Outgrowers Division, a separate Factory
Control Division, Cost Accounts Division, Materials and Planning Division,
Roads and Drainage Maintenance Unit, and staff units for agronomic research,
budgeting, auditing, salaries administration and staff training and recruit-
ment. The existing management agreements with Bookers Agricultural and
Technical Services, Ltd. at Chemelil, Uketa Development Corporation, Ltd.
at Muhoroni and EMCO (Kenya) Ltd. at Ramisi would continue in force, as the
implementation of the parts of the Projects assigned to the companies would
be within the scope of these agreements. During the Project implementation
period, the Bank would be consulted prior to entry into new or termination of
existing agreements; an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
The owners of Miwani would continue to operate that company through their own
management staff. The management contract between EMCO and Ramisi continues
until 1990. Employment of management firms for Muhoroni and Chemelil is
assured so that consultation with the Bank, prior to entering into new agree-
ments in 1980 and 1981 respectively and thereafter, is adequate.
5.06      The sugar companies would maintain the sugar roads and drainage
works within their respective zones. They would be reimbursed for their
maintenance expenditures by KSA from the Roads and Drainage Maintenance
Fund (RDMF), which Government would establish and KSA would administer.
The RDMF would receive funds from a levy on sugar, to be collected by KNTC
on behalf of KSA, which would not be a new tax on sugar but represent a cor-
responding reduction in existing taxes or levies. KSA would disburse funds
to the companies only after the companies' satisfactory work performance had
been certified by the Ministry of Works' Provincial Roads Engineer for roads
and the Ministry of Water Development's Provincial Chief Engineer for drain-
age. The cost of maintaining infield drains and private roads and tracks
would not be reimbursed from the RDMF but would be borne by the owner of the
land. Agreement on the establishment of the RDMF and the proposed procedures
to be followed was reached at negotiations.
5.07      Agricultural cane harvest labor requirements would increase by about
2,000 persons due to the Project. To alleviate potential shortages of cane
harvest labor the Ministry of Labor would review the market for such labor in



- 21 -
collaboration with KSA and the labor unions and prepare a plan for improvement
in labor supply and in employment conditions, acceptable to the Bank, before
December 31, 1979. Specific proposals would be prepared for Ramisi, due to
the very real shortage of workers at that site.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Production
6.01      Project yield projections are based on actual yields being obtained
in a number of locations by private farmers and the nucleus estates. Pests
and diseases would not pose any serious problems, but drought conditions
would depress yields significantly one year in five and have been taken into
account in the yield projections. The cane yield assumptions on which incre-
mental Project production estimates have been based are given below. The
projected yield levels would be reached within the first crop cycle in Miwani,
Chemelil and Muhoroni but would be achieved only gradually in Ramisi.
Miwani          Chemelil         Muhoroni         Ramisi
(tons/ha/year)
Without   With    Without   With   Without  With   Without   With
Project  Project  Project  Project Project Project Project  Project
Rainfed
Nucleus Estate   35        44        45        49       28       43       20     40
Large Farms       28       39        36        45       40       50       19     32
Cooperatives      28       36        30        38       30       43       23     39
Settlement       -         -         30        38       30       41        -      -
Irrigated           75       75        -         75       -        75       50     70



- 22 -
6.02      The Project's incremental production of cane and sugar is esti-
mated to develop as follows:
Average
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985-89
('000 tons)
Cane Production a/
Miwani                             --      --     92    155    186         257
Chemelil                           --      --     59      99    115        156
Muhoroni                           --      --    141    232    268         365
Ramisi                             --      35     86    148    166         276 b/
Total                           --     35    378    634    735        1,054
Sugar Production a/ d/
Miwani                              1       3     13      20     23         30
Chemelil                           --      --      6      10      12        16
Muhoroni                           --      --     14      23      27        36
Ramisi                              -       4      9      15      17        27 b/
Total                            1 c/   7c/  42        68     79        109
a/   Production is incremental to projected levels without the Project but
with rezoning (para 5.01).
b/   Represents 1986-88 average to reflect full development.
c/   Production resulting from improved extraction rates.
d/   Extraction rates (sugar made as percent of cane) have varied greatly
among companies and over time in Kenya. The Project's sugar projec-
tions are based on 10% extraction from the outset for Chemelil and
Muhoroni; 8.6%, 9.0%, 9.4% and 9.8%, respectively, for Years 1-4 and
10% thereafter for Miwani; and 7.2%, 7.2%, 8.25%, 8.5% and 8.75%, re-
spectively, for Years 1-5 and 9% thereafter for Ramisi.
Markets and Prices (Annex 14)
6.03      With an annual growth of 3.5-4.5% in per capita consumption after
1978 and a projected population of 21.5 million in 1989, total sugar consump-
tion would reach 490,000-550,000 tons by 1989. The production of established
areas without rehabilitation but including production from projects currently
being implemented would amount to 430,000 tons in 1989, thus creating a
domestic deficit in the range of 60,000-120,000 tons in 1989. The Project
would raise domestic sugar output to about 540,000 tons in 1989 and thus,
under the lower per capita growth assumptions, create a temporary surplus.
The magnitude of the surplus would depend on the success with which the new
projects actually can be implemented, on improvements in the distribution
system (para 5.07) and on Government's sugar retail price policy (para 6.04).



- 23 -
Under the assumptions detailed in Annex 14, Table 6, annual surpluses would be
expectei t- hbuild up from the early 1980's, peak in 1986/87 (about 75,000 tons)
and again turn into deficits by about 1990/91.  Kenya's cost of production of
sugar is close to the Bank's projection of the export parity price for 1985.
Disposal of the estimated surpluses to neighboring countries and other markets
should not pose major problems for the amounts projected. In view of the
uncertainties surrounding projected industry production and the fact that
Kenya's domestic production would fall short without the Project, it has been
assumed that the Project's output would replace imports. However, any further
additional sugar factory would add about 60,000-70,000 tons which then almost
certainly would have to be exported. It is therefore critical that the timing
and content of any further investments in sugar capacity in Kenya be closely
examined. Assurances were therefore obtained that the Government would keep
the projected production and consumption of sugar in Kenya under continuous
review and furnish the Bank a report covering both the results of this review
and Government plans for any anticipated investments in sugar over the subse-
quent three year period; the first report should be available by December 31,
1979 and subsequent reports would be furnished annually until December 31,
1988. In addition, the Government agreed to inform the Bank promptly of any
plans to promote or invest in any substantial sugar milling facilities and
afford the Bank an opportunity to comment on such investments.
6.04      The world market price of sugar, expressed in January, 1978 con-
stant dollar terms, is projected at USJ12.8/lb for 1980 and USJ16.5/lb for
1985, raw f.o.b. Caribbean ports, compared with USU13.5/lb in 1976 and USJ24.2/
lb in 1975 (Annex 14). The evaluation is based on import substitution prices
for sugar of KShs. 3,675/t for the period 1978-84, and KShs. 4,108/t for 1985
and onwards. Molasses would be exported at a price of KShs. 350/t f.o.b.
Mombasa. The Project's financial analysis is based on an ex-mill price of
sugar of KShs. 2,800/t (in 1978 value terms) and a factory gate price of
sugarcane of KShs. 133/t. However, those prices need to be reviewed period-
ically to maintain them at adequate levels to provide incentives to the cane
growers and sugar mills. It was agreed during negotiations that the Govern-
ment will set producer and consumer prices so that: (i) producers supply
enough cane to ensure adequate capacity utilization; (ii) the factories can
earn reasonable profits after tax assuming efficient operation; (iii) the
margins allowed wholesalers and retailers are adequate to earn reasonable
profits assuming efficient operation; and (iv) the demand for sugar is equated
to domestic supply plus an acceptable level of imports, provided that in
setting ex-factory prices the Government shall use as a benchmark an appro-
priate average of the costs of importing sugar. The Government also agreed
that before each annual agricultural price review of sugar prices it would
discuss with the Bank how the criteria should affect existing prices.
The Companies' Financial Results (Annex 15)
6.05      Miwani.  With estimated Project investments of KShs. 212.4 million
(US$26.6 million) the company would require loan financing of KShs. 123.3
million (US$15.4 million) to meet expenditures. By the end of Year 11 the
company would have an outstanding long-term debt of KShs. 62 million and net



- 24 -
worth of KShs. 220 million, representing an adequate ratio of debt to worth
of 22:78. Return on net assets would be 7% at full development in Project
Year 11. The company's internal financial rate of return on Project invest-
ments over a period of 25 years would be 34%.
6.06      Chemelil.  The Chemelil Project component would require an invest-
ment of KShs. 129.6 million (US$16.2 million). The company would not require
an additional loan as virtually all expenditures would be financed by inter-
nally generated funds. Return on net assets would be 7% at full development.
The financial rate of return on Project investments would be 23%.
6.07      Muhoroni.  Expansion of the present factory capacity and additional
agricultural development would cost KShs. 271.4 million (US$33.9 million) and
would require a loan of KShs. 126.3 million (US$15.8 million). By the end of
Year 11 the company would have outstanding long-term debt of KShs. 61 million
and net worth of KShs. 195 million, representing an adequate ratio of debt to
worth of 24:76. Return on net assets would be 10% at full development, and
the financial rate of return on Project investments would be 24%.
6.08      Ramisi.  Total investment costs are estimated at KShs. 311.5 million
(US$38.9 million). The company would require a loan of KSHs. 216.5 million
(US$27.2 million) to meet Project expenditures. It would operate with losses
up to Year 6, but would generate profits thereafter. The internal financial
rate of return on Project investments would be 16%. By the end of Year 11,
overall return on net assets would be 8%, and the company would have outstand-
ing long-term debt of KSHs. 132 million and net worth of KShs. 48 million,
representing an acceptable debt to worth ratio of 73:27. The company's
longterm debt, however, would reach a high of KShs. 178 million in Year 6,
while net worth would be reduced due to accumulated losses. Government's
equity investment of KSh. 20.8 million, and the conversion of a parent com-
pany loan of KSh. 17.6 million to equity capital would strengthen Ramisi's
capitalization (para. 4.18).
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange (Annex 15)
6.09      The Government would receive KShs. 353.7 million (US$44.2 million)
from Project-related revenues and KShs. 162.7 million (US$20.3 million) in
debt service payments from the companies. Total cash inflow during the
initial six-year period would be KShs. 1,167.7 million (US$145.9 million).
Total cash outflows would amount to KShs. 859.2 million (US$107.4 million),
producing a cumulative net surplus for the Government budget of KShs. 308.5
million (US$38.6 million). The inflow of foreign exchange as external loans
is estimated at KShs. 624 million (US$78.0 million); molasses exports would
earn another KShs. 27.1 million (US$3.4 million). The foreign exchange
content of Project investments and operations would be KShs. 678.0 million
(US$84.7 million) and debt service on external loans KShs. 221.2 million
(US$27.65 million). Total outflows of foreign exchange thus would be KShs.
899.2 million (US$112.4 million) and exceed actual inflows by KShs. 220.8
million (US$27.6 million). However, the value of foreign exchange savings
through import substitution of sugar produced under the Project would be
KShs. 838.7 million (US$104.8 million), resulting in a positive effect on the



- 25 -
country's foreign exchange balance of KShs. 617.9 million (US$77.2 million)
for the six-year development period. Annual net foreign exchange savings
including debt service payments would be about KShs. 250 million (US$31.3
million) in Year 8, expressed in constant 1978 prices, and continue to in-
crease thereafter.
Farmer Benefits and Irrigation Cost Recovery (Annex 15)
6.10      Of the total Project cane area of 49,340 ha, 28% would be in large
farms, 42% in smallholder farms and 30% in nucleus estates. The 10,800 small-
holder participants would achieve average net returns of KShs. 2,400/ha per
year based on a cane price of KShs. 133/ton, average net cash costs of
KShs. 74/t and yield estimates presented in Annex 6. Annual net returns per
hectare would vary considerably and be about KShs. 2,020 in Miwani, KShs.
2,280 in Chemelil, KShs. 2,770 in Muhoroni and KShs. 1,790 in Ramisi. With
irrigation, farmers at Ahero would average KShs. 2,850/ha, assuming full cost
recovery over a 15-year period. The Project's effect on farm family income
would depend on the size of the holding, location and whether or not cane was
previously grown on the farm. At Miwani, for example, the average net annual
incremental income under rainfed conditions is estimated at KShs. 3,560 per
farm without previous cane, and KShs. 1,000 for an established grower, assuming
a cane area of 2 ha per farm. These represent increases of about 190% and
25%, respectively. At full development, total annual smallholder income per
capita would average KShs. 900 (US$113) with the Project. Cane farmers' cash
flows typically would be very uneven from year to year. Smallholders' income
risks would be minimized by not requiring any cash contributions from them,
and rescheduling the repayment of credit in the event of crop failures.
6.11      The National Irrigation Board would, on behalf of the Government,
fully recover over a reasonable period of time and at reasonable interest
rates all those capital and recurrent irrigation costs not borne by the
sugar companies. These are primarily related to the conversion of the Ahero
scheme, but minor public expenses would also accrue with respect to the
irrigation of parts of the nucleus estates at Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi.
An assurance that costs would be fully recovered was obtained at negotiations.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The primary direct benefits of the Project would be increased pro-
duction and consumption of sugar and a reduction of sugar imports. Existing
facilities would be used more fully, hence, economic returns on existing
investments increased. The Project's beneficiaries would be primarily the
Government, the owners of Miwani and Ramisi, a number of large cane producers,
some 10,800 smallholder producers, approximately 1,080 persons gaining wage
employment, and a large portion of existing company personnel whose employment
and living conditions would be improved.



- 26 -
7.02      The Project's overall internal economic rate of return is estimated
to be 33% over a 25-year period (Annex 16). The rates of return for the indi-
vidual factories would be 39% for Miwani, 37% for Chemelil, 35% for Muhoroni
and 24% for Ramisi. If those benefits accruing to non-Kenyans from their share
of equity ownership in the four factories were deducted, the rate of return of
the Project would be 29%. The rate of return attributable to drainage would
be 38%, and that to new irrigation in the Sugar Belt would be 46%. All
Project costs except 25% of the costs of roads and tracks, 60% of the cost of
the National Sugar Research Institute and 65% of the cost of the Kenya Sugar
Authority have been included in these calculations. All non-farm family labor
has been fully costed at market wage rates; farm family labor has been shadow-
priced at 55% of market wage rates. Also included as an economic cost has
been the net value of production foregone on 60% of the area newly developed
for sugarcane and of reduced production on 300 ha due to downstream flooding.
The value of the Project's incremental sugar output is based on import parity
prices as it would primarily substitute for sugar imports; molasses has been
valued on the basis of export parity prices. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits were shadow priced at KShs. 11.00 = US$1.00 (as compared to the
official rate of KShs 8.00 = US$1.00) in order to reflect the economic value
of foreign exchange to Kenya.
7.03      The risks most likely to affect the Project's economic rate of
return are uncertainties concerning the production and consumption of cane.
Should a further one or two factories be built, production could exceed
consumption by 150-200,000 tons per annum during the period 1985-89. While
Kenya could export at a slight profit in 1985-89 provided World Bank estimates
of future sugar prices are correct, there is nevertheless a significant risk
that prices could be lower. In this case, Government may be faced with the
difficult decision of either substantially subsidizing exports or discouraging
production through lowering cane prices. The latter course could jeopardize
the success of the project. At negotiations the Bank reached a clear under-
standing on Government's intentions with respect to expansion of facilities
in the next few years and a close dialogue will be maintained with Government
on any further expansion and the effect on the project. With a satisfactory
understanding with Government the risk is considered acceptable. Cane produc-
tion could be less than expected on account of problems in company-outgrower
relations and shortfalls in yields due to factors related to soils, weather
and the proposed technical package. A new outgrower organization is proposed
to reduce the risk of conflicts arising between the companies and outgrowers.
Cane yields and potential land availability have been estimated conservatively
in the evaluation to allow for some under-realization of the perceived po-
tential. Research activities would be strengthened to improve the technical
package of inputs and husbandry available to cane producers. Special atten-
ti6n was paid under the South Nyanza Sugar Project to the problem of estab-
lishing a cane price which would ensure an adequate incentive to producers.
If this price is maintained (para. 6.04), farmers should receive an attrac-
tive return on their investment. Cane harvest labor is becoming increasingly
scarce, particularly at Ramisi, because work in the cane fields is generally
disliked. However, mechanical harvesting would be expensive and difficult to
justify in the light of the country's widespread unemployment problem. To
provide relief for the near future, the Project would provide equipment for



- 27 -
the mechanical loading of cane and improve working and living conditions for
laborers. Government would review this problem and take steps for sustaining
an adequate supply of labor to the companies. Nevertheless, even if incre-
mental output or import substitution prices were 20% below expectation, the
Project would still show a rate of return of 24%; with increased costs of
10% the rate of return would be 29%. If foreign exchange were valued at the
prevailing exchange rate, the overall rate of return would be 29%. The risk
of increased costs of irrigation and drainage due to the lack of detailed
engineering design has been compensated for by the application of a special
contingency to cover this possiblity (para. 4.16).
VIII. RECO1MMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained from Government at Loan negotiations that:
(a) the onlending of funds for factory rehabilitation and
expansion would be conditional upon review and approval
by KSA of the companies' factory rehabilitation plans
(para. 4.10);
(b) an architectural firm for the design and supervision
of construction of houses and other buildings would be
appointed either jointly or individually by the sugar
companies under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para. 4.13);
(c) the Kenya Sugar Authority would appoint consultants under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to (i)
undertake studies and (ii) review and approve the sugar
companies' factory rehabilitation plans (para. 4.15);
(d) Government would arrange for short-term financing to be
provided to the companies in case they cannot secure the
necessary loans (para. 4.17);
(e) the proposed procurement procedures would be followed
(para. 4.19);
(f) adequate accounts would be maintained by all Project
entities, the accounts of KSA, NSRI and the Companies
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank and the accounts and auditors' reports would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close
of their fiscal year, and for the sugar companies'
unaudited accounts and reports would be submitted within
four months of the close of their fiscal year (para. 4.21);



- 28 -
(g) Government would prepare a regional drainage and develop-
ment plan for the whole Kano plains, acceptable to the
Bank, before December 31, 1981 and all Project activities
would be executed with due regard to environmental factors
(para. 4.22);
(h) consultants to implement the Project's irrigation and
drainage components would be appointed by KSA under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.01);
(i) should the Ministry of Works find it necessary to engage
engineering consultants, their terms and conditions of
appointment would have to be acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.01);
(j) SBCU would where possible recover outstanding debts
of more than one year from farmers, or where appropriate
reschedule or where the loan is not recoverable write
off such debts. SBCU debts to the Cooperative Bank
of Kenya would be adjusted by corresponding amounts
and the Government would in turn indemnify CBK (para. 5.30);
(k) the Ministry of Cooperatives would provide assistance
and training to the cooperative unions and societies to
enable them to meet their obligations under the Project
(para. 5.03);
(1) the SSO would by September 30, 1979 conduct a census of
settlement farmers, and would also prepare by the same
date a detailed plan satisfactory to the Bank for allo-
cating both the responsibility and the costs of cultivat-
ing the plots owned by absentee farmers (para. 5.04);
(m)  during the Project implementation period, the Bank would
be consulted prior to entry into new or termination of
existing management agreements by the sugar companies
(para 5.05);
(n) the Government would establish a Roads and Drainage
Maintenance Fund (RDMF) which KSA would administer
(para. 5.06);
(o) the Ministry of Labor would review the market for cane
harvest labor in collaboration with KSA and the labor
unions and prepare a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for
improvement in labor supply and in employment conditions
by December 31, 1979 (para. 5.07);
(p) until December 31, 1988 Government would consult with
the Bank before making or promoting investments in
additional sugar milling capacity in Kenya (para. 6.03);



- 29 -
(q) sugarcane, ex-mill and sugar retail prices would be re-
viewed periodically in consultation with the Bank (para
6.04); and
(r) the National Irrigation Board would endeavor to recover,
over a reasonable period of time and at reasonable in-
terest rates, all of Government's costs related to the
Project's irrigation component (para. 6.11).
8.02      Detailed obligations of the companies appear in the Loan Agreement,
and the Companies have undertaken to the Bank to perform these obligations in
separate Letter Agreements with the Bank.
8.03      Conditions of disbursements of Loan funds would be as follows:
(a) the disbursement of any funds to an individual sugar com-
pany would be conditional on the signing of an executed
agreement between Government and that company covering
investment and onlending terms (para 4.17); and
(b) the disbursement of funds to Ramisi, Miwani, and Muhoroni
companies would be conditional on the conversion into
equity of the existing parent company loan at Ramisi and
reserves at Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi (para. 4.18).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the Project would be
suitable for a Bank loan to the Government of Kenya of US$72.0 million for
20 years with 5 years of grace.



- 30 -
SCHEDULE A
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        Disbursements from the Loan account would be made over six years on
the following basis:
(a) Miwani Sugar Mills, Ltd.
(i) 100% of the foreign cost of imported agricultural
vehicles and equipment, office machines and furniture;
90% of the local cost when purchased locally (US$2.9
million);
(ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported sugar factory
machinery and equipment, and factory consultant's
fees; 90% of the local cost when purchased or hired
locally (US$3.8 million);
(iii) 90% of total expenditures for houses and social ameni-
ties, including architects' fees (US$2.6 million);
(iv) 90% of total expenditures for access roads and tracks
in smallholder areas, including engineering, construc-
tion, supervision and consultants' fees, but excluding
factory entrance roads (US$1.0 million);
(v) 90% of total expenditures for land preparation, cane
planting operations, field maintenance and incremental
fertilizers (US$2.4 million);
(vi) 100% of the foreign cost of company staff training and
incremental company salaries, excluding wages and
salaries of workers employed in the operation of the
factory, but including incremental factory management
and administrative salaries and non-factory salaries
and wages of the company; 90% of the cost of local staff
training and of staff hired locally (US$1.3 million);
(vii)  an amount of US$1.4 million to be allocated to the
above categories as required.
(b)  East African Sugar Industries, Ltd.
(i) 100% of the foreign cost of imported agricultural
vehicles and equipment, office machines and furniture;
90% of the local cost when purchased locally (US$4.6
million);



SCHEDULE A
Page 2
(ii)  100% of the foreign cost of imported sugar factory
machinery and equipment, and factory consultant's
fees; 90% of the local cost when purchased or hired
locally (US$2.0 million);
(iii) 90% of total expenditures for houses and social
amenities, including architects' fees (US$3.6 million);
(iv)  90% of total expenditures for irrigation in Muhoroni
sugar zone, including survey, design, construction
and supervision, and consultants' fees (US$1.3 million);
(v) 90% of total expenditures for access roads and tracks
in smallholder areas, including engineering, construc-
tion, supervision and consultants' fees, but excluding
factory entrance roads (US$1.4 million);
(vi)  90% of total expenditures for land preparation, plant-
ing operations and incremental fertilizers (US$2.2
million);
(vii) 100% of the foreign cost of company staff training
and incremental company salaries, excluding wages and
salaries of workers employed in the operation of the
factory, but including incremental factory management
and administrative salaries and non-factory salaries
and wages of the company; 90% of the cost of local
staff training and of staff hired locally (US$2.3
million);
(viii) an amount of US$1.8 million to be allocated to the
above categories as required.
(c) Associated Sugar Company, Ltd.
(i) 100% of the foreign cost of imported sugar factory
machinery and equipment, and factory consultant's
fees; 90% of the local cost when purchased or hired
locally (US$10.5 million);
(ii)  90% of total expenditures for irrigation in Ramisi
sugar zone, including survey, design, construction
and supervision, and consultants' fees (US$2.1 mil-
lion);
(iii) 90% of total expenditures for access roads and tracks
in smallholder areas, including engineering, construc-
tion supervision and consultants' fees, but excluding
factory entrance roads (US$1.0 million);



SCHEDULE A
-  32  -                             Page 3
(iv)  90% of total expenditures for land preparation, cane
planting operations, field maintenance and incremental
fertilizers (US$5.3 million);
(v) 100% of the foreign cost of company staff training
and incremental company salaries, excluding wages and
salaries of workers employed in the operation of the
factory, but including incremental factory management
and administrative salaries and non-factory salaries and
wages of the company; 90% of the cost of local staff
training and of staff hired locally (US$2.0 million);
(vi) an amount of US$2.1 million to be allocated to the above
categories as required.
(d) The Government and the Kenya Sugar Authority
(i) 50% of total expenditures for all classified roads,
access roads and tracks in large-farm areas in all
Project sugar zones, smallholder area access roads
and tracks in Chemelil sugar zone, and bridges and
other major road-related structures, including
engineering, construction and supervision, and
consultant's fees (US$2.5 million);
(ii)  90% of total expenditures for irrigation at Ahero
and Kibos, including survey, design, construction
and supervision, and consultant's fees (US$2.0 mil-
lion);
(iii)  100% of the foreign cost of imported vehicles,
equipment and furnishings, staff salaries plus
allowances and recruitment expenses, staff training,
and the construction of staff houses, a training
facility and laboratory for the National Sugar
Research Institute; 90% of the local cost of items
purchased, staff hired and contracts awarded locally
(US$0.8 million);
(iv)  100% of the foreign cost of staff training and studies
to be undertaken by the Kenya Sugar Authority; 90%
of the local cost of training and studies conducted
locally (US$0.5 million);
(v)  90% of total expenditures for drainage, including
survey, design, construction, supervision, and con-
sultants' fees (US$6.4 million);
(vi)  an amount of US$2.2 million additional to the above
categories and transferable to them as required.
November 1, 1978



- 33 -
SCHEDULE A
Page 4
(v)  90% of total expenditures for drainage, including
survey, design, construction, supervision, and con-
sultants' fees (US$6.4 million);
(vi)  an amount of US$2.2 million additional to the above
categories and transferable to them as required.
November 1, 1978



ANNEX 11
-  34  -                                                   Table 1
KE"
S5UGAR RE5ABILITA1 ON PROJECT
Su-nary of Project Costs by Component
(KShs . '000)
Foreign
Reference                                                                                         Exchange
Table       Year 1      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5     Year 6        TOTAL          Z
BASELINE COSTS
A.  Irrigation
Capital Costs                       3              750      12,514     13,162       6,370      6,970         579        40,345         52
Recurrent Costs                     3             --          --          829       1,T38      2,177                     4,744         50
Subtotal                            750      12,514     13,991       ,108        9,147        579        45,089         51
B.  Drainage
Capital Costs                       4            3,955      5,294       7,934       5,294      5,294       4,659        32,430         57
Recurrent Costs                     4             -_        6           6,282       6,432      6,582        --          25,428         52
Subtotal                          3,955      11,426     14,216      11,726      11,76       4,659        572,58         55
C' Agricullture
Capital Costs                     5-8           20,424     36,760      12,593      18,843      8,534       4,915       102,069         86
Recurrent Non-Variable Costs    9-12             8,270      13,053     14,366      16,243     16,207        --          68,139         29
Recurrent Variable Costs        13-20            4,953      18,279  _26060         51,225     68,818        --         169,335         45
Subtotal                         33,647      68,092     53,019      8,311      93,559       4,915       339,543         54
D:  Factory
Capital Costs                   21-23              9oo     16,459      42,188      39,831     17,967       5,140       122,485         64
Recurrent Non-Variable Costs   24-27              --           100      1,039       5,172      7,857        __          14,168         60
Recurrent Variable Costs        24-27             __                      722      795        139078                                   47
~7            (2      5140        l5;28            2
Subtotal                            900      16,559     43,949      72,98       38,95
E.  5ieneral Management and
Administration
Capital Costs                      28             --         1,200       --          --          --         --           1,200         69
Recurrent Costs                    28           1,415       5,410       5,601       7,749      9,320        __          29,495         44
Subtotal                         1,415       ,610        5,601       7,7         9,30        --          30,695         45
F.  Roads
Capital Costs                      29           3,990      24,102      12,430       6,750      6,866       1,131        55,269         48
Recturrent Costs                   30             --          --          978       1,798      2,222        --           4,998         48
Subtotal                         3,990       24,102     13,408       8,548       9,088       1,131       60,267         48
G. Housing and Social Amenities
Capital Costs                      31            3,858      24,724     23,582      22,244        --         --          74,408         29
Recurrent Costs                    31             __          --          571       1,044      1,488        --           3,103         30
Subtotal                          3,858      24,724     24,153      23,288       1,488       --          77,511         29
H.  Agricultural Research (NSRI)
Capital Costs                      32             --           211      2,233        --          --         --           2,444         40
Recurrent Costs                    32               50       1,288      1,340       1,390        718        --           4,786         59
Subtotal                             50       1,499      3,573       1,390         718       __           7,230         53
I. Kenya Sugar Authority Training
and Consultancies                33            2,256      1,743         194         122        122        --           4,437         65
Total Baseline Costs             50,821    167,269    172,104    200,040    174,220        16,424       780,878         52
CONTIN3ENCIES
A.  Physical                                         5,165      17,651      23,663     26,122      23,199       7,362      103,162         53
B.  Price                                            2.400      24.177     41,936      66.293      75.948      9.111       219,865         51
Total Contingencies               7,565      41,828     65,599      92,415      99,147      16,473      323,027         52
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               58,386    209,097    237,703    292,455    273,367         32,897    1,103,905         52
October 27, 1978



ANNEX 11
-  35  -                            Table 34
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Element Qualifying for Retroactive Financing 1/
(KShs. '000)
Reference                     Amount to be
Table No.          Cost       disbursed
A. MIWANI
Tractors for cane cultivation               5            1,800         1,600
Tractors for cane transport                 5            5,300         4,800
Cane loaders                                5            2,100         1,900
Trailers                                    5            2,200         2,000
Vehicles                                    5            3,100         2,800
Road Maintenance Equipment                 29            2,300         2,100
Total Miwani                             16,800        15,200
B. MUHORONI
Crawler Tractors                            7            4,500         4,000
Four wheel Drive Tractors                   7            4,400         4,000
Agricultural Equipment                       7           1,100         1,000
Cane loaders                                7            1,600         1,400
Trailers                                    7            2,400         2,200
Road Maintenance Equipment                 29            2,000         1,800
Total Muhoroni                           16,000        14,400
C. RAMISI
Irrigation Equipme7t                        3              500           400
Land Preparation 2
-  Outgrowers                             20            2,300         2,100
-  Nucleus Estate                         19            2,000         1,800
Factory Equipment                           23           3,800         3,400
Factory Consultants                        23               300          300
Total Ramisi                              8,900         8,000
D. -KENYA SUGAR AUTHORITY
Studies                                    33               900          800
GRAND TOTAL                              42,600        38,400
1/ Covers expenditures from November 1, 1977 onwards.
2/ Includes surveying, clearing, ripping, ploughing, harrowing, and furrowing.
October 17, 1978



ANNEX 12
_  36  -                      Table 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of World Bank Funds
(US$'000)
Bank Fiscal Year           Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter End             in Quarter                at End of Quarter
1979
September                        --                          __
December 1/                       --                         --
March  2/                         800                         800
June                            1,000                      1,800
1980
September                      1,400                       3,200
December                       2,500                       5,700
March                           3,200                      8,900
June                            3,800                     12,700
1981
September                      4,000                      16,700
December                       4,000                      20,700
March                          4,100                      24,800
June                           4,400                      29,200
1982
September                      4,400                      33,600
December                       4,500                      38,100
March                          4,500                      42,600
June                           4,400                      47,000
1983
September                      4,200                      51,200
December                       3,500                      54,700
March                          2,500                      57,200
June                           2,500                      59,700
1984
September                      2,000                      61,700
December                       2,000                      63,700
March                          1,800                      65,500
June                           1,800                      67,300
1985
September                      1,800                      69,100
December 3/                    1,600                      70,700
March                          1,300                      72,000
1/  Estimated quarter of signing of Loan Agreement.
2/ Estimated quarter of Loan Effectiveness.
3/ Estimated quarter of Project Completion.
June 2, 1978



-   37    -
KENYA
SURGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE.V
KEY ACTIVITIES                                                                                                                                                       ---
Ga.eR       inn      2nd       3,d      4nr,        lat      2srd  I3,d         4SA         lt       2nd       3,d       401,      1,t       2.d       3nd      4nn         Iss      2nd       3nd       411,       100       2nd       3rd       4iRi
IRRIGAT ON
Pn,,an Ten.de- & L..Cotrct---------------
En-f           -----------------                    .       :-----1  .....-.-          ...- ....-
GRAINASR
4  rMn Add.1l,n..  Staff
All C-ptana--  ----------   ----------
Stall T-arng
C An l Cer    o pnnan --- - ----- ---t-- -- ----
Lard  PnnrtO
FACTORY OPERATIONSa
M-TA,ntl, Lan,,r, PIan M-ti-n-s
IDS_Ik, ASiNITES   ----------.........  ..S.
iLATOl5LS ADRRSAC   NTT
Prcnnen   fMn,tnrRrapetI
Cnnl on,o                                                         .        ................... R.......in -
RrnnlnnC.    aiRs.........aI...Sna...l
DRASTtA SuGAR A       EST AR CHRIT   TTUT
Stint dEip-ne...........S---i----
S  innf T,. inan  ......               -------------------                                  -----  -     ---
Gnad n-daa a.t,-------------
RE.p ene  of LsnC ..    din-.'
IR-n---S---n---atn----n-
Rntanto  Raa.a& SDratnaa
Rnlalinh Dugan Rein C-adsnang C                .,  ......
Pl.ae  i ,.RId   L.bn, Sapply   .   - --   . .. . .. .        -   -       - -- ---- - -- - -- -
Kann R.-inne Oinaa& Deseop..nennP   ---------- --- ---.....                                                                              ----------------
1l-tgnn   oat Renn-nn  Rea-w (N                                               -------t----------   -------
J- nA. 1974                                                           17567a.d 17568.
-nI  pr. -I,   17B7



- 38 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Markets and Prices
A. The World Sugar Market
Market Structure
1.        Approximately three-fourths of the world's sugar production is
consumed in the producing countries and the remainder is traded internation-
ally. Until 1974, when the U.S. Sugar Act and the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
expired, 86% of the world sugar trade was concentrated in three separate and
protected markets: the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Centrally
Planned Countries. The "free market" was a highly volatile residual market;
currently it includes about 75% of the world trade. Since the expiration of
the International Sugar Agreement, the world market has not been regulated,
although a number of significant bilateral agreements have been negotiated.
The expiration of the trade agreements, coupled with the high growth rate
of sugar consumption in developing oil producing countries, has changed the
structure of the international sugar market. It has improved the long-term
export prospect of the developing countries as they can compete for a larger
share of the world market, but also increased supply and price instability.
A new International Sugar Agreement was successfully negotiated by repre-
sentatives of more than 70 countries in September-October 1977 and will go
into effect in January 1978 for a five year period. Past and projected
future world sugar balances are presented in Table 1.
Consumption
2.        Annual world sugar consumption averaged about 82 million tons in
1976 but it is expected to grow to about 94 million tons by 1980 and about
109 million tons by 1985. The growth rate of consumption from the mid-sixties
to 1974 was greater than the growth of production over the same period, pri-
marily because of the prevailing price structures in most of the consuming
and producing countries. The domestic price of sugar in most countries was
kept insulated from world market price increases during the period. The
sharp rise in the free market price of sugar in 1974 was not passed on to
consumers and, therefore, did not decrease consumption to a market balancing
level.
3.        The projections in Table 1 suggest that the growth in annual sugar
consumption will decline from 3.7% for the period 1959/63 - 1969/73 to about
2.7-2.8% for the period 1975-85. Reduced consumption growth is postulated
because (a) substitute sweetners are expected to make considerable inroads
in their competition with sugar, (b) the increasing role of per capita sugar



- 39 -
Page 2
consumption in developing producer countries is unlikely to compensate for
declining rates in the major consuming countries, and (c) world population
growth is projected to be slower than in the past. Competition from sugar
substitutes, essentially high fructose corn syrup (HFCS), is expected to be
the key factor in slowing annual sugar consumption growth to 2.7% in the
remaining 1970s. Although HFCS is expected to virtually exhaust the U.S.
liquid sugar market, the slower expansion from 1980 to 1985 implies a higher
growth rate of sugar consumption in the U.S.A. in the 1980s. HFCS expansion
in the EEC is not expected to be significant since raw material costs are
high and political considerations are unlikely to permit any large-scale
development. HFCS expansion in developing countries will continue to be
negligible since industrial use of sugar is limited and sophisticated distri-
bution, storage and handling systems would be required.
Production and Supply
4.        World production in 1976 was estimated at about 83 million tons.
Over the last decade, world sugar production has lagged behind world consump-
tion for a number of reasons, including low prices throughout the 1950s and
1960s, lack of private capital from developed countries, the organizational
restrictions set by the International Sugar Organization, production short-
falls in centrally planned economies, and the negative cross elasticities of
supply between grains and sugar which caused the supply response to the
increases in sugar prices to be slow. World sugar production increased from
39 million tons in 1955 to 78 million tons in 1973, or at an average rate of
about 4% per annum. The growth rate in the developing countries was about
4.6%.
5.        It is projected that world production will reach 94 million tons in
1980 and 109 million tons in 1985 (Table 1). A 1.4% annual growth in sugar
production is projected for developed countries through 1985. This reduced
rate, compared with 3.7% from 1959/63 to 1969/73, reflects realistic assump-
tions on expected demand growth, Government policies, and cost competition
between substitute sweetener and sugar. Centrally plarned economies are also
unlikely to reach the 2.8% annual growth rate achieved in the 1960s. Thus,
to cater for world import requirements, developing countries would have to
increase their production at an annual rate of 4.5%. Developing countries
which are sugar importers and/or oil exporters are unlikely to sustain their
previous annual sugar production growth of 10.3% and 5.8%, respectively.
The projected production growth (4.7% annually) for oil exporting countries
is unlikely to match projected consumption growth (5.9%) because of relatively
unsuitable sugar growing conditions and low Government priority for sugar
development. Overall production growth for net importing countries is expec-
ted to decline to 4.2% by 1985. The net-exporting developing countries will
have to provide the impetus for production growth by increasing their annual
expansion rate from 3.7% to 4.4%. Because of political and rising production
cost problems, this impetus is unlikely to come from traditional exporters,
but rather from Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Peru, India and Thailand.



- 40 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3
Prices
6.        During 1976 the world sugar price declined from an average of about
USi14/lb in the first half of the year to about USJ8/lb in the latter part of
the year. The decline reflected the fast increase in world production and
stocks which occurred in response to the high world sugar prices in 1974 and
1975. Present world sugar prices which are regarded by most of the producing
countries to be below the average cost of production are likely to remain
relatively low for a few years, though they are also likely to increase
steadily toward the 1980s. The longer the period of depressed sugar prices
will last, the more likely it is that a price boom will follow similar to the
one which occurred in 1974/75.
7.        The future price of sugar is projected to stabilize at USJ16.6/lb
in constant 1978 dollars; in current dollars the price is projected to be
about USU16.3/lb in 1980 and USU26.6/lb in 1985 (Table 2). The 1985 price
forecast of about USJ16.5/lb in constant 1978 US$ is based on a long-run
marginal cost of production estimate. This cost is based on existing costs
for new capacity and on the assumption that overall factory inputs would
increase at the average rate of international inflation. The main reasons
causing the world market price to rise in the 1980s in comparison to the
1960s are the significant increases in energy cost, fertilizer and raw
materials cost and capital costs.
8.        The time path for developing countries to expand production capacity
so that costs of production approach long-run marginal costs is highly depen-
dent on their ability to secure required capital. These countries will have
to invest quite heavily in the short-run in rehabilitation and expansion
projects to take advantage of the favorable market opportunities and to
reduce the risks of inducing a strong production response by other producer
groups. Given the relative cost advantage that developing countries have
in this type of capacity expansion, the realization of an adequate investment
program in the sector should be given high priority. Furthermore, even though
the capital requirements of adding new capacity become progressively larger,
such expansion is justified as the possibilities of rehabilitating and expand-
ing existing facilities become exhausted.
B. Domestic Markets and Prices
Distribution
9.        The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for estimating
sugar requirements, procuring sugar locally and through import, allocating
sugar supplies, and enforcing regulations governing the marketing of sugar.
The Chief Accountant of the Office of the President, who handles all of the
Ministry's accounts, carries out all financial transactions related to KNTC's



- 41 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4
trading activities and maintains the national sugar account.  The national
sugar account is a central fund into which all proceeds from the sale of
sugar to wholesalers by KNTC are deposited, and from which all sugar payments
for purchase, handling, and distribution from KNTC warehouses are made.
10.       The physical distribution of sugar to regional wholesale depots is
the responsibility of the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC); local
distribution is in the hands of the private trade. Established in 1965, KNTC
is one of a number of commercial institutions which are wholly-owned by the
Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) under the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry. The distribution system through KNTC has advantages
and disadvantages. The fact that KNTC is a speciLalized multi-commodity
trading agency with an established infrastructure is definitely an advantage.
On the negative side are such factors as the lack of "active selling," KNTC's
organizational distance from the sugar industry and occassionally poor and
inefficient execution by KNTC and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry of
their assigned functions. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is not
properly equipped to carry out its functions as the nerve center of the
system. Although the marketing system has functioned in the past, improve-
ments, including, for example, storage, transport, market research and
analysis and allocation procedures will be necessary as problems associated
with marketing, and particularly with storage wiLl worsen rapidly with
increased sugar production. These problems were identified in connection
with the South Nyanza Sugar Project and the Government had agreed to submit
a plan for improvement to the Bank by December 31, 1978. The financing and
implementation of the plan would be discussed with the Bank subsequently.
The Market for Sugar
11.       Sugar Consumption and Production.  Consumption records in Kenya show
a constant annual increase of about 10% for the period 1955-74. The sugar
retail price increases in the most recent years reduced consumption levels
from a high of 225,000 tons in 1975 to a low of 199,000 tons in 1976, however
1978 estimates are 237,000 tons. As a result, per capita consumption declined
from 17.6 kg in 1974 to 14.5 kg in 1976 before rising again to 15.1 kg in
1977. Total domestic consumption is estimated at 237,000 tons in 1978, with
an estimated domestic production of about 195,000 tons; 43,000 tons of imports
have already been arranged (Annex 14, Table 2, Volume II).
12.       With major expansion of Mumias, implementation of the Nzoia and
South Nyanza projects and the rehabilitation project, total annual sugar
production is estimated to increase to 478,000 tons in 1985 and to reach
about 540,000 tons from 1990 onwards (Annex 14, Table 4, Volume II). If per
capita consumption were to build up gradually at an annual rate of 4.5% from
the 1977 level of 15.1 kg and with the projected population growth of 3.5%
per annum, domestic consumption would reach a total of 402,000 tons in 1985
and 595,000 tons in 1990. With an annual per capita consumption growth rate
of 3.5%, domestic consumption would reach 372,000 tons in 1985 and 524,000
tons in 1990 (Annex 14, Table 5, Volume II). Projections used by the Ministry
of Agriculture presume similar growth rates.



- 42 -
ANNEX 14
Page 5
13.       With the rehabilitation project Kenya could possibly achieve self-
sufficiency in sugar production by 1981/82. Assuming an annual per capita
income growth of 2.7% and an income elasticity of demand of 0.6 (this figure
is supported by an analysis of consumption by the Ministry of Agriculture),
self-sufficiency consumption levels could be reached if the real price of
sugar to consumers decreases by about 5% per annum through the period of
1978-1980. Depending on the country's price elasticity of demand, which is
likely to be in the range of -1.0 and -1.5, and Government's price policy,
domestic supply and demand could balance around 1982. Thereafter, surpluses
would develop for a period of 6-10 years, peaking in 1986 within the range of
75,000 tons (Annex 14, Table 6, Volume II). Consequently under these assump-
tions, Kenya's consumption of sugar would fall short of domestic production
in most of the years of the next decade without expansion of sugar production
capacity. Government has also previously agreed to keep the Bank informed
of any significant future investments in the sugar industry.
Domestic Prices
14.       Price formation in the sugar industry is entirely administrative
rather than the result of interaction of free market forces. Upon recommen-
dation by the KSA, the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Commerce fix
all prices and margins, usually for a period of one year. Prices are gen-
erally uniform throughout the country, although provincial Government offi-
cials may make adjustments to allow for differences in transport costs within
a Province.
15.       Sugarcane Prices.  The actual price of sugarcane in 1977 delivered
at factory gate was KShs. 133/t. Previously, the price of sugarcane was
KShs. 92/t in 1975 and KShs. 105/t in 1976. As a proportion of the ex-mill
price of sugar, the price per ton of cane decreased from 5.7% in 1969 to 4.8%
in 1977 and as a proportion of the retail price of sugar, it decreased from
3.2% to 3.0% (Table 5). Prices received by farmers generally are considerably
less than the official factory gate price on account of transportation costs,
levies and other charges being deducted.
16.       Sugar Prices.  The price received by the factories was raised from
KShs. 2,300/t in 1976 to KShs. 2,800/t in May 1977, or by 21.7%. As a
proportion of the retail price it amounted to 59.3% in 1966 and 62.2% in 1977.
Retail prices amounted to KShs. 3,500/t in 1975 and KShs. 4,500/t in 1976,
1977 and 1978.
17.       Factory Margin, Taxes and Levies.  With the approximate ratio of
10 tons of cane per ton of sugar, the factory margin per ton of sugar was
KShs. 1,250 in 1976 and KShs. 1,470 in 1977. The factory margin as a pro-
portion of the ex-mill price of sugar thus represented 54% and 52% in the
respective years. An excise duty collected at the factory gate of KShs. 441/t
of sugar was in effect over the past decade, but was raised to KShs. 1,000/t
in June 1976. With this change, Government's sugar excise revenues are
expected to increase from about KShs. 120 million in 1976 to KShs. 175
million in 1977.



- 43 -
ANNEX 14
Page 6
18.       Since the retail price of sugar is uniform regardless of the source
and cost of supply, an equalization levy on domestic production had been
imposed to compensate for the higher cost of imported sugar. Theoretically,
the levy would be derived by pooling all revenues and expenditures in the
national sugar account and determining the amount per ton sold that would
balance the account. In practice such a balance has not been achieved. The
equalization levy amounted to KShs. 100/t for 1964-74 but was raised sharply
thereafter and reached KShs. 1,362/t in 1976. With the high levy in 1976,
revenues greatly outpaced expenditures and the accumulated funds in the sugar
account reached KShs. 285.4 million as of December 31, 1976. The levy was
reduced to KShs. 303/t in May 1977.
Price and Marketing Policy
19.       The relative deterioration of the price of sugarcane with respect
to the factory and retail price of sugar up to 1976 was a disincentive to
cane producers and had contributed to the shortages of cane at the factories.
The major impact of the relative decline in cane prices was the concomitantly
increasing financial risk to farmers associated with the droughts. Farmers
were apparently shifting to a low input-low output production regime when,
in their view, the expected net returns in normal rainfall years were not
sufficient to compensate for possible losses or prolonged indebtedness. The
significant price increase in 1977 alleviated the problem and is considered
adequate provided it is maintained in real terms.
20.       The factor margins were adequate for sugar producers although vary-
ing widely because of varying quality of cane, in particular for Ramisi.
However, with the expected expansion in outgrowers activity, the ex-mill price
needs to be reviewed periodically. Import parity at the official exchange
rate, in constant 1978 prices, is estimated at KShs. 3,675/t for 1980 and
KShs. 4,108/t for 1985 (Table 6). Trade margins were not adjusted in 1977
and will require increases in 1978 to compensate for cost increases due to
inflation.
21.       The retail price of sugar is high by historical Kenyan and by inter-
national standards. However, as long as there exist domestic shortages it is
appropriate to discourage consumption through the price mechanism. Maintain-
ing the current price in 1977 at 1976 levels represented a real price decline
and, consequently, estimated import requirements for 1977 are likely to exceed
those of the preceding year by 10-15,000 tons. Until self-sufficiency is
reached only a gradual real reduction in retail prices (i.e. sugar price
increases of less than the rate of inflation) is recommended to restrict the
growth of consumption to a level which is consistent with the growth in
production. After 1980 the potentially rapid increase in domestic supply of
sugar resulting from the projects currently being implemented plus the
rehabilitation project could only be absorbed within the country for a few
years and only if the consumer price of sugar were reduced and distribution
improved.
22.       By 1982 or 1983 no further reduction in price would be possible
without resorting to subsidies, and surpluses would most likely develop



- 44 -
ANNEX 14
Page 7
temporarily (para. 6). Export of these surpluses could be possible but
cannot be assumed as a matter of policy as Kenya would be competitive only
under favorable circumstances, and might require Government intervention. 1/
However, these surpluses would only be moderate and are not considered
critical. Furthermore, the establishment of adequate buffer stocks would
absorb additional production. From a policy planning point of view, self-
sufficiency does not imply that domestic demand and supply must balance
exactly year after year and alternating surpluses and deficits are to be
expected. Continuing review of production, consumption and investments in
the sugar industry is essential in such a situation and is indeed declared
and practiced Kenya Government policy.
1/   The present ex-factory price of mill-white sugar of KShs. 2,800/t, or
US4 15.9/lb at the official exchange rate compares with a projected
(1985) world market price of raw sugar of USJ 16.5/lb. Adjusting for
refining of raw sugar, the Kenyan price indicates an advantage over the
world market price but may have to be increased somewhat in real terms
to reflect increasing outgrowers' activities of the companies. If the
shadow foreign exchange rate were used in the analysis to account for
the overvaluation of Kenya's currency and resulting understatement of
the country's competitive position, the ex-factory price of mill-white
sugar would amount to US4 11.6/lb and compare favorably with the pro-
jected world market price.
May 30, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Production and Consumption Projections for 1978-1991
Price Elasticity of Demand: -1.0
Domestic                 Retail        Excise      Per Capita       Total       Surplus (+) 4/       Estimated   Build up   Possible Surplus
Population   Sugar Production 1/            Price 2/       Tax       Consumption   Consumption   Deficit (-)          Unofficial       of          for World
Year    (Million)       ('000 tons)               (ksh/t on)   (ksh/ton)      (kg) 3/      ('000 tons)   ('000 tons)            Exports      Stocks        Exports 5
1978      14.7               195                    4,500        1,303         16.14           237            -42                 10           --             __
1979      15.2               205                    4,275        1,078         17.30           263            -58                 10           --             __
1980      15.7               221                    4,050          853         18.60           292            -Tl                 10           --             __
1981      16.3               289                    3,825          628         20.06           327            -38                 10           --             __
1982      16.9               353                    3,600          403         20.39           345             + 8                10           --             --
1983      17.5               409                    3,600          403         20.79           364            +45                 10           30              5
1984      18.1               445                    3,600          403         21.06           381            +64                 10           20             34
1985      18.7               478                    3,600          403         21.40           4            +78                 10           20             48
1986      19.4               509                    3,600          403         21.75           422             +87                10           10             67
1987      20.0               527                    3,600          403         22.10           442             +85                10           --             75
1988      20.7               537                    3,600          403         22.46           465             +72                10           __             62        U
1989      21.5               539                    3,600          403         22.82           491             +48                             --48
1990      22.2               534                    3,600          403         23.19           522             +12                --                          12
1991      23.3               539                    3,600          403         23.57            549            -10                                            --
1/   From Table 4.
2/ Retail prices expressed in 1978 values terms, reflect reductions of about 5% per annum until retail
prices equal ex-mill price (ksh 2,800/ton) plus cost of sugar distribution (ksh 397/ton) and excise
duties of ksh 403/ton.
3/   Based on the assumption of a rise inr per capita real income of 247% p.a., an income elasticity of demand
of 0.6, and a price elasticity of demand of -1.0, no price effect is assumed after the retail price is
reduced to ksh 3,600/ton in real terms.
4/   These surpluses do not take stocks, specialized exports to Uganda and Tanzania  into account.  Furthermore,
the South Nyanza Project expansion of 27,000 tons of sugar could be phased according to requirements.
5/   Assumes build up 80,000 tons stocks to allow for seasonal variations, annual shutdown of factories, and
normal wholesale, retail and consumer stocks, informal exports to neighboring countries of 10,000 tons                                                           0 x
per annum.  If South Nyanza second stage were delayed by three years, surpluses would be reduced by                                                              a i
15,000, 20,000 tons and 27,000 tons in 1986, 1987 and 1988, respectively.                                                                                           4
May 12, 1978



- 46 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Analysis
A. The Sugar Companies
1.        The analysis indicates that the proposed investments would be finan-
cially justified in all four Project sugar zones. To improve the companies'
capital structure (Annex 3) additional equity would be required in Muhoroni
and Ramisi; an existing parent company loan would be capitalized at Ramisi and
company reserves would be capitalized at Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi. Long-
term development loans would be required at Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi.
Chemelil would be in a position to finance all company-owned (i.e., factory
and nucleus estate) and company-supervised (i.e., outgrowers) investments
with company self generated funds and would not need to incur any further
long-term debt. Miwani, Muhoroni and Ramisi would have to obtain seasonal
financing, in addition to the development loans, to finance temporary cash
flow shortfalls during the development period. Such finance would be avail-
able from local banks and, if required, from Government. Government would
insure that the companies would have access to sufficient funds at reasonable
terms. The financial statements and details on the financial rate of return
are presented in Tables 1-4 for Miwani, 5-8 for Chemelil, 9-12 for Muhoroni
and 13-16 for Ramisi. The companies financial results with Project are
summarized below:



ANNEX 15
- 47  -                             Page 2
Project Year 11
Miwani    Chemelil   Muhoroni    Ramisi
Income Statement
Sales (KSh. Million)               162         168         178         105
Net Income (KSh Million)            21          19          26          15
Balance Sheet
Net Assets 1/ (KSh Million)        282         248         256         180
Long-term Debt (KSh Million)        62          29          61         132
Net Worth (KSh Million)            220         219         195          48
Ratio Analysis
Debt to Worth 2/ (+)              22/78       12/88       24/76       73/27
Return on Net Assets 3/ (%)          7           7          10           8
Return on Equity 4/ (%)             10           9          13          31
Financial Rates of Return
from Project Investments
Basic (%)                           34          23          24          16
Sales minus 5% (%)                  30          18          21          13
Sales minus 10% (%)                 26          13          17          10
Capital Costs plus 10% (%)          31          20          22          14
1/   Total Assets minus current liabilities.
2/   Long-term Debt + Net Worth
3/   Net Income * Net Assets
4/   Net Income + Net Worth.
B. The National Budget
2.        The loans from the World Bank and the African Development Bank would
be channeled through Government, and would amount to KShs. 651.3 million
(US$78.0 million) in current prices over the first six-year period of the
Project. In addition, Government would receive KShs. 353.7 million (US$44.2
million) in Project-related revenues and KShs. 162.7 million (US$20.3 million)
in payment of interest and loan repayment from the companies. Total cash
inflow during the six-year period would be KShs. 1,167.7 million (US$145.9
million).



- 48 -
ANNEX 15
Page 3
3.        Against these cash inflows, Government would, during the initial
six-year period, provide equity to Muhoroni in the amount of KShs. 27.6 mil-
lion (US$3.5 million) and to Ramisi, KShs. 21.2 million (US$2.7 million), and
provide loans to Miwani, KShs. 123.3 million (US$15.4 million), to Muhoroni,
KShs. 126.3 million (US$15.8 million) and to Ramisi, KShs. 216.5 million
(US$27.1 million). Total cash outflow over the six-year period would be
KShs. 859.2 million (US$107.4 million), producing a cumulative net surplus
on the Government budget of KShs. 308.5 million (US$38.6 million) by the end
of Year 6. The Government cash flow for the Project is shown in Table 28.
C. Foreign Exchange Implications
4.        Over the first six years of the Project, the inflow of foreign ex-
change as external loans is estimated to amount to KShs. 651.3 million (US$78
million) in current prices; molasses exports would earn another KShs. 27.1
million (US$3.4 million). The foreign exchange content of the Project
investments and operations would be KShs. 678.0 million (US$84.8 million)
and debt service on external loans, KShs. 221.2 million (US$27.7 million).
Actual outflows of foreign exchange would be KShs. 899.2 million (US$112.4
million) which exceeds actual inflows by KShs. 220.8 million (US$27.6 mil-
lion). However, the value of foreign exchange savings through import sub-
stitution of sugar produced under the Project would be KShs. 838.7 million
(US$104.8 million), resulting in a positive effect on the country's foreign
exchange balance of KShs. 617.9 million (US$77.2 million) for the six-year
period as a whole (Table 29).
D. Farmer Benefits
5.        At the expected price of cane of KShs. 133/t, the total smallholder
outgrowers' cane production of 857,300 t at full development would have a
factory gate value of KShs. 114 million; without the Project, smallholders
would produce about 368,000 t valued at KShs. 48.9 million. With an average
net cash cost of KShs. 74/t, the average annual cost of production would be
KShs. 63.4 million, and net returns to smallholders' labor, capital and
management would amount to KShs. 50.6 million, or about KShs. 59/t of cane,
or KShs. 2,400/ha per year on average. Net returns per year would average
about KShs. 2,020/ha in Miwani, KShs. 2,280/ha in Chemelil, KShs. 2,770/ha
in Muhoroni and KShs. 1,790/ha in Ramisi. Ahero farmers would derive
KShs. 2,850/ha annually assuming full cost recovery over a 15-year period.
Indicative outgrower budgets for Ramisi, Ahero and Miwani smallholders are
shown in Tables 17, 19, and 21, respectively. Farmers' cash flows would vary
according to the growing area and whether cane is irrigated or not. A typical
characteristic of cane production in all zones, however, is a very uneven cash
flow throughout the growing cycle which aggravates cane farmers' financial
risks compared with growers of annual crops. Smallholders' cash flows for
Ramisi, Ahero and Miwani are shown in Tables 18, 20, and 22, respectively.



- 49 _
ANNEX 15
Page 4
6.        The effect of the Project on farm family incomes would vary depend-
ing on the size of the holding and on whether a farmer is a new cane grower or
an establishea grower whose cane would be rehabilitated. At Miwani, for
example, the average net annual incremental income would be KShs. 3,560 per
farm without previous cane, and KShs. 1,000 for an established grower, as-
suming a cane area of 2 ha per farm. These represent increases of about 190%
and 25%, respectively. The average annual per capita income with the Project
would be KShs. 900 (US$108) for Miwani farmers, assuming an average farm
family of six persons. By comparison, average annual GDP per capita was
KShs. 1,810 (US$218) in 1976. Rainfed cane production in the Miwani zone
is the least financially rewarding in the Sugar Belt. Consequently, Project
benefits derived by other farmers in the Sugar Belt would exceed those
described above. At Ramisi, on the other hand, estimated farmer benefits
would be some 12% below those estimated for Miwani. However, the relative
increase in net benefits above projected income levels without the Project
at Ramisi would exceed comparable increases in the Sugar Belt. Despite the
much higher wage costs of large farmers they generally would enjoy a more
favorable structure of production costs than smallholders and thus can be
assumed to have sufficient production incentives whenever such incentives
are satisfactory for smallholders, provided no subsidies are granted small-
holders. Overall, projected farmer benefits compare favorably with benefits
derived from other improvement efforts affecting major competitive crops,
especially maize, and are considered adequate for achieving Project objectives
with respect to sugar production.
E. Irrigation Cost Recovery
7.        Farmers at Ahero and Kibos would be assessed water charges by NIB
which would be adequate to fully recover over a reasonable period of time
all capital and recurrent costs related to the Project's irrigation component.
Using an interest rate of 11% and a recovery period of 20 years, the required
charges at Ahero would amount to KShs. 1,345 per hectare actually planted to
cane, or KShs. 1,901 per hectare of cane harvested or KShs. 23.20 per ton of
cane harvested, expressed in constant (January) 1978 value terms; for a
recovery period of 15 years the respective charges would be KShs. 1,481,
KShs. 2,145 and KShs. 26.10, for example (Table 23). Rates would be estab-
lished similarly for the participants at Kibos.
8.        Charges payable by the Chemelil, Muhoroni and Ramisi sugar companies
would be much less than at Ahero since irrigation in those areas would be
established with loans to be serviced by the respective owners, and operations
would be largely the responsibility of the owners. NIB would merely supervise
the operation of these schemes and be responsible for facilities outside the
private domain; an appropriate charge to fully recover NIB's costs related to
these schemes would be assessed.



- 50 -
ANNEX 15
Page 5
F. Roads and Drainage Maintenance Fund (RDMF)
9.        The Kenya Sugar Authority would collect a levy on all sugar produced
in Kenya and pool it in the RDMF from which the sugar companies would be
reimbursed for their expenditures related to the maintenance of public roads
and drainage infrastructure (Annex 13). The size of the levy would be deter-
mined on the basis of actual costs plus KSA's cost of administration. The
estimated actual cost in the Sugar Belt, for example, including maintenance of
existing roads would be KShs. 14.5 million per year at full development, or
KShs. 83 per ton of sugar of which KShs. 72 would be for roads and KShs. 11
for drainage. The cost per ton of sugar produced would be higher in the
initial years when total sugar production would be lower (Table 24). The
RDMF levy would be deducted from the sugar excise tax and/or the sugar equali-
zation levy, or such other sources as the Treasury will deem appropriate.
November 1, 1978



-  51  -                                         ANNX  15
Table 25
KENYA
SUGAR REOATILITATION PROJECT
FinanIcing Plan
(EBbs. Million)
Cost Eligible
Total      for World Bank       World
Table       Cost        Financing           Bank       ADB      lovernosent      KSA Levy      Miwani       Chemelil      Muhoroni       tomisi
Irrigation - Capital
Abero                                  3          5.5            5.5              5.0       --            0.5            --            --           --             --           --
Kibos                                  3         11.9           11.9             10.7       --            1.,                                       -       
Chemelil                               3         11.2           --               --                                                                 11.2           --           --
Muhoroni                               3         1n.8           1l.8             io.6       --            --             --           --            --              1.2         __
Ramisi                                 3         17.9           17.9             16.1       --            --             --            --           --             --            1.8
Irrigation - Recurrent                    3          7.1            __              __         __            1.3             __           __            1.4            1.2           3.2
Drainage
Capital                                4         46.o           46              28.6        -     ~     17.4             --            __          __              __           __
Recurrent                              4         36.1           24               21.5       --          13.2             i.4           --           __             __           _
Agriculture - Capital
'iwoni                                5         29.4            29.4            26.5        --           --              __            2.9         --             __           __
Chemelil                              6         25.1            --               __         __           __              __                         25.1          --            --
Muhoroni                              7          49.1           49.1             44.2       _-           --              --           --            --             4.9          --
Ramisi                                 8         28.9           28.9             --         26.0         --              --           --            --            --             2.9
Agriculture - Ron-Variable
Miwani                                 9         17.8            8.7 j            7.8       --           --              --           10.0          --             __           __
Chenelil                             10           8.5           __               __         __           __              __           __             8.5          __            __
Muhoroni                             11         39.5            18.8  /          16.9       --           --              --            --           --            22.6          --
Ramisi                               12         28.5            14.4 E/          11.8       --           --                                                                     16.7
Agriculture - Variable
Miwani                              13, 14      53.6            27.3 2           23.5       --           --.             __           30.1          --             __           __
CheMelil                            15, 16      44.6            --               --         --           --              --           --            44.6          --            -_
Muhoroni                            17, 18      68.5            29.9 3/          21.7       _-            _              __            __           __            46            --
Resisi                              19, 20      71.7            56.2              o 50.6    --           -.6             --           -_            __            __            21.1
Sugar Factory - Capital
Mirahi                                21        39.8            39.8             35.8       --            --             --            4.0          --            -_            __
Muhbroni                              22        22.3            22.3             20.1       --           --              --           --            --             2.2          --
Ramioi                                23       109.2           109.2             98.3       --                                                                                  I). -_  -_  __  _  10.9
Sugar Factory - Recurrent
MiwRni                                24        11.9            --               --         --           -               --           11.9          --            -_            __
Chenelil                              25         7.6            --               __         __            _              __           __             7.6          __            __
Muhuroni                              26        17.7            __               __         __           _               __           __            _             17.7          -_
Ramiti                                27         15.2           --               --         __           7.2  ]          -_           __            __            --             8.0
eueral aMnageme-t enS
Adoinistration - Capital
ufiwmni                               28          0.5            0.5              0.5       _-            _-             -_            __           __             __           __
Muhoroni                              28          0.5            0.5              0.5       -_           _ _             __           __            __            _  
Ilamisi                               28          0.5            0.5              0.5       _-           _-              -_           __            __            __            __
General Manageaent and
Administration - Recurrent
Miwani                                28          8.2            5.8 6            5.2       --                           __             3.0         -_            __            __
Chemelil                              28         7.5            --               --         --            --             --           --             7.5           --           --
Muh-ooni                              28        15.4             5.86/            5.2       --           _-              -_           __            __            10.2          --
Remioi                                28         12.3            5.86 V           5.2       --           --              --           -_            -_             __            7.1
Roads
Obpital                               29        74.2            74.2             23.3       -_          46.9             __           -1.6           0.8           1.6          __
Recurrent                              30         7.5           __               __         __             _             6.5            0.4          0.2            0.4         --
Housing
uiwani                                 31        28.0           26.7 7/          24.0       --           -.-             -_             4.0         -_             _            -_
Chemelil                              31         12.2           --               --         --           --              --           --            12.2          --            __
uh,oroni                               31        40.3           38.5 7/          34.7       --            --             --            --           -_              S.6         -_
RFmisi                                 31       24.1            23.1 7           .--        22           ..-                                 _ __ __ __                          2.1
Kibos Research
Capital                               32          3.3            3.3              3.0       -_             0.3           --           --            __             __           __
Recurrent                             32          6.9            5.8  ]            .4       -.5                          --            __           __
EgA - Traiinig/Studies                    33         5.5             5.5             5.0        --            0.5            --           --           --             --           --
Physical  Lootgageiea  0/                           20.6            20.6             12.8       --            7.8            --           ---                         --
TOTAL                     1,103.9           767.7            576.09'   48.0            96.8           7.9           67.9       ,u19.1         114.4          73.8
U0$                         138.0            96.0             72.0       6,0          12.1            1.0            8.5         14.9          14.3           9.2
Includra increnental aelarien of the Agricultural Department, and agricultural staff training costs.
2   Includes fertili-ero (KEhb. 11.2 million) and land preparation and planting operations (KShs. 12.8 million)
over fice yesrs  and field mointecance (hilling and weeding) over three yearn (KShE . 3.3 million).
3/  Includeo fertilizero (KSha. 13.2 million) and land preparation and plaotiig operations (KShE . 16.7 million).
yl Includes fertilisers (KShs. 16.2 million), land preparation and planting operations (KShs. 14.6 million)
and field maintenance (hilling and weeding) (KSha. 25.4 nillion) over five years.
5/  Rev equity participation in Ramisi by Government.  KShs. 14.0 million in Covernment equity
would be financed with proceeds of the World Bank loan.
6/ Includes incremental salaries of the Finance and Controller Department and the Industrial ReLations Department.
7J Excluden maintenance costs.
A]  Includes salaries, staff allosances, recruitment/resettleaent expenses, and staff training cots.
2/  Includes Government equity financing of RSbs. 27.6 million for Muhoroni and KShE.  14.0 million for Ramisi, and
loan financing of KMSh. 466.1 million to the sugar companies and KShs. 93.5 oUiion to Government.
10/ Additional 25% physical contingencies on irsigatisa sad dralnage b-.assea final enginesring d-sigos not reedy yet.
Ontober 17, 1978



S(A EHB  ENYA
SOAiRHRLTTAT'N PROJECT
t'oernment Cash Flow  I
"Ksh5 1000)
Year I       Year 2        Year 3        Year 4        Yer5           ea  6       Year 7       Year 8        Year 9        Year 1         er1
CASH4 tIFLOW
Loa. Disbursement
World Bank                                          38,500      142,500       157,200       152,000        93,600        17.400         -           --                           -
African Development Bank (ADB)                       2,800         8,900       91~,900       10.400        11 3000        4,800=        -            --                          --
Subtotal                            41,300       151,400       169,100        62,400      104,90         22,200         -             -       
Revenues
-Sugar Excise and Roads and Drainage
Maintenance Fund  2'                          ---           1 398        7 705        51 333        87 975       lag 197      144 986      145 972       150 340       152 595       157 385
-c,mpany Tncome Tax  3/                               480         (800)       (2 815)        1 890         5 205       15 729        21 974       32 102        33 368       34 161        36 681
-Other Duties and Taxes  4J                        4 614        10 695        14 645        17 480        14 965       14 067        13 890       14 100        14 100        14 100       14 100
Interest Payments 'Companies)                ~           360         5 560        17 560       31 960        43 290        47.300        47 190      47 190        46 240        45 300        45 300
Repayment of Loans (C.mpan'Cs)   /---- -                                                                                   16, 640       16 640      16 640        34 680        34 680        34 690
Total Cash Inflow                   46 754       168 253       206 195       265 063       256 335      225 133       244 680      256.004       279 728       280 936      2814
CASH OUTFLOW
P-ict  los6/                                           --           3 645        3854          4348          5928          2054          2750        21750         2750          2750          2 750
I,rtgat on -
-Roads                                             4 576        29 953        12 862         9874         10 877        1928          3503         3 503         3503          3503          3 503
-Roads and Drainage Maintenance                      --          --            1 539         2 630         31757        5 115         5 135        5 115         5 115         5 155         5 115
-Drainage 6/                                       4 532         6,638        10 707         7 745         8 385        7 944         2.297        2 297         2 297         2 297         2 297
-Research Qtibms)                                      58        1 906         4 902         2 110         1 185         1 185        1 185        1 185         1 185         1 185         1 195
K SA                                               2 606         2 224           768           185           201           220           220         220           220           220           220
Subtotal                            31 772        44 366        34.632        26 892        30,333        18 446       15 070       15 070        15 070        15 070        15 070
Loans and Equity to Companies
-miwani  Sugar M;i1s Limited                       6 800        28 600        32 800        36 600        17 400         1 100          --          --      -      -            -             --
-East African Sugar Industries Limi ted
- Muhoroni                                     17 300       39 500        35 300        39.900        18,400         3 500          -             --                          --
-Associated Sugar Company Limited-Ramiss            7 900       40 500        75 515        61,300        42 400        10 100         -             --                          --
Subtoral                             52 000      108 600       143.615       137,800        78 200        14 700          -            ---
Interest Payment
World Bank                                           1 540         8 780        20 770       33 120        42 960        45 190        43 590       40 380        37 180       33 970        30 770
African Development Rank                              I110           580         1 410        2 300         3 170         3 680         3 740        3 740         3 740        3 740         3 740
Subtotal                              1.650        9.360        22 180        35 420        46 330        49 470       47 330       44 120        40.920        37 710        34 510
Loan Commitment Charges
liorld Bank                                          4  360        3,680         2  560        1400           480           370           --                        --            --
African Development Sank                               240          220           160            110            50           10-                       -----
subtotal                              4600         3  900        2  720        1510            530           180          -             -- 
WoanRdepaymnks                                          -----                                                  --.        40 080        40  080      40 080        40  080      40.080        40 080
Afrlca Beeope'Bank                                     -            -              ---                                    3 340         3.340        3 340         3,340        3 340         3 340
Subta Dve ote, alnk                                                                     --            --         43.420        43 420       43 420        43 420        43 420        43 420
Total Cash Outflow                  50 022       166.226       203,147       201 622       135 193        82 096      105,820      102 610        90 410        96 200        93 000
CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                                  (3 268)        2 027         3 048        63 441       101 142      142 137       138 860      153 394       179 318       184 636       195 146
CUp4UULAT-VE SURPLuJS 'DEFICIT)                          '3 268)       1 241         1 807        65 248       166 390      309 527       447 387      600 781       790 09"       064 735   1.159 881
In current prices for Years 1-6, thereafter in Year 6 (1983) constant prices.
~/Excise tax in constant 1977 prices, assumed at KShs. 1,000/t for Years 1-5, adjusted to current terms by using a factor
of 7.5% (EShs. 1,075) in Year 2, 15% (KShs. 1,150) in Year 3, 23.1%6 (KShs. 1,231) in Year 4i, 31.7% (KIShs. 131.7) in Year 5
and 40.9% (Eshr. 1,4o/7) in Year 6.
3/values in constant 1977 prices adjusted by 7.5% in Year 2, 15% in Year 3, 23.1% in Year 4, 31.7% in Year 5 and 40.9% in
Year 6; thereafter in Year 6 constant prices.                                                                                                                                                                  '
,/Includes Import duties on materials, machinery, vehicles and equipments; excise taxes on capital and current inputs.
5/ Based on Tables 3, 11 anLd 15 .
6/ Includes physical contingency of 15%.
November 7, 1978



- 53 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1
KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        Project incremental costs and benefits are summarized in Table 1.
These are expressed in constant value terms (base = 1978 prices) and are
based on the cane production scheme as outlined in Annex 6 and the Project
cost estimates in Annex 11.
2.        In the calculation of economic Project costs and benefits foreign
exchange has been shadow-priced at a rate of US$1.00 = KShs. 11.0 to reflect
the economic cost of foreign exchange to Kenya. Project costs include the
full cost of irrigation, drainage, agricultural development, the sugar
factories, general management and administration, and housing anid other
building facilities; 75% of the cost of construction and maintenance of roads
and tracks; 40% of the cost of the National Sugar Research Institute; and 35%
of the cost of the Kenya Sugar Authority. Twenty-five percent of the cost of
roads and tracks are excluded because it is anticipated that there would be
offsetting increases in benefits other than those related to sugarcane which
are not measurable. Sixty percent of the cost of the National Sugar Research
Institute are excluded because the Institute's research would benefit all
sugar production in Kenya of which the Project sugar companies' future share
would be only 40% and, thus, only 40% of resulting total benefits are assumed
to be accounted for in the analysis. Of KSA's total Project expenditures 65%
have been assumed to benefit either sugar companies other than the Project's
or economic sectors other than the sugar sector and have therefore been
excluded. All costs are net of taxes and duties, which are estimated at KShs.
60 million (US$7 million) at constant prices.
3.        It has been assumed that production of sugar resulting from the
Project would mostly substitute for imports, and sugar has been valued on
the basis of import parity. The import parity price, which is consistent
with the World Bank's commodity price forecast, adjusted for ocean freight
and port handling charges, in KShs. 4,796/t for the period 1978-84 and
KShs. 5,363/t for 1985 and onwards (KShs. 3,675/t and KShs. 4,108/t, re-
spectively, with foreign exchange not shadow-priced); details are shown in
Annex 14, Table 8. Molasses has been priced on the basis of export parity
(KShs. 350/t).
4.        The Project would provide salaried incremental employment for
approximately 1,080 persons. All salaries and wages have been costed at
market wage rates since the additional employment would involve either
relatively scarce skilled factory and managerial personnel or field laborers
who are difficult to recruit on account of a general dislike for work in the



- 54 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2
cane fields. The Project also would provide additional on-farm employment
totaling about I million mandays per year for about 10,800 smallholder
families. Farm family labor has been shadow-priced at 55% of the market wage
rate as a portion of such labor (i.e. women, adolescents) is presently under-
employed and relatively immobile.
5.        Since the planting of sugarcane on 13,310 ha of land in expansion
areas would displace some crops presently grown there, the net value of
these crops has been included as an economic cost.  Not all of the designated
future cane area is currently fully utilized, however, and the area lost
for the production of other crops has been assumed at only 60% of the total.
Losses have also been attributed to the downstream flooding of 300 ha (para.
12). The main crop grown in the areas affected are maize, millets, cassava,
other minor subsistence crops and forage for livestock.  The annual net
economic value of production foregone has been estimated at KShs. 8.8 million
(US$800,000) at full development.
6.        The data in Table 1 indicate that, over a 25-year period, the
Project would produce an internal economic rate of return of 33%. Sensitivity
analysis was undertaken to examine the effect of changes in the output and
cost assumptions. The results for the four sugar zones and the Project as a
whole, as shown in Tables 1-5, are the following:
Internal Rate of Return (
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign           Miwani  Chemelil  Muhoroni  Ramisi  Project
Exchange
Basic (Import Substitution)          39        37         35       24        33
Benefits Minus 10%                   34        33         31       21        29
Benefits Minus 20%                   29        29         26        17       24
Cost Plus 10%                        35        33         31       21        29
Cost Plus 10%, Benefits
Minus 10%                          30        29         27        18       25
Export                               29        29         26       20        24
Without Shadow-Pricing of
Foreign Exchange
Basic                                35        32         32       21        29
7.        The economic rate of return on total investments in the 15,030 ha
of land which would receive drainage in the Sugar Belt, based on the same
general assumptions as for the project as a whole and average yield increases
of 14.9/ha, is estimated at 38%; with 10% higher costs and 10% lower returns
than expected the rate would be 14% (Table 6). Of the total yield response
of 14.9 t/ha it is estimated that 8.0 t/ha would be due purely to drainage,
with the remainder being attributed to improved husbandry and higher inputs.



- 55 -
ANNEX 16
Page ?
8.        >-e economic rate of return on investments in irrigation for 2,000
ha of cane land located in the Sugar Belt, excluding Ahero, is estimated at
46% assuming an average yield increase of 39 t/ha/year. With 10% higher costs
and 10% lower returns than expected the rate would be 28% (Table 7).
9.        A major risk facing the Project would be that smallholder outgrowers'
relations with the sugar companies could deteriorate to a point where small-
holder production of cane is adversely affected, as has been the case in the
past. Since about 43% of the total Project cane area would be cultivated by
smallholders, shortfalls in expected yields or farmer participation would
prevent the factory capacities from being fully utilized. This risk has been
taken into account in estimating projected yields and land availability
and is already partially reflected in the Project's economic rate of return.
To minimize this risk an organizational structure is proposed which is -
oriented towards generating satisfactory incomes to farmers and assuring
active participation of the farmers' families in cane production; farmers'
interest vis-a-vis the companies would be safeguarded by the cooperative
movement and a contractual legal framework also involving the Kenya Sugar
Authority (Annex 13). Achievement of the income objective would be
facilitated by an appropriate Government cane price policy.
10.       There is also the possibility that the interaction between soils and
climate and the proposed technical input packages would not produce the levels
or duration of the projected cane yields as the data base for evaluation in
this area is rather weak. The sensitivity analysis indicates, however, that a
risk of this nature is not unreasonable (para. 6). Low to fair yields have
been sustained in some parts of the Project area for over 50 years with poor
husbandry and there is no indication that improved yields could not be main-
tained for many years with adequate management and financing. The estimation
of the actual yield potential must be viewed with less confidence, however.
The Project would greatly strengthen agricultural research activities in an
effort to improve the technical package of inputs and husbandry available to
cane producers. Shortfalls in yields could be partially compensated for by
expanding the growing area in some zones. Moreover, the financial break-
even analysis (Annex 15) indicates that the factories' operations would remain
viable even with somewhat lower throughput volumes than estimated.
11.       Another potential risk would be shortages of cane harvest labor,
particularly at Ramisi. Serious shortages could disrupt harvest operations
and force the companies into purchasing expensive mechanized harvesting
equipment. The main features contributing to this risk are organizational,
social and economic in nature rather than demographic. Overall, there is
serious unemployment of unskilled laborers in Kenya. The risk would be
alleviated under the Project through mechanization of cane loading (not
harvesting) operations and improvement in housing for laborers. Furthermore,
Government would review the problem and take steps for sustaining an adequate
supply of such labor (Annex 7).



- 56 -
ANNEX 16
Page 4
12.       Minor risks include losses attributable to increased downstream
flooding resulting from the Project's drainage component. Such flooding
would primarily increase the inconvenience to inhabitants of already flood-
prone areas and could possibly lead to temporary inundation of additional
areas. A loss factor attributable to flooding has been accounted for in
the evaluation (para. 5). Provisions have been made under the Project for
future remedy (Annex 5).
13.       The disposal of temporary surpluses of sugar could also pose a small
risk. However, the temporary nature of these surpluses and the likelihood
that some sugar could be exported with only slight financial losses (but
fairly certainly without economic losses in view of Kenya's overvalued
currency) would render this risk inconsequential.
July 7, 1978



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Summary of Pro ject Costs and Benefits 11
(KShs. Million)
Incremental Costs                                                                        Incremet il
Housing,   Research                                                  Benefit g
Management and                                Roads      Social    and KSA        Farm Family   Production
Year        Agriculture   Factory   Administration   Irrigation   Drainage             2/    Amenities         3/          Labor 4/    Foregone 5/    Total
1             43             8             __                1             5          3          5            1             4              4              74            --
2             82            28              8               16            14         21         27            2             4              6             208             7
3             61            42              6               18            17         12         26            2             4              7             195            34
4             97            54              9               10            14          8         26            1             5              8             232          205
5            146            45             10               10            14          8          2            1             5              8             249           332
6            123            35            1l1                4            17          7          2           __             6              8             213           384
7            150            34             11                4            11         14          2           __             6              9             241           508
8            111            34             11                4            114         4          2           __             6              9             195           592
9            123            34             11                4            11          4          2            1             6              9             205           594
10            109            34             11                4            11          4          2           __              6             9             190           595
11            121            34             11                4            16          7          2            _             .6             9             210           595
12            134            34             11                4            11         10          2           __             6              9             221           595
13-,25         124            34             11                4            13          7          2            1              6             9             211           595
Economic Rate of Return
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange 7]
Basic (Import Substitution)                     33
Benefits Minus 10%                             29
Benefits Minus 20%                              24
Costs Plus 10%                                  29                                                                                                 _,
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%              25
Export                                          24
Without Shadow*Pricing of Foreign Exchange
Basic                                           29
i/ Based on cost data presented in Ak*IEX 11.
7]  Includes 75% of the adjusted costs for construction and maintenance of Project roads and tracks.
Includes 40% of estimated Project costs of research and 35% of the Kenya Sugar Authority.
Priced at 55% of market wage rates.
:/  Based on a net value of production foregone of KShs. 8.8 million at full development.                                                                                 1 3
Based on sugar import parity price of KShs. 4,79c/t for 1978-84 and KShs, 5,363/t for 1985 and onwards                                                               F 
and export parity price of KShs. 350 fOr molasses.
7/  The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00 = US$ 1.00.
December 9, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Summary of Project Costs and Benefits j
Miwani
(KSh. Million)
Incremental Costs                                                       Incremental
Housing,                 Benefits |
Management and                                                   Social       Total
Year       Agriculture       Factory      Administration       Irrigation       Drainage      Roads      Amenities         2
1                8             4               --                --               3            1            1             19            --
2               19            12                2                  3              8            4             8            59             7
3               12             4                1                  3             10            4            7             44            14
4               25            10                1                  3              8            2            7             59            63
5               25             9                1                  3              8            2             1            52            98
6               31             8                1                  1             10            2             1            57           .113
7               37             9                1                  1              8            3           --             63           144
8               28             9                1                  1             10            1           --             54           163
9               32             9                1                  1              8            1           --             56           163
10               28             9                1                  1              8            1           --             52           163
11               31             9                1                  1             10            2           --             58           163
12               37             9                1                  1              8            3           __             63           163
13-25             32              9               1                  1              9            1            --            57           163
Economic Rate of Return                             t
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange L/
Basic (Import Substitution)                    39
Benefits Minus 10%                             34
Benefits Minus 20%                             29
Costs P'lus 10%                                35
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%             30
Export                                         29
Without Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange
Basic                                          35
j   Based on cost data presented in ANNEX 11.                                                                                                   M
T Includes the costs of research, the Kenya Sugar Authority, net value of production foregone and                                            D X
farm familv labor (i.e. KShs. 4 million per year at full development).
3    Based on sugar import parity price of KShs. 4,796/t for 1978-84 and KShs. 5,363/t for 1985 and onwards
and export parity price of KShs. 350 for molasses.
The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00 =I US$ 1.00.
December 9, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILTTATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Summary of Project Cost and Benefits l/
Chemelil
(KShs. Million)
Incremental Costs                                                      Incremer;al
Housing,                   BenefitE ,
Management and                                                Social        Total
Year         Agriculture      Factory   Administration       Irrigation      Drainage     Roads      Amenities          |
1                6             --             --                --              1           1           1             10            -_
2                15            __              1                 3              4           4            3            32            __
3                4             __              1                 3              5           2           3             20            __
4               11             1               2                 3              4           1            3            27            29
5                 9            4               2                 3              4           1           -             25            48
6                11            4               2                 1              5           2           _             27            56
7               20             4               2                 1              2           3           --            34            76
8                 8            4               2                 1              3           1           __            21            83
9                12            4               2                 1              2           1           --            24            84
10               10            44               2                 1              2           1          --             22            85
11               11             4               2                 1              5           2          __             27            85
12               12             4               2                 1              3           2                         26            85
13-25             12             4               2                 1              3           2                         26            85
Economic Rate of Return                          f
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange g 
Basic (Import Substitution)                 37
Benefits Minus 10%                          33
Benefits Minus 20%                          29
Costs Plus 10%0                             33
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%          29
Export                                      29
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange
Basic                                       32
1   Based on cost data presented in ANNEX 11.                                                                                              M
/  Includes the costs of research, the Kenya Sugar Authority, net value of production foregone and                                         >
farm family labor (i.e. KShs. 2 million per year at full development).
3   Based on sugar import parity price of KShs. 4,769/t for 1978-84 and KShs. 5,363/t for 1985 and onwards
and export parity price of KShs. 350 for molasses.
4/ The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00 = US$ 1.00.
December 9, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Summary of Project Costs and Benefits  /
Muhoroni
(KShs. Million)
Incremental Costs                                                    Incremental
Management                                                Housing,                 Benefits %
and                                                    Social       Total
Year     Agriculture      Factory     Administration      Irrigation      Drainage      Roads     Anenities        2/
1           21              -                                              1            1           2            29           --
2           28              4               3                3             2            7          10            61           --
3           19              7              2                 3             2            4          10            51           -
4           34             11              4                 3             2           3           10            72          69
5           35             11              5                 3             2            3           1            65          113
6           45             11               6                1             2            2           1            74          131
7           54             11               6                 1            1            4 ,                      83          178
8           38             11              6                 1             1            1          --            64          199
9           46             11              6                 1             1            1          --            72          199
10           38             11              6                 1             1            1          --            64          199
11           43             11               6                1             1            2          -_            70          199
12           49             11               6                1             1            4          --            78          199
13-25         44             11               6                 1            1            2          --            71          199             o
Economic Rate of Return
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange /
Basic (Import Substition)                    35
Benefits Minus 10%                           31
Benefits Minus 20%                           26
Costs Plus 10%                               31
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%           27
Export                                       26
Without Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange
Basic                                        32
Based on cost data presented inANNEX 11.
/  Includes the costs of research, the Kenya Sugar Authority, net value of production foregone and
farm family labor (i.e. KShs. 6 million per year at full development).                                                          X
Based on sugar import parity price of KShs. 4,796/t for 1978-84 and KShs. 5,363/t for 1985 and
onwards, and export parity price of KShs. 350 for molasses.                                                                     O
The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00 = US$ 1.00
December 9, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABIIITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Summary of Project Costs and Benefits /
Ramisi
(KShs. Million)
Incremental Costs                                           Incremental
Management                                    Housing,               Benefits 3/
and                                         Social        Total
Year    Agriculture       Factory      Administration       Irrigation     Roads       Amenities         2
1          8               4               --                 1           --             1             16        --
2         20              12                2                 7            6             6             55        --
3         26              31                2                 9            2             6             78        20
4         27              32                2                 1            2             6             73        44
5         77              21                2                 1            2            __            106        73
6         36              12                2                 1             1           --             55        84
7         39              10                2                 1             4           __             59       110
8         37              10                2                 1             1           --             54       147
9         33              10                2                 1            1            --             50       148
10         33              19                2                 1             1           --             50       148
11         36              10                2                 1            1            --             53       1148
12         36              10                2                 1             1           --             53       148
13-25       36              10                2                 1            2            --             54       148
Economic Rate of Return                                                                               a,
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange 1
Basic (Import Substitution)                   24
Benefits Minus 10%                            21
Benefits Minue 20%                            17
Costs Plus 10%                                21
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%            18
Export :/                                     20
Without Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange
Basic                                         21
j  Based on cost data presented in ANNEX 11.
/  Includes the costs of research, the Kenya Sugar Authority, net value of production foregone
and farm family labor (i.e. KShs. 3 million per year at full development).
3   Based on sugar import parity price of KShs. 4,796/t for 1978-84 and KShs. 5,363/t for 1985 and
onwards, and export parity price of KShs. 350 for molasses.
4/ The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00 = US$ 1.00.
Based on sugar export parity price of KShs. 4,189/t for 1978-84 and KShs. 4,739/t for 1985 and onwards.
December 9, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Ana sis
Drainage (Nyanza Sugar Belt)
(Kshs./ha)
Incremental Costs                                                  Incremental
Housing,         General                    Benefits 2j
Farm Family     Production                 Social       Administration
Year     Agriculture 1/ Drainage 3/      Labor         Foregone      Roads     Amenities     Research and KSA     Total
1         3,954         2,490           341            193          75           47              166            7,266       4,041
2         2,020           527           341            193          75           47              166            3,369       4,293
3        2,020            540           341            193          75           47              166            3,382       4,546
4        2,020            553           341            193          75           47              166            3,395       4,798
5         2,020           566           341            193          75           47              166            3,408       5,051
6         3,954         1,045          341             193          75           47              166            5,821       5,-051
7         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,051
8         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
9         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
10^       2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
11         3,954         1,045           341            193          75           47              166            5,821       5,900
12        2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
13        2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
14        2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
15        2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
16         3,954         1,045           341            193          75           47              166            5,821       5,900
17        2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
18        2,020            592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
19         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166            3,434       5,900
20         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166             3,434      5,900
21         3,954         1,045           341            193          75           47              166            5,821        5,900
22         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166             3,434      5,900
23         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166             3,434       5,900
24         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166             3,434       5,900
25         2,020           592           341            193          75           47              166             3,434       5,900
Economic Rate of Return
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange 4/
Basic (Import Substitution)               38
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%        14
/  Includes capital, non-variable, variable costs and harvesting and transportation of inciemental productimn.
Based on incremental yields of 39 t/ha/year.
3/ Priced at 55% of maxket wage rate.
The assumed shadow foreign exchange sate is 11.00 * US$ 1.oo.
July 20, 1977



KENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Irrigation (Uyanza Sugar Belt)
(KShs./ha)
Incremental Costs                                                           Incremental
Housing,         General                    Benefits ?1
Agriculture                                 Farm Family     Production                 Social       Administration,
Year         V           Drainage     Irrigation       Labor 3/       Foregone      Roads    Amenities      Research and KSA     Total
1         5,039         2,490          15,914          420            193           75         47               166           24,344       10,577
2         3,105           527           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,737        11,238
3         3,105           54o           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,750        11,899
4         3,105           553           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,763       12,560
5         3,105           566           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,776        13,221
6         5,039         1,o45           2,391          420            193           75         47               166            9,376        13,221
7         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        13,221
8         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
9         3,105          S792           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
10         3,105           592           1,204.         420            193           75         47               166            5,802       15,444
11         5,039         1,o45           2,391          420            193           75         47               166            9,376        15,444
12         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
13         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
14         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
15         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
16         5,039         1,045           2,391          420            193           75         47               166            9,376        15,444
17         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
18         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166            5,802        15,444
19         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47               166             5,802       15,444
20         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47                166            5,802       i5,444
21         5,039         1,045           2,391          420            193           75         47                166            9,376       15,444
22         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47                166            5,802       15,444
23         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47                166            5,802       15,444
24         3,105           592           1,204          420            193           75         47                166            5,802       15,444
25         3,105           592           1,204         1420            193           75         47                166            5,802-      15,444
Economic Rate of Return
With Shadow-Pricing of Foreign Exchange J
Basic (Import Substitution)                 46
Costs Plus 10%, Benefits Minus 10%          28
Includes capital, non-variable, variable costs and harvesting and transportation cests of
incremental production.
E Based on incremental yields of 39 t/ha/year.
Priced at 55% of market wage rates.
J  The assumed shadow foreign exchange rate is KShs. 11.00   US$ 1 oo.
July 20, 1977






BRD 12990
/   >  -TV>                                                                                                     ~~~~~               ~         ~~~~~KENYA   srt7
Cs )   >                                                          SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
/s \  "Nyanza Sugor Belt-Miwani
LAND SUITABILITY FOR CANE
/Ci  1 -.  .   S   I _   n  t e   ' S  '  h  o n     d  M td mi -A li , W detl e nre so .  n  gE e n e  io
From the Notd Es-erp-teert hr-rtards th ere jdt slopes  I th Lon ndne y- es y
a ,p cempi csi lond seetbbility pttern w th aobet 15 %                                                                                                                            e h g  nge    -ni  d
of rhe Nandi Pliteo- in Glsses S 1, S 2 fe none 
Dtor b,ron ef ite- perreia  , orosea.trane-St                                                                                                                 ~~l -   rtbin ee,teetneede
ted I. grtoeget, ent cean C-kr                                                                                                 S tntoble            rIotneen eepepe  (highH,ee I Badie fends) endl
Ct ti             <  tmeo,pser  trrel eratrg   M         C d  -
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- F -.h ;:~ ,, io, y o-
C1.   4/L  Mesl f,r te oa. In tee Leo Bet.earelgn
Pre n               the en st t, let enAr hgist ett runes st...
GoceB I/Cr  r    Stern d lan  te  eer  -L tebi ttfcass   t,d Lele
-------                                                                                                                                            Pr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     hemtr ', naeGnsB-I H   Beg  grea   Best M od eMd
0 nurb  'Bend eesnrn  aoepanin  in is G at
C  Bendac  bereer High are tld-r r     ,date
VA                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Be-dere bitanerI Manrem are Loa Bere
-  t                                                       ,               %}   Beget~~~~~~~~~~~~-d~ tee pry p dP,y-
Ve crlo                                     r                    teI,rI tte-
K  E N    C   A






K ENYA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Nyanza Sugar Beif-Cheme Ii and Muharoni
LAND SUITABILITY FOR CANE
(LASS S-i             n1 Hli nor, VTiS ne-r A tltde Bones nose -sn-l 
B gnly         en~~~.) rInd bA meInAr    enie on gentle to
-d-t,ennoerleseo   In Ire  ow. Bond con  y IAore
high ones o dnlnge syste- i0 innnllnd
CLASS S-2            MInenorl1 t~~Y-l --nie sefoet-neLd
t)  ~ ~ ~   ~              ~              ~              ~             ~              ~~                           ~~.th~~~~~~~~~~~~, tt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pni  oeinn~ Ihh  dMnd-o  o-re Led
S f   -,              The  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            \    / ~~~~~~     C.ASSS~ S-             o In noi1-er irp -rnebe  Id Ineoln trhe 
Boondo  niesof nrene ornn oe
so ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~th   ho   I,MinA   ge.itd     t 
t.6                         Id   -1-olyNr lA
N__~~~~~~~~~~~~~=d.Zgdg
I-  I                                                                                                                 \             '-C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l         g   Idd 1 MtW -Bn






r t77 4 X b.,.R  1                      ,            <                     J                                             w                     . t/D1.- RD'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD 2971
- - -  - - -                                                                                                                                         DE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M SOKR iliO
| = Xx w ODt DD.S DfA                                                                                 ToH  {. d/ 
or                  4- H I;             5        0 I M 5 A   H I  s L     N A T I 0 NA
Ai                              _         OFOEHO40iF|KtorTw
R E 5 E R~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~       ~        ~      ~       SUA   EHBLTAINPRJC
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~LN  SUTBIIY OACN
L.= i                              > Vvshemoni |                                          .                                  |        c,      f       2 xst?so    r t       no
a __i
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rdil ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Pnliai    iotounotrnn eao tvnies rhvlndiaetgig
NO,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                                                              n evmd          u myhv aenoeoeyovttl n  agnlte
dob~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~~  U>  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /~~1                                                          -
b.                                                                                                                                         o emneeObcon fealntbetOn
~~~~~~~  )                                                                                        -       bo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~undary of tibona  Renaf
pati he     of ai  n     of.  ain p  an   id.s
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~md o~o ihyt  d.eystl n.,W9



