                                  Document of
                              The World Bank


                                                   Report No: ICR00002952


         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-73650)


                                    ON A

                                  CREDIT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 80 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                      CAPITAL DISTRICT OF BOGOTA

         WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                   FOR A

        BOGOTA DISASTER VULNERABILITY REDUCTION PROJECT

                IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE

            DISASTER VULNERABILITY REDUCTION PROGRAM


                                July 17, 2014




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regions
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective July 17, 2014)

                Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                    US$ 1.00 = COP$ 1,868.41


                           FISCAL YEAR

                     January 1 - December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan
BUS     Bogota Urban Services
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CVP     Social Housing Fund
DABS    Department of Social Welfare
DAMA    District Environmental Management Agency
DPAD    National Directorate for Disaster Prevention and Response
DPAE    Directorate for Prevention and Emergency Response
DVRP    Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project
FFDS    District Health Fiduciary Fund
FOPAE   Fund for Prevention and Response to Emergencies
FOREC   Coffee Belt Reconstruction Fund
GoC     Government of Colombia
GoCDB   Government of Capital District of Bogota
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LAC     Latin America and Caribbean Region
PNPAD   National Plan for Prevention and Disaster Response
POT     Land Use Plan
SDPAE   District System for Prevention and Emergency Response
SDA     District Environment Secretariat
SDIS    District Social Integration Secretariat
SDS     District Health Secretariat
SED     District Education Secretariat
SG      Government Secretariat
SHD     District Secretariat of Finance
SIRE    Information System for Disaster Prevention and Emergency Response
SNPAD   National System for Prevention and Disaster Response
UPC     Project Coordination Unit
      Vice President:   Jorge Familiar
    Country Director:   Gloria Grandolini
  Practice Manager:     Anna Wellenstein
Project Team Leader:    Eric Dickson
   ICR Team Leader:     Javier Sanchez-Reaza
                                     COLOMBIA
            Bogota Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project in support of the
             Second Phase of the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Program




                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


    1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .................................................. 1
    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
    3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................. 11
    4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................ 20
    5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 20
    6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................... 22
    7. Comments On Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....... 24
    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ....................................................................... 25
    Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................. 26
    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................. 38
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......... 42
    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................ 45
    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................ 46
    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................. 50
    Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................... 52
    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................... 53
    Annex 10. Map .......................................................................................................... 53
A. Basic Information
                                                                 Disaster Vulnerability
Country:                  Colombia          Project Name:
                                                                 Reduction Project - APL2
Project ID:               P085727           Credit Numbers:      IBRD-73650
ICR Date:                 07/10/2014        ICR Type:            Core ICR
Lending Instrument:       APL               Borrower:            Sub-national, Bogota
Original Total
                          US$ 80M           Disbursed Amount: US$ 63.46M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           US$ 77.55M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Bogota District
Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process         Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/04/2005       Effectiveness:         10/13/2006        10/13/2006
                                                                                06/24/2009
                                                                                05/30/2011
Appraisal:            07/01/2005       Restructuring(s):
                                                                                11/13/2012
                                                                                12/20/2012
Approval:             03/03/2006       Mid-term Review:                         03/20/2009
                                       Closing:               06/30/2011        01/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Low
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                    Ratings              Borrower                   Ratings
 Quality at Entry:      Moderately Satisfactory Government:             Satisfactory
 Quality of                                     Implementing
                        Satisfactory                                    Moderately Satisfactory
 Supervision:                                   Agency/Agencies:
 Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
 Performance:                                   Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                   QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                        (if any)
Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                                     No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
                                                                                    Highly
Problem Project at any                              Quality of                Satisfactory/Likely
                                     Yes
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):       (QALP-1 Assessment
                                                                               date 09/24/2008)
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       3                  3
General education sector                                               35               35
Health                                                                 50               50
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                   2                  2
Other social services                                                  10               10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                          25                  25
Natural disaster management                                            50                  50
Participation and civic engagement                                     25                  25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Jorge Familiar                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:           Gloria Grandolini                    Isabel Guerrero
Program/Sector
                            Anna Wellenstein                     John Henry Stein
Manager:
Project Team Leader:        Eric Dickson                         Francis Ghesquiere
ICR Team Leader:            Javier Sanchez-Reaza
ICR Primary Authors:        Javier Sanchez-Reaza
                            André Carletto
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The purpose of this APL2 project is to reduce the vulnerability of the Capital District of Bogota
to adverse natural events, by: (i) strengthening its capacity to manage Disaster risks, and (ii)
reducing vulnerability in key sectors.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

There were no changes to the original PDO throughout the life of the Project.

 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                                          Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Formally Revised                     Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target Values                      Completion or
                                             documents)                                            Target Years
Indicator 1:        Reduction in identified population at risk.
Value
Quantitative or            604,0001                  480,000                                           236,972
Qualitative)
Date achieved            03/03/2006                                                      01/31/2014
                    Target surpassed by 40%. The Project effectively reduced the population at risk
Comments
                    from 604,000 to 236,972, through the development of risk maps and other
(Incl. % of
                    studies that enabled the District to identify high-risk areas and prioritize key
achievement)
                    actions to reduce vulnerability.2
Indicator 2:        Reduction in estimated average annual loss.
Value
Quantitative or               N/A                      N/A                                               3.9%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            03/03/2006                                                     01/31/2014
                    Baselines/targets were not set for this indicator in the PAD. Civil works were
Comments            carried out to retrofit schools/kindergartens and to prevent landslides/flooding
(Incl. % of         that overall reduced the intervened buildings’ vulnerability and potential losses.
achievement)        The probable maximum loss (PML) of a 1-in-100-year earthquake was estimated
                    to decrease from 6.1 to 2.2%.3




1
  The original baseline of 600,000 was adjusted in the Mid-Term Review.
2
  Although maps and studies do not reduce risk per se, they were used as inputs to prioritize actions and areas towards
the completion of risk reduction and resettlement components.
3
  Source: Ghesquiere et al. (2006)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target                                              Actual Value
                                        Values (from                    Formally Revised             Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                          approval                       Target Values              Completion or
                                         documents)                                                 Target Years
Indicator 1:       1.a Improved understanding of risks
Value
Quantitative or          N/A                   N/A                                        1,762
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                        01/31/2014
Comments        Baselines/targets were not set for this indicator in the PAD, however a series of
(Incl. % of     training activities were carried out to strengthen capacity of safety wardens in
achievement) public schools benefiting 1,762 teachers.4
Indicator 2: 1.b Increased capacity to monitor risks
Value
Quantitative or         900 ha                700 ha                                     543 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                        01/31/2014
                Target surpassed by 22%. The Project was very successful reducing the total non-
Comments
                monitored risk area to 543 ha. To that effect the district carried out 57 risk
(Incl. % of
                assessment studies, 40 building-retrofitting designs, and 3 networks were
achievement)
                extended to monitor geotechnical and landslide risks.
                Increased proportion of public buildings (schools, hospitals, fire stations) resistant
Indicator 3:
                to earthquakes.
Value
Quantitative or        580,0005              455,000                                    235,183
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                        01/31/2014
Comments        Target surpassed by 38%. This indicator was set based on the number of people
(Incl. % of     exposed to risk in public buildings, and as a result of the Project a total of 344,817
achievement) people in public buildings are now safer.
Indicator 4: 4.a Increased capacity of agencies involved in SDPAE.
Value
Quantitative or          N/A                   N/A                                        5,730
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                        01/31/2014
                Baselines and targets were not set for this indicator in the PAD. However, 74
Comments        training courses, including rescue techniques and decision making during a crisis,
(Incl. % of     were carried out targeting operational personnel from Firefighters, Civil Defense,
achievement) Red Cross, Fund for Prevention and Response to Emergencies (FOPAE), District
                Health Secretariat (SDS) and District Social Integration Secretariat (SDIS).



4 Since a target was neither set at implementation, this ICR considers that using the number of teachers that were
trained, not only reflects the dissemination of a better understanding of DRM, but also that this activity could have
served as a the multiplier effect over a wider population being more aware of risks and their implications.
5
  The original baseline of 600,000 was adjusted in the Mid-Term Review
                   4.b Number of agencies integrated in the Information System for Disaster
Indicator 5:
                   Prevention and Emergency Response (SIRE)
Value
Quantitative or                2                         8                                                 18
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                     01/31/2014
                Target surpassed by 10 agencies. By Project closing, a total of 18 agencies were
Comments
                incorporated in SIRE, including District Institute of Risk Management and
(Incl. % of
                Climate Change (IDIGER) and Local DRM Councils (by neighborhood), among
achievement)
                others.
Indicator 6: Reduction in the number of families living in high risk.
Value
Quantitative or 25,0006 people           700 households                          1.067 households
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                     01/31/2014
Comments
                Target surpassed by 53%. 367 additional families living in the Nueva Esperanza
(Incl. % of
                neighborhood were resettled to safer locations with secure housing tenure.
achievement)
Indicator 7: Increased coverage of public and private assets against natural disasters.
Value
Quantitative or           0                  2 studies                                  N/A7
Qualitative)
Date achieved        03/03/2006                                                     01/31/2014
                Target not met. Although evidence of studies to reduce the District’s fiscal
Comments
                vulnerability to disasters were provided during the ICR workshop, these studies
(Incl. % of
                were not delivered, disseminated or used in planning before Project closing, and
achievement)
                therefore no contribution to the achievement of the PDO was registered.
Indicator 8: Construction progress in hospitals.
Value
Quantitative or         23.9%                 100%                                      57%
Qualitative)
Date achieved        12/20/2012            12/31/2013                               01/31/2014
Comments        Target not met. In spite of two restructurings extending the Project’s closing date,
(Incl. % of     limitations in contract management, institutional arrangements, and recurrent
achievement) delays in construction contributed to the underperformance of this indicator.




6
  While the indicator was expressed in reduction of families living under high risk, the baseline was set as number of
people. The Subcomponent D.4 description at the PAD establishes as target “u p to 700 households have been
earmarked for resettlement to safer locations with secure housing tenure”; therefore, this indicator was measured in
number of households. For planning purposes, the Bogota District’s Planning Department assumed that a
household/family is composed by an average of four individuals.
7
  This ICR registered this outcome as N/A since no evidence was provided by the Client on whether public buildings
were insured or not.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
No.    Date ISR
                              DO                        IP               Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
 1     06/01/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
 2     12/18/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
 3     06/04/2007         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
 4     12/15/2007         Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory               6.09
 5     06/20/2008         Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory               6.09
 6     08/28/2008      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                6.09
 7     01/09/2009      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                6.09
 8     08/19/2009      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                6.09
 9     03/23/2010      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                6.09
 10    11/06/2010      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                6.09
 11    06/22/2011      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory               37.94
 12    12/24/2011      Highly Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory               50.24
 13    07/10/2012         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               50.24
 14    01/29/2013         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               58.15
 15    12/03/2013         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               58.15

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Based on MTR: (a) revision of
                                                     the extent of works under
                                                     Component B to reflect a
                                                     reduction of the number of
                                                     retrofitting or rebuilding works;
                                                     (b) increase of the construction
 06/24/2009               HS     MS         6.09
                                                     of new buildings where this was
                                                     found to be more efficient than
                                                     retrofitting old buildings, and (c)
                                                     changes to the environment and
                                                     social safeguards arrangements
                                                     described in the PAD
                                                     Extension of Project closing date
                                                     to December 31, 2012, to allow
                                                     the completion of seven hospitals
 05/30/2011               HS     MS        37.94
                                                     and reallocation of unallocated
                                                     Loan proceeds of US$ 4,683,000
                                                     between categories.
                                           Extension of the Project closing
                                           date to January 31, 2014 to allow
  12/20/2012              S   MS   58.15   the completion of four hospitals,
                                           and cancelation of civil works of
                                           three hospitals.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Sector Background. Colombia is highly prone to natural disasters.
The country straddles the Andean mountain region and Pacific “belt of fire”, where high
seismic potential combines with volcanic activity. In the last 25 years, the country has
suffered six major earthquakes, three volcanic eruptions, major landslides, and extensive
flooding. The location –in high-risk prone areas- and the speed of urbanization have led
to an increased exposure to risk, and have increased the country’s vulnerability to adverse
natural events.

2.      With around 7.7 million inhabitants, and 26 percent of national GDP, the Capital
District of Bogota is by far Colombia’s largest concentration of economic activity, yet it
is also located in a region prone to earthquakes, floods, and landslides. The District’s
total surface is 1,777.98 km2 of which 27 percent are urban or suburban areas. Growing
at an average annual population growth rate of 1.48 percent,8 the city sits on the oriental
branch of the Andean mountain chain and is exposed to a variety of hazards including
floods and forest fires, with medium to high exposure to seismic activity. Modeling
exercises financed during project preparation estimate that a major earthquake occurring
in Bogota could result in losses in excess of US$10 billion 9 with serious social and
economic repercussions on both human welfare and the national economy.

3.     Government strategy. Since the inception of the National System for Prevention
and Disaster Response (SNPAD) after the 1983 Popayan earthquake, the Government of
Colombia (GoC) shifted to a broader disaster risk management (DRM) approach and
focused on risk identification, risk reduction, and risk transfer. As a result national
programs were decentralized by the active participation of regional agencies and local
government addressing local risks. In addition, a series of laws have helped to shape a
national DRM framework, particularly by establishing seismic-resistant building
standards for new construction, a timeline for the retrofitting of key public facilities such
as hospitals and fire stations, and Land Use Plans (POT) to promote and direct territorial
planning and urban management processes.

4.      Bogota already has many important elements of a disaster management system.
The Government of the Capital District of Bogota (GoCDB) has adapted the SNPAD at
the municipal level through the District System for Prevention and Emergency Response
(SDPAE), bringing together public, private, and community actors involved in risk
management under the leadership of the Mayor. Further legislation was approved in 2004,
strengthening the System by defining organizational roles and responsibilities for


8
  Colombia’s National Statistics Agency (DANE) has estimated Bogota’s population growth rate for the
period between the 2005 census and 2010.
9
   Exposición del Estado Colombiano ante Desatres Naturales, PHRD Study, Omar Dario Cardona, 2005



                                                  1
participating agencies, coordination mechanisms, and a mandate to formulate a 10-year
Plan for the Prevention and Attention to Emergencies in the District.

5.     The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Progress Report, approved by the Board
on September 9th 2005, proposed a strategy for consolidating the Bank’s partnership with
Colombia over the following two years (FY06-FY07), including natural disaster risk
management in support of: (i) Achieving Fast and Sustainable Growth, and (ii) Sharing
Growth with all Colombians. In this context, the CAS recognized that the country’s
macroeconomic stability would benefit from improved DRM and a reduction in Bogota’s
exposure to adverse natural events.

6.       Rationale for the Bank’s involvement. Colombia’s 2005 CAS priority of
“achieving a fast sustainable growth” required the strengthening of the national disaster
risk mitigation and reduction framework. As a result, the Bank was in a unique position
to support investments in retrofitting infrastructure and strengthening the economic,
institutional, and social aspects of disaster risk management.

7.      The Bank has been proactively supporting DRM in Colombia since the late 1990s,
and in 2005 approved a three-phased Adaptable Program Loan (APL).10 The Program
was aimed at reducing the State’s fiscal vulnerability to adverse natural events by
strengthening national capacity to manage disaster risk and at reducing vulnerability in
key municipalities. Although highly exposed to disasters, the selected municipalities
contribute significantly to national income and productivity. The APL represented one of
the more innovative experiences in addressing urban risk reduction through a multi-
faceted approach. It also represented an opportunity to move away from a focus on
emergency, reconstruction and deferred maintenance finance, towards a comprehensive
disaster risk management. In particular, the APL2 was the first DRM experience at sub-
national level in the region.

8.     Finally, mitigation and prevention works would reduce the vulnerability of key
premises that provide social services to the general population (for example, schools,
hospitals, vital roads, and water systems). The prevention of illegal/unsustainable
settlements and the relocation of families from hazard-prone areas -where the poorest
tend to live- would reduce both, their exposure to natural hazards and associated
economic losses. Lastly, risk-transfer mechanisms designed under the Project would
provide insurance mechanisms.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators




10
     On May 10, 2005, the Board approved the Colombia-Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project.




                                                          2
9.      The purpose of this APL2 Project was to reduce the vulnerability of the Capital
District of Bogota to adverse natural events, by: (i) strengthening its capacity to manage
Disaster risk, and (ii) reducing vulnerability in key sectors.11

10.     According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the key indicators were:
 Improved knowledge of risk, vulnerability, and hazard conditions;
 Increased proportion of key infrastructure with improved structural integrity;
 Improved capacity of agencies that are part of the emergency response and prevention
    system;
 Reduced number of families living in risk-prone areas;
 Improved financial resilience of the district of Bogota.

11.     For reporting and analysis purposes, this ICR used the Results Framework matrix
in the PAD (Annex 3) as presented in the Data Sheet. However, it is important to bear in
mind that supervision and evaluation were hampered by the lack of baselines, targets and
quantitative indicators for some of the intermediate outcome indicators and PDO
indicators matrices.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.      There were no changes to the original PDO throughout the life of the Project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

13.     Natural disasters disproportionately affect poor and socially vulnerable groups
who tend to live in areas prone to risk, particularly in buildings that have not been subject
to formal sector codes or regulations. These groups typically lack any type of economic
safety net such as insurance plans.

14.    Overall, the Project's direct beneficiaries included: (a) households in the District
of Bogota who benefited from a strengthened DRM framework; (b) authorities and
technical staff of the GoCDB benefiting from technical assistance, and improved
coordination with DRM agencies; and (c) DRM agencies, which benefited from an
improved governance structure and capacity development. The Project had a major
beneficial impact on vulnerable population, whom are at greater risk of losing their lives,
property, and assets in a natural disaster.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

15.      The Project had five original components:



11
  Although the PDO statement in the PAD and the legal agreement differ slightly, this ICR will use the PDO in the
Loan Agreement.




                                                         3
A. Risk Identification (Total US$4.5 million, US$ 0 million from IBRD). This
   component aimed to enhance the capacity of the District of Bogota to identify and
   monitor risks in order to better target its investments and identify potential calamities
   before they occur, through hazard identification, vulnerability assessments and risk
   mapping.

B. Risk Reduction (Total US$104.3 million, US$ 78.6 million from IBRD). This
   component intended to complement the city government's existing risk reduction
   efforts to critical facilities and lifeline infrastructure in the event of a disaster by
   supporting the implementation of nonstructural and functional mitigation measures
   for service to continue during and after emergencies. Activities under this component
   included the engineering designs, retrofitting or construction works in public
   buildings to meet the latest seismic standards, and small mitigation works to mitigate
   landslides.

C. Institutional Strengthening (Total US$ 7.5 million, US$ 1.1 million from IBRD).
   This component aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and capacity of the District
   Administration to prepare for, respond to, and recover from significant emergencies.
   In this context, the component also supported the strengthening of the District's
   capacity to implement the project. Activities financed under this component included
   training of participating agencies’ staff in safeguard, fiduciary, and technical aspects
   of the project, capacity building for Prevention and Emergency Response, and the
   implementation of an environmental management strategy to strengthen compliance
   of district public works with environmental requirements.

D. Risk Prevention and Awareness (Total US$20.9 million, US$ 0 million from IBRD).
   The objective of this component was to increase awareness at all levels of society,
   but particularly at the community level in order to convey the importance of risk
   mitigation and disaster preparedness. Activities carried out under this component
   included risk education, information campaign, and resettlement of approximately
   2,300 families living in high-risk areas.

E. Financial Coverage for Risk Management (Total US$0.5 million, US$0.3 million
   from IBRD). This component objective was to develop a risk-financing strategy for
   losses arising from natural disasters. It aimed at providing the Municipality of Bogota
   D.C. with a financial strategy that guaranteed the appropriation of resources needed
   for disaster reconstruction or rehabilitation based on the most advanced catastrophe-
   risk modeling techniques (probabilistic earthquake risk models) and financial
   instruments (parametric insurance, contingent debt and/or catastrophe bonds). It also
   intended to facilitate the development of a private catastrophe insurance market,
   based on recent experiences in Colombia.

1.6 Revised Components

16.    There were no changes to the Components throughout the life of the Project.




                                             4
1.7 Other significant changes

17.     2009 Project Restructuring. Based on the need to streamline Project activities, a
first Project restructuring was approved in June 2009 that included: (a) revision of the
extent of works under Component B: Risk Reduction, to reflect a reduction in the number
of retrofitting or rebuilding works; (b) an increase in the construction of new buildings
where this was found to be more efficient than retrofitting old buildings, and (c) changes
to the environment and social safeguards arrangements described in the PAD.

18.     2011 Project Restructuring. In May 2011, a second Project restructuring was
approved to allow the completion of seven hospitals, and included: (a) an extension of the
Project closing date from June 30th 2011 to December 31, 2012; and (b) a reallocation of
Loan proceeds of US$ 4,683,000 between categories from category 6 (unallocated) to
categories 1, 2, and 3 (works and training, works and training, and goods and training).

19.    2012 Project Restructuring. A third Project restructuring was approved 12 on
December 19th 2012 that included: (a) an extension of the Project closing date from
December 31st 2012 to January 31st 2014; (b) the cancellation of financing for civil works
of two hospitals (Antonio Nariño and Pablo VI Bosa) of the six unfinished hospitals
given the non-fulfillment of the respective milestones; and (c) the inclusion of an
additional indicator to measure weighted progress on hospital construction.

20.    Extension of Closing Dates. The Project officially ended in January 2014 after
two closing date extensions: (a) with the May 2011 restructuring from June 30th 2011 to
December 31st 2012 to allow for additional time to complete civil works in seven
hospitals; and (b) with the December 2012 restructuring, to January 31st 2014 to provide
additional time for completing the civil works of four hospitals.

21.     Reallocation of funds across expenditure categories. The 2011 restructuring
reallocated credit proceeds from categories that had savings in order to support the
completion of civil works in seven hospitals.

22.    Funds cancellation. In September 2009, a total of US$ 2.45 million were
cancelled due to misprocurement on the contracting related to the retrofitting of five
kindergartens. At project closing a total of US$ 16.5 million unused funds were cancelled
from the original loan.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry



12
  Such approval followed a conditional extension approved in September 2012 that was granted to complete a set of
milestones by November 30th 2012.




                                                         5
23.     Soundness of Background Analysis. Project design was based on a thorough
analysis of the country’s DRM program. During project preparation, there was a growing
body of knowledge and lessons learned on DRM and emergency projects within and
outside the Bank. Moreover, the Project design benefited from lessons learned with the
Bank-financed disaster risk management projects that incorporated risk analysis, local
risk-reduction investments, and risk-transfer elements. These included the Honduras and
Nicaragua Disaster Mitigation Projects, the Mexico Disaster Management Loan, the
Colombia Earthquake Recovery Project, the Turkey Earthquake Reconstruction Project,
and the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) Catastrophe Risk Management
and Insurance Reform Project. The team also benefited from the experience of the Bank-
financed Bogota Urban Services project under implementation since 2003.

24.     Assessment of Project Design. The PDO focused mainly on increased capacity
for disaster vulnerability reduction in the District of Bogota and seemed achievable in a
five-year period. The objective was clear and important for the country as indicated in the
2005 CAS. Additionally, the Project was proposed as the second phase of a three-phased
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The original choice of an APL stemmed from the need
to address sector issues at the national level in order to create a platform for coordinating
and supporting risk reduction activities, together with targeted interventions, in regions
that combine the greatest economic productivity with high vulnerability to natural
disasters. A second reason to use the APL stemmed from the need to allow municipalities
to enter the program as they were ready and as they present viable disaster reduction
investment plans. This would have therefore allowed parallel interventions in different
municipalities, entering the Program at different times, but operating under the same
national framework.

25.      The Project was designed to benefit from the initial results of APL1, but also to
contribute to it through improved coordination with national entities and through studies
requiring the involvement of both the national and local level. The strategic choices
underlying the original Project design reflect lessons learned on DRM. As part of a
Program, the Project focused on reducing the GoCDB’s fiscal vulnerability to adverse
natural events by strengthening national capacity to manage disaster risk. Although
APL1’s appraisal took place only a few months prior to appraisal for the APL2, the
Project benefitted from the experience the APL1 offered. The latter was informative in
facilitating direct execution arrangements for Executing Partners in the former. APL1
was also useful for to design the APL2 as the former evinced the need to strengthen risk
identification and analysis.

26.    Although safeguard risks were properly addressed at Project design through
Banks safeguard policies, adjustments to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were
needed to enable environment and social safeguards arrangements.

27.   Project components were clearly formulated and conducive to PDO achievement.
Based on close collaboration between the Bank and the GoCDB, project design




                                             6
emphasized: (i) risk identification and reduction, (ii) institutional strengthening, (iii) risk
mitigation, and (iv) financial coverage for risk management.

28.      Risk Assessment. Overall project risk was assessed as Moderate at appraisal.
This rating, in retrospect, seems to have gauged the challenges of the project related to its
innovative nature and institutional weaknesses. Most of the identified risks materialized
during project implementation, while in several cases the proposed mitigation measures
were effective. One of these risks, rated as moderate –Capacity of project management
activities will make it difficult to follow Bank fiduciary and procurement guidelines–
materialized on two occasions: (i) in 2009, when the mitigation measure resulted in
cancelling funds due to misprocurement on contracting civil works proved effective, and
(ii) towards the second half of the implementation, where difficulties in contract
management prevented seven civil works from being finished on time, requiring two
extensions of project closing date.

2.2 Implementation

29.     For most of the Project’s lifespan, implementation was adequate due to strong
Government commitment. However, delays and limitations in contract management
impinged on implementation progress resulting in a rating of moderately satisfactory at
Project closing.

Several factors helped implementation positively:

30.     Continuous Government-Bank partnership and strong Government commitment.
The Government and the Bank built a solid partnership on DRM, which has ensured
continuous technical and financial support and close collaboration free from political
changes in the District. In parallel, throughout project implementation the GoCDB
demonstrated its commitment to PDO achievement. The adoption of local environment
policies and construction guidelines for all new constructions in Bogota safeguarded the
effort on retrofitting and reconstruction.

31.     Implementing Agency’s technical capacity of staff. The implementing institutions,
without exception, have staff with a high level of dedication and professionalism, which
has positively benefited project implementation. A sound understanding of the Project
and a strong commitment to the achievement of its objectives is also worth highlighting.

32.     Efficient local procurement system. Development of a procurement system that in
addition to complying with Bank’s principles, enabled local competition, resulting in
competitive prices and a more efficient and transparent implementation of the
selection/bidding evaluation process.

Several factors affected implementation adversely:

33.     Unrealistic target setting. Weaknesses during project execution were evidenced
by: (i) the lack of consistency between district’s policies/sector development plans and



                                              7
project goals led to a discrepancy between targeted hospitals by the Project and those
considered under Bogota’s Health Master Plan and the District’s Biannual Strategic Plan,
and (ii) the gap between project targets and reality on the ground, given the lack of pre-
feasibility studies, that were neither addressed at Project design, nor in any of the
subsequent restructurings.

34.     Limitations on PIU’s administration and control. Complex implementation
arrangements given GoCDB’s structure included six sector agencies responsible for the
implementation of components/activities. SDH faced obstacles to enforce reporting and
project management as executing agencies received resources directly, which effectively
reduced incentives to comply with reporting and advancing mechanisms.

35.      Health sector’s legal framework. Delays in project implementation due to the
particular health system legal framework effectively prevented both SDH and SDS from
ensuring proper execution of project activity. As hospitals operate independently from
SDS as Empresas Sociales del Estado (State-owned Social Enterprises), strong
coordination issues arose during project implementation delaying extensively the
retrofitting and new construction activities. An action plan was prepared to address the
resulting delays and meet construction targets during grace period after project closing
date; nevertheless, these works were not finished (see Annex 2 for a list of hospitals and
their status).

36.    Civil works planning weaknesses. Shortcomings in technical and financial
planning of some implementing agencies to ensure compliance of civil works, building
designs/plans approved in spite of technical deficiencies, as well as an underestimation of
required timeframes to obtain building permit and connections to public utilities, led to
delays and additional operational costs.

37.     High staff turnover and low filing effort. Project implementation has been
adversely affected by a staff turnover in various agencies within the GoCDB. Delays in
project implementation were linked to low institutional memory and lack of incentives to
file documents related to contract decisions and agreements as evidenced in the 2011
Independent Procurement Review report.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

38.     M&E design. The original Project Results Matrix (detailed in Annex 1 of the
PAD) had shortcomings, especially if assessed on the basis of current M&E practice. The
PDO outcome indicator should be better defined in terms of accuracy, where it states two
indicators but only provide baseline and target for one. In addition, baselines in several
intermediary outcome indicators fell in the same problem of the PDO, or were not well
defined by corresponding data; in particular, the indicator for number of affected families
in high-risk area was expressed in population figures. Nonetheless, development of a
practical methodology and baseline surveys to measure some of the key potential
environmental, social and economic impacts identified in the PAD should have been
attempted at the time of the original design.



                                            8
39.     Building on the MTR revision results, the 2009 Project Restructuring missed the
opportunity to address the inconsistencies of the M&E design, by establishing better
indicators’ measurement units.

40.      Implementation and Use. Appropriate data for PDO indicators were not always
systematically collected, especially in the initial implementation phase. Thanks to the
GoCDB’s concerted effort and enhanced inter-institutional coordination, particularly with
the Fund for Prevention and Response to Emergencies (FOPAE) overall M&E was
carried out effectively, and monitoring reports were used appropriately for project
management and preparation of a final report. A Project Impact Evaluation was
contracted to an independent evaluator; nevertheless, due to contract management issues
its final report will not be ready by the time of the presentation of this ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

41.     Safeguard Compliance. The Project was classified as Category B, and triggered
the following policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Involuntary
Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 11.03). As reflected
in the 2009 Restructuring Package,13 MTR and ISRs, the main findings are:

42.     Environmental Safeguards. The project has promoted positive impacts on the
environment through the District Environment Secretariat’s (SDA) work on
environmental awareness through social networks, linking over 40 organizations, to
encourage and coordinate prevention activities in hazard-prone areas. The project also
financed the administration of protected land through community participation schemes.
In addition, the environment management activities included: (a) identification,
evaluation, and monitoring of risks; (b) risk mitigation works; (c) institutional
strengthening activities including environmental management; and (d) natural hazards
prevention and awareness. However since civil works were carried out (schools, hospitals,
kindergartens, fire stations and some minor flood mitigation works) as part of the project,
some usual construction related environment impacts were registered. The environmental
impacts, associated with these interventions, where not expected to be and have not been
significant or irreversible. No buildings with cultural heritage value have been retrofitted;
therefore the discussion of OP 4.11 is not relevant.

Although the GoCDB’s institutional capacity to enforce environmental regulations was
considered weak at Project preparation, and thus private construction initiatives and
public works have not fulfilled their environmental responsibilities at the time, the
Project was very successful in providing technical support for establishing environmental
guidelines and strengthening the institutional capacity to enforce environmental
regulations.


13
   The 2009 Restructuring allowed the construction of new buildings when these were more cost-effective than
retrofitting and therefore the environmental and social safeguards were updated to reflect this change.




                                                         9
43.     Social Safeguards. The social safeguard compliance is also considered generally
satisfactory. Based on supervision missions and the assessments mentioned above, it is
concluded that GoCDB’s procedures, regulations, policies, and institutional capacity
were adequate to implement resettlement processes to the Bank’s satisfaction. The OP
4.12 was triggered mainly to prevent that any person or group of persons were affected
by acquisition of land or property to carry out reconstruction or retrofitting works or
potential temporary disturbances caused by the construction itself.

44.     Concerning social impacts in terms of land or property acquisition in other sectors
than the resettlement of families in high-risk areas, health was the only sector where such
impacts have been identified. An Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan (ARAP for less
than 200 people affected) was prepared for minor impacts in addition to the inclusion of
comprehensive information and guidance for how to prepare for and mitigate social
impacts at the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) in 2009. The fact that not a single
complaint has been filed in any of the implemented projects is evidence that a good
relationship with the affected community was maintained.

45.    Fiduciary Compliance. Although an isolated misprocurement case on the
contracting related to the retrofitting of five kindergartens was detected and addressed in
2009, no major fiduciary issues requiring Government or Bank attention emerged
throughout Project implementation, as corroborated by audit reports and procurement
post-reviews.

46.      Financial Management. Throughout the Project, stable project management was
based on SDH’s adequate experience in financial management (including accounting
records, interim financial reports or IFRs, and external audits). However, at project
closing the overall Financial Management was rated as Moderately Satisfactory due to
shortcomings in the financial management of health sub-component activities by SDS.
More precisely: (i) lack of separate accounting records or subsidiary ledger for project
activities to avoid financial information inconsistencies; (ii) payments were not processed
within the target of 28 days, affecting project implementation; and (iii) deficiencies in the
supervision of the works financed by the project and significant delays in project
implementation.

47.     On the Bank’s side, a lower-than-expected disbursement ratio is likely to have
affected the Project’s financial performance. Lack of disbursements and an early
repayment in the first four years of the Project are related to the municipality’s cash
surplus partially as a result of the issuance of a bond, an issue that was also identified in
the ISRs and the Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1) carried out in late
2008. On the Government’s side, lower disbursements in the aftermath of the global
financial crisis, not only lowered interests paid on the loan, but also reduced financial risk
related to potential currency volatility. When the right financial moment came for the
municipality to disburse all the expenditures made up to December 2010, the GoCDB
disbursed 31.9 million at once.




                                             10
48.    Procurement. The Procurement Unit at the PCU was assessed as having adequate
capacity to comply with Bank’s procurement standards and procedures. Nevertheless, the
procurement performance at project closing was rated Moderately Satisfactory as a result
of the following issues related to the health sector sub-component: i) delays in the
implementation of procurement processes; (ii) the fact that one contractor was awarded
several works, which placed at risk the achievement of targets within the agreed time
frame; and iii) weaknesses with regards to the monitoring and control of ongoing
contracts, last-minute requests, and continuous amendments and additions to the contracts.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

49.     The Project supported the establishment of a solid basis in the Capital District of
Bogota to reduce its vulnerability to natural events, by strengthening its capacity to
manage disaster risks. This Project is part of the District’s long-term program to save
lives and reduce social, economic, and financial losses resulting from adverse natural
events, including earthquakes, floods, and landslides. Although an APL3 phase will not
take place since the triggers set out in APL1’s PAD were not met,14 a focus on disaster
risk reduction would continue through regional initiatives and specific national efforts
financed by other agencies and potentially the Bank.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


50.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) remains highly relevant and is
consistent with the 2010 National Development Plan “Prosperity for All”, the District’s
Human Development Plan –in particular its DRM Program 2012-2016— and the current
World Bank’s CPS (FY2012-2016). The 2010 National Development Plan identified
Environmental and Disaster Risk Management as a crosscutting theme supporting
sustainable growth and competitiveness, equality of opportunities for social prosperity,
and consolidation of peace. The CPS recognizes Colombia as a leader in managing
disaster risk, with sophisticated institutional arrangements in place to manage disaster
risk. The CPS also identifies the need to improve knowledge and risk assessments of
territorial management. In addition, the CPS reiterates the importance of DRM to secure
sustainable growth with enhanced climate-change resilience -one of its three strategic
themes.

51.    Project design was consistent with the PDO and remains relevant to ongoing and
planned efforts to continue strengthening DRM. The Project was flexible, allowing for
adjustments to reflect emerging good practices on institutional strengthening,
implementation responsibilities and modalities, the engagement of District agencies and


14
  APL3 triggers set out in APL1’s PAD in terms of the guarantees that the national government should grant to local
authorities and the number of local authorities (i.e. minimum 3) that should take part.




                                                         11
communities, and different methodological approaches. The original focus on reducing
the vulnerability of Bogota’s population to disasters remains highly relevant and
positively contributes to the positioning of the city in contemporary regional and global
policy debates on these topics, including social accountability, disaster risk management
and climate change. However, some inconsistencies between PDO design and outcome
indicators were found. The PDO was designed to address vulnerability in Bogota by on
the one hand, strengthening its capacity to manage disaster risks, and on the other hand,
reducing vulnerability in key sectors.

52.     Project implementation contributed to the increase of the Bogota’s resilience to
adverse impact of disasters through the retrofitting and reconstruction of public assets,
resettlement of population in high-risk areas and institutional strengthening in DRM,
supported by an evolving legal and institutional framework for disaster risk management
including a set of guidelines and policies for environmental and resilient building codes.
Implementation of Project activities remained highly relevant at project closing because
of the significance of well-defined high-risk areas for the GoDCB to better target its
investments and identify potential calamities before they occur.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

53.     Project Development Objectives were achieved. PDO was to reduce vulnerability
of the Capital District of Bogota to adverse natural events by (i) strengthening its capacity
to manage disaster risk, (ii) reducing vulnerability in key sectors.

(i) Strengthening its capacity to manage disaster risks

54.     One important outcome of the Project was the better understanding and
identification of hazards and risks in Bogota. Component A on Risk Identification was
entirely financed by the District’s budget and aimed at enhancing the capacity of the
District of Bogota to identify and monitor risks in order to better target its investments
and identify potential calamities before they occur. A thorough assessment of risk for
Bogota was carried out during the project, including risks associated to hazards such as
earthquakes, landslides and flooding. As a result, the GoCDB is now able to identify risks
by type of hazard. Detailed maps were produced to better understand how different
hazards could affect unique areas of the territory. Seismic hazards were mapped using
return periods from 250 years to 2,500 years of historical events.

55.     The Project brought about new knowledge and methodologies (e.g. probabilistic
modeling) that strengthened Bogota’s understanding of risk, as well as the identification
of risk-prone areas. There is now a clear understanding that Bogota District faces seismic
threats that have historically been the result of activity in the fault lying underneath the
plains bordering the Eastern Mountain Range (Llanos Orientales). Although even before
the Project, there was a sophisticated understanding of risk by GoCDB, the Project was




                                             12
able to foster knowledge that ultimately resulted in estimations that were able to calculate
the buildings’ response spectrum15.

56.     The Project was also a vehicle to increase Bogota’s understanding of flood
dynamics and what the return period would be for particular events. Stochastic modeling
based on past events was used to develop micro-zoning maps of affected areas from 3 to
100 years. Moreover, research undertaken in connection with this Project and published
by Yamin et al (2013) was able to model changes in affected areas as a result of
mitigation works for both, 100 years of probable floods, as well as extreme events.
Yamin et al. (2013) were also able to identify landslide hazards and non-mitigable risk
areas.

57.     Not only was there a better understanding and identification of risks as a result of
the Project, it also led to a better communication to the public of such risks and to
effective preventive resettlement of population living in non-mitigable risk-prone areas
with results well above set targets. Component C on Institutional Strengthening was
largely financed with District’s resources but US$ 1.1 million from the Bank was
employed. This component aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and capacity of the
District’s administration to prepare for, respond to, and recover from significant
emergencies including training and capacity building for prevention and emergency
response, as well as the implementation of an environmental management strategy.

58.     Project implementation was effective at informing public policy in Bogota in a
number of ways. Risk mapping by type of hazard was instrumental to determine areas
that were in need of mitigation measures. Although Bogota has a long tradition of
effective urban planning and a number of initiatives have become best practices for
middle-income countries, Bogota’s 2011 Territorial Plan (Plan de Ordenamiento
Territorial – POT) was able to incorporate some of the findings of the risk-identification
process. Such an achievement is partly the result of this Project’s implementation. Some
areas were found to be special treatment zones that required mitigation, which includes
infrastructure upgrades that make buildings more resilient to hazards. Some other areas
were found to be facing non-mitigable risk and therefore the GoCDB decided to start a
relocation program for those living in areas of non-mitigable risk in a similar fashion as
this Project did. In addition, other zones subject to hazards and risks were also identified
(Yamin et al., 2013).

59.     In addition, as a result of this Project, monitoring networks and early-warning
systems became a critical part of the DRM strategy in Bogota. A hydro-meteorological
and geo-technical monitoring network was created to put in place early-warning systems
under the coordination of FOPAE. The accelerometer network was monitored to better
understand seismic hazards leading to the design and implementation of a risk-
information system that will enable systematic updates of studies and treatments.


15
  The response spectrum is calculated through the identification of maximum response values in terms of acceleration,
velocity and movement for a range of buildings with different vibration periods.




                                                         13
Earthquake-resistant design was incorporated in Bogota’s POT as a result of the General
Study on Seismic Hazard in Colombia (AIS, 2010). To address landslide and hydrologic
hazards, structural measures such as de Planes de Manejo de Cuencas (basin-management
plans), river-basin protection and drainage construction were put in place; non-structural
measures that have been put in place include river-channel maintenance and cleaning to
avoid clogging, monitoring and warning systems, emergency and contingency plans,
education and dissemination programs (Yamin et al., 2013).

(ii) Reducing vulnerability in key sectors

60.      Risk reduction was an area in which the Project also managed to exceed targets
with the notable exception of health-sector activities. Component B, on risk reduction
concentrated over 98 percent of the amount of original loan and was key to physically
reducing risk in public buildings (i.e. kindergartens, schools and hospitals). Engineering
designs, retrofitting to meet seismic standards, works to mitigate landslides, and
rebuilding of infrastructure –where retrofitting was proved to be more expensive), were
the tools by which the District was expecting to reduce risk. Project implementation was
able to, in most activities, go beyond the established targets. On education, 43 schools
were planned to be reinforced, and progress at closing showed that 38 –5 schools short
from target—providing services to 46,897 students were effectively reinforced or rebuilt.
While just over 88 percent of targeted schools were finalized, the social integration sector
in charge of kindergartens fully met targets. Twenty-nine kindergartens were reinforced
and adapted. The Project was also effective, exceeding targets by 33% on the
construction of civil works to mitigate landslide risk.

61.     Risk-reduction activities aimed at preventing disasters for population living in
high-risk areas also exceeded targets in terms of number of people living at risk. At
project inception, GoCDB had identified 600,000 inhabitants living at risk. A Mid-Term
Review found that the baseline was slightly higher at 604,000 people. The original target
was set to reduce the population at risk from 604,000 to 480,000 inhabitants. By closing,
the Project reduced the number of people living at risk beyond the target to 236,972
inhabitants. In terms of resettlement, the District Social Integration Secretariat exceeded
the original goal of relocating up to 700 families; at Project closing 1,067 families were
resettled.

62.     However, results in the health sector were much more disappointing completing
only 2 of the 18 hospitals set by the revised target. The District’s Health Secretariat had
originally planned to rebuild or reinforce 25 hospitals, but the 2009 Project restructuring
formally revised the target to 18 hospitals. The SDS managed to conclude the
construction of one hospital (Meissen Hospital) with its own sources, but unilaterally and
without officially informing the Bank, decided to take out 10 hospitals from the project to
finance those with own sources. The revised target of 8 hospitals was in line with
Bogota’s Health Master Plan and the District’s Biannual Strategic Plan. With the project
being considered for extension at a time when only one additional hospital (CAMI
Chapinero) had been completed (in this instance with Bank financing), and several more
in the midst of construction, the Bank took the decision to only continue providing



                                             14
financing to those hospitals that had the most potential for completion and had initiated
construction by December 2012. A series of milestones and associated quantitative
construction targets were established in order to define a transparent set of criteria which
would determine whether a hospital sub-project would remain eligible. Out of the 6
remaining hospitals, only 4 met the selection criteria. However, none of those 4
healthcare centers (Kennedy, Tintal, Antonio Nariño and Los Libertadores) were finished
by the time of this evaluation. With only 2 out of the 18 hospitals finished, the health
sector largely missed the goal.

63.      There is a fair question to be raised concerning the performance of the health
sector vis-à-vis other agencies. How is it that the education or the social integration
agencies were able to deliver sometimes exceeding targets ahead of time while the health
sector was not? The answer lies in two factors. On the one hand, the construction of
schools can be deemed fairly straightforward from a civil-engineering perspective, while
the same cannot be said for hospitals. The scale and complexity of this reality was only
fully understood with the incorporation of an engineer on the Bank’s team with a
specialization in large-scale civil works and the implementation of Colombia's newly
updated seismic resistance norms. On the other hand, a unique institutional barrier
specific to the health sector became evident during the course of project implementation.
The Bogota District Council’s Agreements #20 of 1990 and #19 of 1991 restructured
Bogota’s health sector. Hospitals in Bogota since 1991 operate independently from the
District Health Secretariat (SDS) under the legal construct of Empresas Sociales del
Estado (State-owned Social Enterprises). While the construction was responsibility of the
former, the latter’s prerogative is the design of such buildings. Important coordination
issues came to bear delaying extensively planned retrofitting and new construction
activities. Both issues could have been probably better addressed at the outset by the
Bank, having had a clearer understanding of the complexity of hospital construction, but
even more importantly, of the institutional and legal setting of the health sector in
Bogota.

64.      The Project was also effective at carrying out risk prevention and awareness
activities such as training with results far exceeding targets and completing tasks well in
advance of closing. Component D on Risk Prevention and Awareness which was
financed entirely with Bogota’s resources had the objective of increasing awareness at all
levels of society by providing education on risk, putting in place information campaigns,
and resettling families living in high-risk areas. In 2007, the District of Bogota had met
the target of carrying out 8 events for citizens’ exchange of experiences on risk
management and had surpassed by 39 percent the goal of training 9,500 risk prevention
and management personnel. As IDIGER’s mission was defined around these goals, the
Institute continued to carry out these activities despite having already met the goals in
2007. As a result, training in schools reached 2,174, which represents 155 percent of the
original target. These results are evidence that the project was a vehicle to institutionalize
risk prevention in Bogota. Similarly, 1,762 teachers in 73 schools (4 more than the
original target) were also trained under this component. A DRM strategy was developed
and implemented in two sectors and a third is in process of being implemented.




                                             15
Information campaigns were carried initially as part of the project, but quickly became
part of the institutional mission of FONDIGER.

65.      In addition, the District’s Environment Secretariat was effective at integrating 42
organizations (exceeding the original target) linked to prevention actions in high-risk
zones and at putting in place 4 preventive actions to improve the environment and quality
of life in high-risk areas. In addition, the original goals of protecting 40 ha and restoring
30 were exceeded to 54.4 ha and 103.2 ha respectively. The Project was very successful
in providing technical support to prepare the District’s environmental guidelines. The
Project also helped strengthen the institutional capacity to enforce environmental
regulations. The preparation of the Environmental Management Guide for the
Construction Sector in 2010, along with a set of policies including the District Rural
Policy, and the District Policy for Protected Soils, have provided the GoCDB with the
instruments to integrate procedures to prevent, mitigate, and correct environmental
impacts associated with structural retrofitting efforts and all new constructions/urban
developments in the District. These guidelines have been in many cases further adapted
by sector agencies to suit their needs, such as in the case of the District Health
Secretariat’s hospital waste management.

66.     Unfortunately, the objective of developing a risk-financing strategy to face the
fiscal impact of disasters was not achieved. Component E aimed at: (i) developing a
financial strategy to guarantee that resources needed for disaster reconstruction or
rehabilitation would be available in case of a disaster, and at (ii) facilitating the
development of a private catastrophe-insurance market. However, the project was not
able to deliver on either of these two goals. The project did not deliver a strategy to
reduce financial exposure to risks, nor did it favor the development of a market for
catastrophe insurance. By project closing, the 2 studies that would have been the basis for
developing a strategy and an insurance market had not been shared with the Bank. With
no evidence to verify that those studies complied with the terms of reference initially
prepared to hire the consultant companies, the Bank is not able to determine the quality of
such studies, nor their usefulness for the aforementioned objectives.

67.     However, the electronic versions of the studies provided to the Bank by SDH on
May 5, 2014, have the potential to determine exposure by presenting an inventory of
asset exposure and by preparing a general analysis of risk for private and public exposure
profile. Various financial coverage alternatives were identified including: (i) issuing a
single insurance policy that cover all public buildings, (ii) a proposal for collective
policies for a set of private buildings, (iii) the establishment of captive reinsurance
companies, and (iv) commercially viable catastrophe bonds. However, none of these
proposals have been taken to practice, as there is no evidence that the studies were
discussed with the rest of the administration and included in future plans. Nevertheless,
the studies allowed SDH to have solid negotiation position vis-à-vis private insurance
companies to cover main infrastructure assets in the city, as well as triggering a
continuous reflection on the best way to address financial exposure. .

3.3 Efficiency



                                             16
68.    The Project was assessed as efficient at design and ex-post results show that it
was efficient at closing only if the value of saved lives was included in the benefits flows.
The USD 80 million at Libor plus 0.5 with a maturity of 16 years including 4 of grace
showed an annual IIR of 6.14%. At closing the cash flow of the Project showed that for
more than 4 years, between 2006 and 2010, a single disbursement was made for 6.09
million on October 26th 2007. Two further disbursements on June 15th 2011 for 12.3
million and on December 11th 2012 for 7.9 took the balance of the Project at closing 38.5.
Two final disbursements made after Project closing took the balance to 63.46 million.
Taking into account both sources of funding, at appraisal the Project’s objectives were to
be achieved with US$ 145 million; however, the Project spent almost US$ 142 million
with a greater contribution from Bogota than anticipated, but with a significant reduction
in hospital completion (see Annex 1 Table b).

69.     The results of a probabilistic cost-benefit analysis based on a catastrophe risk
model by Ghesquiere, Yamin and Mahul (2006) are used in this ICR to assume a
maximum probable loss mitigation of 3.9% of the value of the assets. Overall risk-
mitigation interventions are likely to have reduced the District’s vulnerability and
potential losses. However, modeling exercises done in connection with this Project have
focused on a single hazard (earthquakes) and provide a scenario-based approach to such
seismic damages. Scenarios are offered as examples that depend on where the seism
occurs and its magnitude and are not exhaustive of the multiple scenarios that can emerge
from a combination of hazards. Precise analysis is particularly difficult in large-scale
disaster mitigation projects where costs are definitive while benefits, which are largely
derived from avoided losses, are at best probabilistic.

70.     The cost-benefit analysis carried out in this ICR has made a number of
assumptions that compensate for the lack of information on the value of the assets and the
losses that were mitigated, as well as of lack of information on demographic trends for
benefited population (i.e. resettled families, children in intervened schools). Such
assumptions range from the proportion of sector-specific total asset value that each
structure represents, to expected working life for children and parents (see Annex 3 for a
full discussion of these assumptions). One key aspect of this analysis was the value of
lives saved as a result of the works. This ICR recognizes that placing a monetary value on
life presents difficult and ethical questions. Without rejecting those claims, this ICR
simply presents a value of life that represents that of the typical contribution of a worker
in the labor market and therefore the valuation of life that is made in Annex 3 is only
partial and modest. This ICR makes two different valuations: those lives saved as a result
of reinforcing schools (i.e. children’s lives saved) and those lives saved by resettling
families that were living in non-mitigable areas of Bogota.

71.     The most salient feature of this analysis is that the Project was not efficiently
carried out if only the value of the assets is taken into account. In contrast, the Project is
considerably efficient if the avoided loss of lives is included. The Benefit-Cost ratio in
Tables A.3.1, A.3.2 and A.3.3 is lower than 1 in all scenarios if only the avoided losses in
terms of assets are included ranging in values between 0.31 and 0.62. However, if the



                                             17
value of lives saved is included it delivers ratios of at least 10 times the value of its costs.
The B-C ratio including lives saved ranges from 10.66 with a discount rate of 3% to
15.39 with discount rates of 12%.

72.     The Project also yields solid Internal Rates of Return (IRR) and sizable Net
Present Values (NPV) if the avoided loss of lives is included. IRRs range from -15.8
percent if the value of saved lives is not included, to 15.9 per cent if they are. The former
is a result that appears regardless of the discount rate and only if the value of retrofitting
for both hospitals (15 percent) and schools (60 percent) is assumed. The latter also results
regarding of the discount rate and appear when retrofitting values for both schools and
hospitals are at their lowest: 30 and 8 percent respectively.

73.     As can be expected, NPV is negative for scenarios not including the value of
saved lives. NPV without estimates for saved lives, go from -14.63 million dollars, to as
much as 36.34 million dollars. The former is a scenario (see Table A.3.3) when the
maximum discount rate of 12% and minimum retrofitting values are assumed (8 percent
for hospitals and 30 percent for schools). The latter is a scenario with the lowest discount
rate (see table A.3.1) and maximum assumed retrofitting values of 15 percent for
hospitals and 60 percent for schools. However, if the value of saved lives is included in
our estimates, NPVs are solid and positive. The smallest NPV can be found with the
highest discount rate (12 percent) and maximum retrofitting values (15 and 60 percent for
hospitals and schools respectively) in Table A.3.3. If a lower discount rate of 3% and
minimum values of retrofitting are assumed (8 and 30 percent for hospitals and schools
respectively) NPV can be as high as 327 million dollars.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.      The Project is rated as moderately satisfactory in light of the PDO being achieved
and the vast majority of the Project components not only met, but in many cases,
exceeded established targets. The multiple successes of the Project are deemed to have
compensated for other shortcomings such as those related to the health sector and the
objective of reducing fiscal vulnerability. The Project is highly relevant for the country
and it represents one of the more innovative experiences in addressing urban risk
reduction through a multi-faceted approach. The objective of having more resilient
infrastructure in the education (schools) and social integration sectors (kindergartens),
have arguably made of Bogota, a global reference. The efforts by the Caja de Vivienda
Popular to mitigate risk for those living in areas subject to landslide risks exceeded
targets, and institutional capacity was built in the process with the principles and
guidelines adopted under the Project now being applied to other resettlement processes.
The institutional arrangements that emerged as a result of the environmental management
system put in place have had city-wide impacts well beyond the Project. However,
activities in the health subcomponent, which represented nearly half of the resources
committed by the Bank to this Project, were not fully achieved. In spite of the two
extensions that were required, the hospitals and health-care centers by and large were not



                                              18
completed. In addition, the important objective of reducing fiscal vulnerability and
promoting the establishment of private catastrophe insurance were not achieved.
However, those missed targets were compensated by overachievements on other
indicators. The legal and institutional framework is clearer and more consolidated, and
the growing reach of SPDAE is fully operational.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

75.      Poverty Impacts and Social Development. Since poor and socially vulnerable
groups tend to live in high-risk areas, the Project was expected to have a major beneficial
impact on that population group. The Project supported the resettlement of households
living in the hazard-prone areas identified by the comprehensive municipal risk-
mitigation plan. In addition, the Project improved disaster resiliency in public buildings
(i.e. hospitals, schools and kindergartens), through retrofitting and reconstruction of
facilities, which directly had an impact on the safety, quality and continuity of public
services pre and post disasters.

76.     Gender Aspects. The resettlement was carried out minimizing the disruption of
the livelihood of people living in the high-risk areas, and ensuring that displaced people
were treated equitably, as evidenced in the 2009 Restructuring Safeguard Note. A
detailed analysis was carried out covering gender, ethnicity, income and other socio-
economic factors, in order to determine the risks and design preventive measures to
minimize them. Measures to minimize gender disparities embedded in social practices
and traditions were put in place to reduce women’s vulnerability to violence and stress
during the resettlement, as well as to avoid the breakdown of community and social
networks –important support systems in times of crisis— affecting women more than
men. In addition, under the Project’s activities to reduce underlying socio-environmental
risks, a series of dissemination activities were carried out targeting families, mostly
women. Such activities helped build a risk prevention culture and were effective at
empowering the community as the first line of protection of the environment, and in the
prevention of illegal occupation of non-mitigated risk areas. To that end, environment
and risk management training was essential.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

77.      As noted in Section 3.2, the Project has significantly strengthened the institutional
framework for disaster risk management and improved inter-institutional coordination.
As evidenced by several Project indicators (Annex 2), the overall impacts of the
institutional changes are already visible in the improved efficiency SPDAE.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Stakeholder Workshop

78.    In April 2014, representatives of governmental agencies directly involved with
the project implementation were interviewed for firsthand views on the Project’s results



                                             19
and impact. During the same month additional input was sought during a stakeholder
workshop involving both the Bank and GoCDB representatives. Please refer to Annex 6
for main findings and commentary.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

79.      Risk to development outcome is rated as moderate considering that the GoCDB
has a clear vision and is implementing a long-term plan for vulnerability reduction. As
part of this program, the District continues to invest in the consolidation of policies and
its institutional framework, and in the modernization and integration of assessment in its
development planning. There are several factors contributing to the overall sustainability
of project outcomes: (i) the commitment to the project objectives through the large
counterpart contribution to the Project (45 percent of the total investments) and the work
on comprehensive disaster preparedness financed with the Government’s own resources;
(ii) institutional sustainability and ownership from the participating agencies, where the
Program is strongly anchored in the long-term objectives of the SDH for vulnerability
reduction; and (iii) technical sustainability and maintenance of retrofitted assets after
project implementation following normal procedures used by the District. There are
nevertheless several potential internal and external risks:

80.     Internal risks. Potential internal risks include degradation and underutilization of
risk information and sensitization programs. Although it is unlikely that the information
will become obsolete in the short term, risk information could be outdated if it is not
regularly maintained. Risk sensitization programs, funding and turnover of personnel in
DRM-related agencies can therefore take a toll on risk and vulnerability reduction
programs. It is encouraging though that going forward, there seems to be a strong
emphasis on capacity building and increased coordination among agencies through
SPDAE in the District’s long-term program for vulnerability reduction.

81.     External risks. There are also several external risks related to the country’s
growing disaster vulnerability and the magnitude of DRM challenges. Although close
attention was given to the design of the hydro-meteorological system for the District, it is
not possible to guarantee that it will not be damaged by a major catastrophic event.
Environmental degradation and the substantial and increasing number of population
living in high-risk locations could overwhelm the impacts of the Project’s mitigation
investments. If adequately enforced, preventive planning will continue to contribute to
mitigate these issues in the future. In particular, voluntary relocation to safer places and
minimizing resettlement of freed up high-risk locations represent a major social and
economic challenge.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                            20
82.      This rating is based on the close collaboration between Bank and Borrower during
project preparation, the relevance of the Project to both, the Government and the Bank, as
well as a project design with an integral approach to development in mind enhancing its
impact in a context of institutional capacity building. The Project’s design reflected a
pioneering effort at the time and responded adequately to client needs. Given the intricate
challenge to reduce the District’s vulnerability at the same time that the institutional
underpinnings for disaster management were being strengthened, communication among
agencies understandably faced obstacles. Although these obstacles may have affected the
initial implementation period, they did not affect long-run project outcomes. However,
project design overlooked a critical legal and institutional obstacle to coordination in the
health sector by not taking into account the implications of administrative
decentralization mandated by Law in 1991. In addition, M&E framework failed to
include indicators that allowed for an effective progress monitoring. This rating also rests
upon unrealistic targets and lack of readiness (i.e. absence of pre-feasibility studies).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

83.      The ICR rating recognizes that in general supervision missions were timely and
solution-oriented, that there was a Mid-term Review that resulted in effective decisions
and agreements (through a major project restructuring), and that critical issues affecting
project implementation were adequately handled. Procurement and financial management
were also well supervised. Supervision of safeguards was necessary due to unwillingness
by some families to resettle as identified by the TTL and reported by the Quality
Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1). Supervision was adequately conducted and
no negative social or environmental impacts were at project closing identified as a result
of project activities. The Bank’s team made a significant effort to compensate for design
flaws in terms of the challenges faced in the health sector and on the M&E framework, as
well as to improve the disbursement ratio in the context of borrower’s excess liquidity
(see Annex 2 Table 2 for a supervision timeline).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

84.     Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was rated as moderately
satisfactory while supervision was deemed as satisfactory; thus, overall Bank
performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

85.     Government performance is rated satisfactory considering its sustained
commitment to PDO achievement, including especially the concerted effort to reduce the
District’s vulnerability to disasters while strengthening key agencies and the SPDAE.



                                            21
Although at times, the Project experienced delays due to personnel turnover and
implementation arrangements limited by legal institutional framework, the priority given
by the Government, consistently providing an enabling environment for project
implementation, facilitated resolution to critical constraints.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

86.      The overall satisfactory rating considers the different performance levels of the
various agencies that were responsible for implementing project activities. Delays in loan
effectiveness led the District to proactively implement activities using their own funds to
speed up project implementation. In the intermediate phase of the Project (2009 Project
restructuring), with a greater stability in terms of personnel turnover and commitment
from the GoCDB, the Project’s experienced an increase of its implementation pace and
performance achieving most of the PDO’s established. Nevertheless, management and
institutional coordination shortcomings prevented the timely delivery of health
subcomponent products and activities according to original schedule. In its final phase, a
series of restructurings were needed to extend the Project’s closing date and revisit health
subcomponent targets in order to meet Credit Agreement commitments.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

87.   Government performance and outcome of PDO are rated as satisfactory and the
Implementing Agency performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. Thus, overall
Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Design lessons

88.     Development of monitoring and evaluation systems and sound economic
analysis for DRM Projects is critical not only to measure results but also to draw well-
grounded lessons. Although the importance of prevention and mitigation is broadly
recognized today, there is still a need to have good evaluations of DRM efforts to ensure
their prioritization in a context of budget constraints and competing priorities. Evaluation
is even more critical in projects such as the one assessed in this ICR that include
innovative approaches and financing for mitigation. Having specific indicators on
estimated average annual loss, financial/insurance coverage of public and private assets,
quality of training and integration of knowledge in beneficiaries’ daily activities, and
gender participation and inclusion will greatly benefit project evaluation. Identification of
good practices will strengthen results of future efforts, while economic analysis of
mitigation investments will help show the “business-sense” of such investments.

89.   Targets should be established realistically in terms of institutional and local
market conditions, considering local development plans and policy framework for



                                             22
implementation. Therefore pre-feasibility studies and designs readily available at project
approval or early implementation with clear financial costs are paramount; particularly to
ensure effective coordination with all public agencies responsible for granting building
permits, as well as utility companies to avoid delays in the execution of civil works.
Future projects should also invest in a thorough understanding of sector-specific legal and
institutional arrangements that may become a challenge for implementation.

90.     Challenges implementing risk reduction in Health sector. The risk reduction
program in the heath sector was arguably the most challenging subcomponent of the
Project. Functional and nonstructural risk-reduction measures for the heath sector imply
shifting equipment and patients around the city and may impinge on the access to health
care by entire neighborhoods while construction works take place. Future projects
involving retrofitting or reconstruction of hospitals should take into account sensitive
situations in which the spread of disease or the worsening of medical conditions by
current patients may arise as a result of such movement and exposure to medical waste.

Implementation lessons

91.    The establishment or consolidation of a technical project unit responsible for
project activities in each implementing agency could facilitate the implementation of
civil works by: (i) ensuring its completion to satisfaction; (ii) better coordinating with
permit-granting agencies and utilities companies to avoid unnecessary delays; (iii)
improving the internal management, governance, and transparency; and (iv) facilitating
the supervision, monitoring and evaluation by the overall Project coordinating agency to
avoid pitfalls.

DRM lessons

92.     Investing in vulnerability reduction pays off in the long term, especially if
coupled with flexibility and responsiveness to city needs and conditions. The Project
represents an excellent example of the importance of investing in DRM. During the
Project’s life, responsiveness and flexibility allowed modifying implementation
arrangements to reflect the evolving legal and institutional framework, and enhance
project impact. The Project already had visible impacts that have likely helped to reduce
loss of life and property, particularly among the poor.

93.      DRM capacity building contributes to ownership and sustainability of results.
In the past, communities were often not included in the decisions and processes that
affected their lives, which made ensuring operation and maintenance of investments and
sustainability of technical capacity, one of the main constrains of DRM projects. The
Project is a good example of the benefits of engaging social actors actively throughout
the whole cycle of resettlement and risk reduction activities. The Project also shows the
importance of investing in capacity building at the community level. Overall, through a
participatory approach, the Project has left a more educated and engaged civil society,
which is more likely to demand attention to DRM issues despite government changes and
staff turnover.



                                            23
94.     Retrofitting vs. rebuilding. The Project is a valuable experience for other DRM
projects to consider including reconstruction/new building construction as a cost-
effective alternative. In this Project, considering only retrofitting led to the
underestimation of costs at the outset. It can be argued that it was also a factor in the
delayed implementation and cost overruns that led to the first restructuring.

95.   Resettlement program and guidelines should be carefully crafted to effectively
“depopulate” high-risk areas and prevent further occupation.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower

96.     On July 11th 2014, the Borrower through the SDH sent comments to the draft
version of this ICR which are presented in Annex 7. The final version of this ICR reflects
the updated figures on disbursements sent by the Borrower, as well as precisions made
regarding the municipality’s cash surplus and the distinction between hospitals and
clinics. In addition, the Borrower suggested that the Mid-Term Review could be used as
an opportunity to reformulate the Project and reassign resources as needed to make the
implementation process more flexible

97.       According to the Borrower, additional lessons learned include:

         To appoint a person responsible for the project in each implementing agency.
         Implementing agencies need to be more rigorous in archiving documents related
          to the Project.
         Implementing agencies need also to be more rigorous in the hiring process of a
          service provider, particularly when it comes to their real technical and financial
          capacities.
         Contracts for construction works should be properly supported by documents that
          prove a solid planning process has been undertaken prior to the start of the works.
         Construction supervision activities should be paid by the progress made and not
          by the time spent in construction.




                                              24
                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                         Percentage of
                                Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD
        Components                                                       Appraisal (%)
                                    millions)            millions)
                                Bank      Borrow.    Bank      Borrow.   Bank    Borrow.
 Component A                      0         4.4        0          6.1      -      138.6
 Component B                    78.6       25.6      62.09       32.8     78.9    128.1
 Component C                    1.04        6.5       1.08       14.5    103.8    223.1
 Component D                      0        20.9        0         30.2      -      144.5
 Component E                    0.38       0.17       0.28         0      73.7      0
         Total Project Costs     80        57.7      63.46      83.65     79.3    128.9
 Front-end fee IBRD
 Contigencies                     -          7.3
  Total Financing Required       80          65


(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                               Type of Co-                                   Percentage of
     Source of Funds                             Estimate        Estimate
                                financing                                     Appraisal
                                               (USD millions) (USD millions)
IBRD                                               80.00           63.46          79.3
Borrower                                           65.00           83.65         131.4
Total                                             145.00          157.11         108.3




                                             25
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The Project Development Objective was to reduce vulnerability of the Capital District of
Bogota (GoDCB) to adverse natural events by (i) strengthening its capacity to manage
disaster risk, (ii) reducing vulnerability in key sectors.

The Project implementation contributed to increasing Bogota’s resilience to adverse
impact of disasters through the retrofitting and reconstruction of public assets,
resettlement of population in high-risk areas and institutional strengthening in DRM,
supported by an evolving legal and institutional DRM framework, including a set of
guidelines and policy for environmental and disaster-resistant building codes. Project
implementation remained highly relevant at project closing because of the significance of
well-defined risk-prone areas for the GoDCB to better target its investments and identify
potential calamities before they occur.

The Project effectively reduced the population at risk from 604,000 to 236,972 through a
series of activities detailed below. Although baselines and targets were not set for the
reduction in the estimated average annual loss in the PAD, a series of retrofitting works
were carried out in schools, kindergartens, and landslides/flooding prevention, as well as
risk assessment studies, improvements in hazard monitoring, development of an
Environmental Strategy for Construction and Retrofitting, and resettlements that overall
contributed to reduce the district vulnerability and potential loss.

                  Table 1 – Project Development Objectives Indicators

        Indicator            Baseline                 Target               Result
 Reduction in                                   480,000 less people
 identified population       604,000            living in risk prone       236,972
 at risk                                                areas
 Reduction in
 estimated average             N/A                     N/A                   N/A
 annual loss


Component A: Risk Identification

This component aimed at improving the capacity and knowledge of the District of Bogota
to identify and monitor the different hazards the city in order to better target its
investments and identify potential calamities before they occur. Hazard mapping,
vulnerability, and risk analysis of the Central District were undertaken for critical
buildings, and hazard-monitoring systems installed in strategic areas. Key institutions
involved in implementation were DPAE and the Departamento de Bienestar Social
(Department of Social Welfare, DABS). The DPAE was in charge of designing
methodologies and procedures for the maintenance and operation of monitoring systems,
which are updated to the latest standards and techniques, which are also appropriate to
Bogota’s unique environment. Accordingly, the component included the following sub-


                                           26
components: A.1 Risk Identification and A.2 Risk Monitoring.

A. 1.1. Risk Assessments for the District
A. 1.2. Risk Assessment and Designs for Retrofitting of Buildings
A. 1.3. Health Territorial System and Studies for Emergency Public Hospital Network
A. 2.1. Hazard Monitoring in the District

Subcomponent A.1 Risk Identification. Fifty-seven studies were carried out by DPAE in
the second semester of 2008 for hazard identification covering floods, landslides,
earthquakes, vulnerability assessments (housing and public buildings), and risk
management (probability of loss of life when vulnerability is not addressed). These
studies provided a foundation for the DPAE to promote stronger, safer physical
development. DABS carried out 40 seismic vulnerability and structural retrofitting
studies. Results of these studies were used to prioritize mitigation works under
Component B. In addition, twenty-nine studies to reduce the seismic vulnerability of
kindergartens were carried out by SDIS in 2010.

Subcomponent A.2 Risk Monitoring. This subcomponent supported the capacity of DPAE
to evaluate zoning risks and carry out seismic vulnerability studies. The networks of
accelerographs and hydrometeorologic monitoring were extended to monitor
geotechnical and landslide risks, following the latest Bogota micro-zoning study. The
subcomponent also carried out in 2008 three studies aimed at increasing the
understanding of risk in three areas of the District (Alto de la Estancia, Montebello, and
Zona Norte).


                                 Table 2 – Component A Indicators

 Subcomponent               Baseline                      Target                            Result
                                                                                 Target achieved (100%)
                                                  57 Risk Assessment             57 studies to evaluate
                                                 Studies for the District        landslides hazard, risk and
                                                                                 vulnerability carried out
                                                                                 Target achieved (100%)
                                                29 Risk Assessment and
 A.1 Risk                                                                        29 studies to reduce the
                             900 ha             Designs for Retrofitting
 Identification                                                                  seismic vulnerability of
                                                     of Buildings16
                                                                                 kindergartens carried out
                                               Health Territorial System         Target achieved (100%)
                                                  and Studies for 18             8 studies and retrofitting
                                                  Emergency Public               designs to reduce the
                                                  Hospital Network               seismic vulnerability of



16
   This target was reduced from 40 to accommodate the reduction of targets at Component B.2.1 during the 2009
Project restructuring




                                                        27
                                                                hospitals prepared.
                   Accelerographs                               Target achieved (100%)
                     and hydro-                                 3 networks extended to
                   meteorological                               monitor geotechnical and
                    monitoring                                  landslide risks and
 A.2 Risk             networks       Hazard Monitoring in the   operational
 Monitoring                                  District           Target achieved (100%)
                                                                3 risk assessments studies
                   Bogota micro-
                                                                (Alto de la Estancia,
                   zoning study
                                                                Montebello, and Zona
                                                                Norte)


Component B: Risk Reduction

This component was designed as complement to the city government’s risk reduction
efforts. From the outset, it was a critical component to mitigate risk by reinforcing
premises and lifeline infrastructure in the event of a disaster, in particular by supporting
the implementation of nonstructural and functional mitigation measures for service to
continue during and after emergencies. Activities under this component included the
development of engineering designs and retrofitting of construction works for public
buildings to meet the latest seismic standards, and small mitigation works to mitigate
landslides.

Under this component, the Project financed risk-mitigation measures. These interventions
were structural, nonstructural, and functional. Structural mitigations comprised basic
reinforcements to existing buildings, while nonstructural interventions consisted of
vulnerable population’s resettlement. Finally, functional mitigation involved the
protection of people and assets, so that they remained functional during and immediately
after an emergency (which involved such tasks as contingency planning, business
continuity planning, emergency access, and equipment safeguarding). These measures
aimed at ensuring that any damage resulting from an adverse event was limited enough to
preclude evacuation of vital buildings such as hospitals, while understanding that the
disruption of some non-crucial functions may be unavoidable.

Subcomponent B.1 Seismic Mitigation Education Sector
Subcomponent B.2 Seismic Mitigation Welfare Sector
Subcomponent B.3 Seismic Mitigation Health Sector
Subcomponent B.4 Landslide and Flood Mitigation


Subcomponent B.1 Seismic Mitigation in the Education Sector. This subcomponent was
proposed to retrofit the educational facilities/physical infrastructure, some of which were
more than 40 years old and did not follow the latest seismic-resistant norms. A
preliminary study assessed the 2,614 educational premises and established that 70.5
percent were not vulnerable, whereas the other 29.5 percent presented a high or very high
risk. From the study and subsequent diagnosis of educational infrastructure, priority


                                            28
buildings were selected, taking into account their vulnerability index, the student
population involved, and land tenure. The target was over-estimated given the structural
needs and available budget. Targets were adjusted in 2009 Project’s restructuring from
140 to 42. As a result, 38 educational buildings were retrofitted to comply with the most
recent building codes benefiting 46,897 students.

Subcomponent B.2 Seismic Mitigation in the Welfare Sector. This subcomponent was
proposed to retrofit infrastructure in the welfare sector, under the responsibility of DABS.
This target was adjusted in 2009 Project’s restructuring form 40 to 29 centers, and
physical rehabilitation was carried out in kindergartens and daycare centers. It also
included the design and implementation of a preventive maintenance plan for the
remaining infrastructure.

Subcomponent B.3 Seismic Mitigation in the Health Sector. This subcomponent was
proposed to focus on retrofitting 25 hospitals and health-care centers, and on the
relocation of seven more (Table 1). Most of these buildings were never updated to the
latest seismic norms and many of the facilities were in need of major rehabilitation if they
were to accommodate the needs of the population during and after emergencies and
disasters. Functional mitigation for seismic risk was also financed under this
subcomponent. This intervention consisted of implementing necessary measures for the
continuous functioning of hospitals during earthquakes, nevertheless, a series of
limitations in contract management, institutional arrangements, and recurrent delays in
construction contributed for the underperformance of this indicator where only 2
hospitals were effectively intervened out of the revised target of 18. Table 2 presents a
detailed timeline of the evolution of the efforts made by the Bank and Project
Coordination teams to address shortcomings on hospitals retrofitting.

                  Table 1. List of health centers selected for retrofitting

                                                                                        Population
#                    Health Center                           Location       Funding
                                                                                          served
1    Ced Darío Echandía Sede A                        Kennedy              World Bank         1.174
2    Ced Rafael Bernal Jiménez Sede B Gloria Gaitán   Barrios Unidos       World Bank           473
3    Ced República de Panamá                          Barrios Unidos       World Bank           291
4    Ced Francisco de Paula Santander                 Antonio Nariño       World Bank         1.028
5    Ced Juan del Corral                              Engativá             World Bank           673
6    Ced Florida Blanca                               Engativá             World Bank         1.230
7    Ced El Rodeo Sede A                              San Cristobal        World Bank         1.238
8    Ced Suramericana Sede B                          San Cristobal        World Bank           654
9    Ced John F. Kennedy Sede A                       Kennedy              World Bank         2.440
10   Ced Gustavo Restrepo Sede A                      Rafael Uribe Uribe   World Bank         1.905
11   Ced Unión Europea Sede A                         Ciudad Bolivar       World Bank         1.931
12   Ced Acacias II Sede A                            Ciudad Bolivar       World Bank         1.941
13   Ced Manuela Ayala Sede A                         Engativa             World Bank         1.640
14   Ced Grancolombiano Sede A                        Bosa                 World Bank         1.980
15   Ced Gustavo Morales Sede A                       Suba                 World Bank         1.861
     Ced Fernando Mazuera Villegas Sede B Gonzalo
16                                                    Bosa                 World Bank          513
     Jiménez de Quesada
17   Ced Nidia Quintero de Turbay                     Engativa             World Bank        1.694



                                                29
                                                                                              Population
#                     Health Center                           Location          Funding
                                                                                                served
18    Ced Anibal Fernández de Soto                     Suba                    World Bank           1.293
19    Ced Piloto Bavaria Sede A                        Usaquen                 World Bank             951
20    Ced San José de Castilla                         Kennedy                 World Bank           1.400
21    Ced Carlos Albán Holguín                         Bosa                    Municipality         5.656
22    Ced San Cristobal Sur Sede B José A Morales      San Cristobal           Municipality           744
23    Ced República de Panamá Sede B Av. Chile         Barrios Unidos          Municipality           269
      Ced Marco Tulio Fernández Sede B Mercedes de
24                                                     Engativa                Municipality          255
      Fernández
25    Ced Nuevo Chile Sede A                           Bosa                    Municipality         2.938
      Ced Alfonso López Pumarejo Sede B Agoberto
26                                                     Kennedy                 Municipality          574
      Mejía
      Ced Francisco José de Caldas Sede D Dámaso
27                                                     Engativa                Municipality          507
      Zapata
28    Ced Clemencia de Caicedo Sede A                  Engativa                Municipality          493
29    Ced Jorge Gaitán Cortés Sede A                   Engativa                Municipality          383
      Ced Luis López de Mesa Sede C Granjas de San
30                                                     Rafael Uribe Uribe      Municipality          643
      Pablo
31    Ced Nuestra Señora del Carmen                    Tunjuelito         Municipality               787
32    Ced Juan Rey Sede A                              San Cristobal      Municipality               645
33    Ced El Cortijo Vianey Sede B                     Usme               Municipality               636
34    Ced Alfredo Iriarte Sede C La Merced Sur         Rafael Uribe Uribe Municipality               328
35    Ced Pablo De Tarso                               Bosa               Municipality             3.145
36    Ced Hunza Sede A - La Aguadita                   Suba               Municipality               555
37    Ced Unión Colombia Sede A Piloto de Aplicación   Usaquen            Municipality             1.045
38    Ced Nueva Esperanza                              Usme               Municipality               984
                                                           Total Population Served                46.897




Table 2. Timeline of Bank and Project Coordination team interventions to address
                      shortcomings on hospitals retrofitting

                Disbursement                                        Action
    Period
                    (Millions)                Bank                           Project Coordination
                                    Close supervision                    Implementation with own
2006-2008          US$6.09          MTR                                   funds
                                    QUALP                                Early achievement of targets
                                                                          Implementation with own
                                    Close supervision                     funds
2009-2010      No disbursement
                                    1st Project Restructuring            Begin implementation of
                                                                           Health Sector activities
                                      Close supervision
                                                                          Implementation with own
                                      2nd Project Restructuring
                                                                           funds
               US$31.85 (2011)        3rd Project Restructuring
2011-2014                                                                 Set up of special task force
               US$20.21 (2012)        Hiring of health engineer
                                                                           for speed up health sector
                                       to provide close technical          activities implementation
                                       assistance




                                                 30
Subcomponent B.4 Landslide and Flood Mitigation. This component involved small
mitigation works such as the construction or erection of retaining walls or gabions,
drainage systems, anchorages, and nets to protect the population from landslides, falling
rocks, and mudslides. These small works were implemented by FOPAE, and represented
the completion of 28 risk-mitigation works.



                                    Table 3 – Component B Indicators

 Subcomponent                 Baseline                       Target                              Result
 B.1 Seismic                                                                         Partially achieved (88%)
                                                   Retrofit 40 educational
 Mitigation in the        140 educational                                            38 educational
                                                     facilities/physical
 Education                   facilities                                              facilities/physical
                                                       infrastructure
 Sector                                                                              infrastructure retrofitted
 B.2 Seismic                                                                         Target achieved (100%)
                                                  Retrofit 29 infrastructures
 Mitigation in the          40 facilities                                            29 infrastructures in the
                                                    in the welfare sector
 Welfare Sector                                                                      welfare sector retrofitted
 B.3 Seismic                                       Retrofitting 8 hospitals          Target not met (25%)
 Mitigation in the                                  and health centers17             2 hospitals were retrofitted
 Health Sector                                                                       Target not met (0%)
                                                   Relocation of 7 health-
                                                                                     No health center was
                                                        care centers
                                                                                     relocated
                            25 hospitals
                                                  Functional mitigation for          Target not met (25%)
                                                     seismic risk for the            2 hospitals were retrofitted
                                                  continuous functioning of          and functional mitigation
                                                       hospitals during              carried out for these units.
                                                         earthquakes
 B.4 Landslide                                     Construction or erection          Target surpassed (133%)
 and Flood                                           of 21 civil works to            28 retaining walls or
 Mitigation                      N/D                protect the population           gabions, drainage systems,
                                                   from landslides, falling          anchorages, and nets were
                                                    rocks, and mudslides             constructed.


Component C: Institutional Strengthening

This component aimed to enhance the effectiveness and capacity of the District
Administration to prepare for, respond to, and recover from significant emergencies. The
component also supported the District's capacity building, particularly to implement the
Project. Activities financed under this component included training of participating


17
  The original target of 25 was revised to 18 hospitals during the 2009 Project Restructuring. At the 2012 Project
Restructuring the target was further reduced to 7 hospitals to be retrofitted with credit proceeds. The hospital Messien
was retrofitted with Borrower’s resources resetting the target to 8 hospitals.




                                                           31
agencies’ staff in safeguard, fiduciary, and technical aspects of the Project, capacity
building for Prevention and Emergency Response, and the implementation of an
environmental management strategy to strengthen the District’s public works compliance
with environmental requirements.

This component financed operational and administrative capacity building within the
implementing institutions, including the DPAE and UCP. The technical side of the
project included institutions under SDPAE that implemented institutional commitments
to incorporate risk prevention, mitigation, and rehabilitation.

C.1.1 Project Administration
C.2.1. Modernization of Bogota’s Fire Brigade
C.2.2. Environmental Strategy for Construction and Retrofitting
C.2.3. District Integrated Policy for Resettlement
C.2.4. Strengthening of the SDPAE

Subcomponent C.1 Project Administration. This component supported the UCP to ensure
effective project implementation, including training, consulting services, office supplies,
and equipment. Attention was directed towards secondary agencies participating in the
Project, and will improve the agency’s ability to respond to citizens’ demands, such as
training the government secretariat charged with oversight of firefighters.

Subcomponent C.2 Capacity Building. This subcomponent included training for the
agencies part of the District’s System for Prevention and Emergency Response (SDPAE)
to carry out their mandate and enhance their capacity in the area of disaster prevention,
response, and rehabilitation. Institutional strengthening for the SDPAE was provided by
the Directorate for Prevention and Emergency Response (DPAE) to further strengthen
their role in providing such support. Tools and training were provided to enable the
agency to improve its decision-making processes in the fields of disaster prevention,
response, and rehabilitation.

The subcomponent also included construction, equipment procurement, and training for
two fire stations in the District. These stations were selected after a study under the
Master Plan of Security and Justice, which analyzed the current District Fire Brigade's
capacity to meet city demand. Given the constant industrial, commercial, and
technological growth, coupled with accelerated urbanization, the District Fire Brigade has
developed a strategy to meet the challenge. The strategy includes specialized training,
equipment, fire-station reinforcement and upgrading, and strategic placement of new fire
stations.

This subcomponent also comprised the development and implementation of an
environmental management strategy aimed at strengthening compliance with public
works requirements in the District. The activities involved a participatory process to
upgrade the environmental guidelines, strengthening the District's environmental agency,
and creating the conditions enabling the development of environmental auditors.




                                            32
                          Table 4 – Component C Indicators

 Subcomponent         Baseline                 Target                          Result
 C.1.1 Project                         Improve the agency’s        Target achieved (100%)
 Administration                         ability to respond to      Training the government
                        N/A
                                         citizens’ demands         secretariat charged with
                                                                   oversight of firefighters
                                                                   Target achieved (100%)
                                                                   2 fire stations in the District
                                                                   were constructed and
                    Master Plan of
                                                                   equipped
 C.2.1.              Security and
                                     Construction, equipment       Target achieved (100%)
 Modernization      Justice, which
                                     procurement, and training     2 training programs were
 of Bogota's Fire    analyzed the
                                      for 2 fire stations in the   carried out to firefighters
 Brigade             District Fire
                                               District            Target achieved (100%)
                      Brigade’s
                                                                   A new Crisis Center and
                       capacity
                                                                   Firefighter Central
                                                                   Command was built and
                                                                   equipped
                                                                   Target achieved (100%)
                                         Development and           An Environmental
                                       implementation of an        Guideline for Construction
 C.2.2.
                                          environmental            and Retrofitting for the
 Environmental
                                       management strategy         District was prepared
 Strategy for             0
                                      aimed at strengthening       Target achieved (100%)
 Construction
                                      compliance with public       A dissemination workshop
 and Retrofitting
                                     works requirements in the     to introduce the
                                             District              Environmental Guideline
                                                                   was carried out
                                         Adaptation of the         Target achieved (100%)
 C.2.3. District
                                     National Integrated Policy    The CVP has incorporated
 Integrated
                                        for Resettlement to        the National Integrated
 Policy for               0
                                       District resettlements      Policy for Resettlement into
 Resettlement
                                                                   District resettlements was
                                                                   carried out
                                                                   Target achieved (100%)
                                                                   Tools and training to
                                      Training for agencies of
 C.2.4.                                                            improve agency’s decision
                                       the SDPAE in disaster
 Strengthening of                                                  making abilities for disaster
                                     prevention, response, and
 the SDPAE                                                         prevention, response, and
                                            rehabilitation
                                                                   rehabilitation were
                                                                   provided


Component D: Risk Prevention and Awareness

The objective of this component was to increase awareness at all levels of society, and in



                                            33
particular, at the community level in order to convey the importance of risk mitigation
and disaster preparedness. Activities carried out under this component included risk
education, information campaign, and resettlement of approximately 1,000 families living
in high-risk areas.

This component secured continuity to training and information programs while providing
information to communities and specific agencies on prevention, disaster response, and
rehabilitation. The component collaborated to improve community participation and civil
defense in comprehensive local risk management. In addition, contributed to broad
information campaigns on risk management and emergency response. The implementing
agencies for this component were FOPAE, the Secretariat of Education, and Caja de
Vivienda Popular (CVP).


D. 1.1. Development of Education Strategy for Hazard Risk Management
D. 1.2. Strengthening of Educational Institutions for Prevention and Mitigation
D.2 Risk Communication
D.3 Socio-environmental Actions for Risk Reduction
D.4.1. Resettlement of Families in Risk-Prone Areas
D.4.2. Prevention and Implementation of Measures to Prohibit New Illegal Settlements


Subcomponent D.1 Risk Education. A strategy was developed to introduce risk
management into educational programs, including the training of professionals in the
education sector. This included designing curricula on disaster management, which were
introduced at various levels of the educational system. The subcomponent also supported
research grants on risk management.

In addition, the subcomponent financed the preparation of an emergency-response
training plan for approximately 2,000 teachers in Bogota. Training was provided to 250
educational institutions to promote a wider awareness of the need for prevention.

Subcomponent D.2 Risk Communication. The Project financed the design and
implementation of a multifaceted information campaign for the general public, using
mass media. This subcomponent, supported by the Secretariat of Government and
FOPAE, promoted large-scale public campaigns on risk management and information on
emergency response.

Subcomponent D.3 Socio-environmental Action for Risk Reduction. Using DAMA to
galvanize social networks, linking over 40 organizations engaged in environmental
awareness, to encourage and coordinate prevention activities in hazard-prone areas. The
subcomponent also financed the administration of protected land through community
participation schemes.

Subcomponent D.4 Integrated Resettlements. About 6,000 families have been identified
as living in areas subject to landslides, most of which are likely to be relocated. Specially



                                             34
designed areas that include infrastructure, social facilities, and income-generating
activities were prepared in advance in which families were relocated or resettled. More
than 1,000 households have been resettled to safer locations with secure housing tenure.
The FOPAE has developed a strategy to ensure that the previously occupied high-risk
areas remain closed to future human settlements. Specific activities to select households
for resettlement involved the identification of physical, legal, social, and economic status
of the population. The Caja de Vivienda, which has been involved in resettlement under
previous Bank-assisted projects, managed the implementation of this component.


                           Table 5 – Component D Indicators

 Subcomponent         Baseline                Target                        Result
                                                                 Target achieved (100%)
                                                                 3 Strategies to introduce
                                                                 risk management prepared
                                                                 Target achieved (100%)
                                      Strategy to introduce risk
                                                                 Curricula on DRM
                                           management into
                                                                 designed and introduced in
                                        educational programs,
                         N/A                                     the educational system
                                      including the training of
 D.1 Risk                                                        Target achieved (100%)
                                         professionals in the
 Education                                                       2,066 teachers in 250
                                           education sector
                                                                 educational institutions
                                                                 trained to promote a wider
                                                                 awareness of the need for
                                                                 prevention
                                                                 Target not met (0%)
                                       Support research grants
                         N/A                                     No risk-management grants
                                         on risk management
                                                                 were reported
                                                                 Target achieved (100%)
                                                                 100 large-scale public
                                          Implementation of
 D.2 Risk                                                        campaigns on risk
                         N/A         information campaign for
 Communication                                                   management and
                                          the general public
                                                                 information on emergency
                                                                 response carried out
                                            Strengthening        Target achieved (105%)
                                            environmental        42 organizations engaged in
                                             organizations       environmental awareness
                                     coordination in prevention through DAMA
                                     activities in hazard-prone
 D.3 Socio-
                                           areas, linking 40
 environmental
                                             organizations
 Action for Risk
                                                                 Target achieved (100%)
 Reduction
                                          Administration of      4 environmental preventive
                                       protected land through    programs to strengthen
                                      community participation quality of life of
                                               schemes           communities living in risk-
                                                                 prone areas
 Integrated                          Identification of physical, Target achieved (100%)



                                            35
 resettlements                           legal, social, and        Studies for socio-economic
                                      economic status of the       profiling were carried out
                                           population for          in preparation for the
                                             resettlement          resettlement process
                                     Specially designed areas      Target achieved (100%)
                                            that included          Special designated areas
                                       infrastructure, social      and resettlement schemes
                                      facilities, and income-      were made available in
                                     generating activities prior   preparation for the
                                             resettlement          resettlement process
                                     Resettlement of up to 700     Target surpassed (152%)
                                      families living in areas     1,067 families were
                                       subject to landslides       relocated to safer locations,
                                                                   7 families do not live in the
                                                                   risk-prone area anymore.
                                     Strategy to ensure that the   Target achieved (100%)
                                     previously occupied high-     A strategy to prevent future
                                      risk areas remain closed     settlements in risk-prone
                                          to future human          areas was developed by
                                             settlements           FOPAE


Component E: Financial Coverage for Risk Management

This component’s objective was to develop a risk-financing strategy for losses arising
from natural disasters. It aimed at providing the Municipality of Bogota D.C. with a
financial strategy that guarantees the appropriation of resources needed for disaster
reconstruction or rehabilitation based on the most advanced catastrophe risk modeling
techniques (probabilistic earthquake-risk models) and financial instruments (parametric
insurance, contingent debt, catastrophe bonds). It also intended to facilitate the
development of a private catastrophe-insurance market, based on recent experiences in
Colombia.

This component planned to finance two studies with 4 objectives that would contribute to
the management of disaster risks in Bogota:

   Expansion of the probabilistic earthquake-risk model developed under APLl to all
    public and private buildings, in order to estimate the impact of earthquake scenarios
    on public buildings (schools, hospitals, administrative buildings), excluding
    infrastructure (for example, bridges, roads, telecommunication, water, electricity),
    and private buildings. These loss estimates complement loss estimates caused by
    floods and landslides (based on historical data).

   Design of a financial strategy for this residual risk, based on a combination of ex-post
    risk-financing instruments (for example, new loans, diverted loans, tax increases) and
    ex-ante instruments (for example, parametric insurance, contingent credit). The ex-
    ante risk-financing instruments aimed at financing the resource gap between
    immediate post-disaster needs (for example, emergency costs, restoration of lifeline


                                            36
    infrastructure). This resource gap, determined by the severity of the disaster and the
    ability of the District to raise funds after a disaster, defines the best cost-effective
    financial strategies to access financial markets.

   Revision of the current portfolio of insured and uninsured public assets that are under
    the direct responsibility of the District of Bogota (contracts, sum insured, risk covered,
    deductible, premium rate, exclusions, and so forth) in order to optimize the portfolio
    of insured assets, and to create a special position responsible for negotiating the
    insurance contracts of all public buildings with insurance brokers.

   Assessment of how the Municipality could facilitate the emergence of a private
    catastrophe-insurance market in the District of Bogota, as well as the preconditions
    for the development of such an insurance scheme.

The last two components were planned to allow the Secretaría de Hacienda Distrital
(SHD) to assess the residual risk that is retained by the District. The institutions involved
in this component were DPAE and SHD.

Although evidence of studies to reduce the District’s fiscal vulnerability to disasters were
provided after the ICR workshop, these studies were not delivered, disseminated or used
in planning before project closing, and therefore no contribution to the achievement of
the PDO was registered.


                           Table 6 – Component E Indicators


  Subcomponent         Baseline                 Target                      Result
 E.1 Two studies                          Expansion of the
 for the                   0          probabilistic earthquake-
 management of                                risk model
 disaster risks in                      Financial strategy for
                           0
 Bogota                                      residual risk         Study carried out, but not
                                        Revision of District’s        delivered before the
                           0           portfolio of insured and      Project’s closing date
                                       uninsured public assets
                                      Establishment of a private
                           0            catastrophe-insurance
                                        market in the District




                                             37
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                        (including assumptions in the analysis)

Before the Project was implemented, a cost-benefit analysis was carried out by
Ghesquiere, Yamin and Mahul (2006) using a probabilistic cost-benefit analysis, which
in turn relied on a catastrophe risk model. This ICR relies on that report and assumes that
the maximum probable loss will be mitigated in 3.9% of the value of the assets. However,
the cost-benefit analysis carried out in this ICR uses actual costs of the Project by sector
and assesses its benefits given a set of assumptions and parameters.

Civil works carried out in connection to the Project aimed at retrofitting
schools/kindergartens and preventing landslides/flooding, improving hazard monitoring,
developing building codes, and resettlement programs. Overall, these interventions are
likely to have reduced the District’s vulnerability and potential losses. However,
modeling exercises done in connection with this Project have focused on a single hazard
(earthquakes) and provide a scenario-based approach to such seismic damages. Scenarios
are offered as examples that depend on where the seism occurs and its magnitude and are
not exhaustive of the multiple scenarios that can emerge from a combination of hazards.
Precise analysis is particularly difficult in large-scale disaster mitigation projects where
costs are definitive while benefits, which are largely derived from avoided losses, are at
best probabilistic.

The cost-benefit analysis carried out in this ICR has made a number of assumptions that
compensate for the lack of information on the value of the assets and the losses that were
mitigated, as well as of lack of information on demographic trends for benefited
population (i.e. resettled families, children in intervened schools). Since no data on the
value of the assets was found, this ICR relies on Bitran (nd) who found that non-
structural elements in a hospital range between 75 to 85 percent of the total asset value.
In other words, the physical structure of a hospital typically ranges between 15 and 25%
of the total value of the asset. This ICR took the mid-point in that range and assumes that
the structure (i.r. building) of a hospital represents only 20% of the value of the asset.
However, since no values for hospitals structures was available, this ICR relies on Bitran
(nd) who found that the value of retrofitting as a proportion of the physical structure of a
hospital ranges between 8 and 15 percent as found by Bitran (nd) for a sample of Latin
American countries. The scenarios presented in Tables A.3.1, A.3.2 and A.3.3 will all
present financial results (e.g. B-C ratio, IRR and NPV) assuming that the value invested
through the Project in retrofitting works represents either an 8 or an 15 percent of the
value of the structure. With structure values calculated on the basis of investments made
in retrofitting, the ICR estimated asset values considering that the estimated structure
value was only 20 percent of the total. Finally, benefits from hospital retrofitting were
affected by lack of completion in most of the works. Therefore, this ICR also uses the 57
percent completion rate shown by the intermediate outcome indicator 8 to calculate
maximum probable benefits.

There was also an absence of valuation of assets that were retrofitted in the education
sector. Although no figures for the value of structure as a proportion of the total assets



                                            38
were found in the literature, past and current work elsewhere in Latin America suggest
that retrofitting can represent up to 60 percent of the total asset to be cost-effective.
Therefore, this ICR presents three different scenarios for school’s structure value at 30,
45 and 60 percent of total assets.

One key aspect of this analysis was the value of lives saved as a result of the works. This
ICR recognizes that placing a monetary value on life presents difficult and ethical
questions. Without rejecting those claims, this ICR simply presents a value of life that
represents that of the typical contribution of a worker in the labor market and therefore
the valuation of life that is made here is only partial and modest. This ICR makes two
different valuations: those lives saved as a result of reinforcing schools (i.e. children’s
lives saved) and those lives saved by resettling families that were living in non-mitigable
areas of Bogota.

Since the approach to valuing life is to take only the labor market aspect, this ICR
assumes that the working life of every child in the education system is 40 years, which in
turn assumes that the retirement age is 60 (the average between retirement for women at
57 and men at 62 in Colombia) and that children become economically active at age 20.
To calculate the value in the labor market that saved lives will produce in the case of
resettling families, a number of assumptions are made. First, that the value of saved
children’s live is already counted in the schools’ estimate. Second, that there is only one
working parent in every household. Third, that the amount of years that a parent remains
as economically active is 25 years. Fourth, that future average income of economically
active persons is equal to Colombia’s per capita GDP. Finally, since the economic value
of a saved life is a benefit with an uncertain timeline, this ICR opted for being
conservative, and assumed that such benefits to the project occur only at the end of its
lifetime (2022).

In developing countries, discounted rates typically range between 8 and 12 percent. This
ICR will employ the extremes of this range (8 and 12 percent) in addition to a
conservative scenario of the opportunity cost of the money of 3%, which can also be seen
a social discount rate. The cost-benefit analysis therefore presents 18 different scenarios
that are the combination of not only the aforementioned discount rates, but also the value
that retrofitting represents from each hospital’s physical structure and the value that
retrofitting represents from each school’s physical structure. The former can take the
extreme values found in Bitran (8 and 15 percent), while the latter can be 30, 45 and 60
percent.

The most salient feature of this analysis is that the Project was not efficiently carried out
if only the value of the assets is taken into account. The Project is considerably efficient
if the avoided loss of lives is included. The Benefit-Cost ratio in Tables A.3.1, A.3.2 and
A.3.3 is lower than 1 in all scenarios if only the avoided losses in terms of assets are
included ranging in values between 0.31 and 0.62. However, if the value of lives saved is
included it delivers ratios of at least 10 times the value of its costs. The B-C ratio
including lives saved ranges from 10.66 with a discount rate of 3% to 15.39 with discount
rates of 12%.



                                             39
The Project also yields solid Internal Rates of Return (IRR) and sizable Net Present
Values (NPV) if the avoided loss of lives is included. IRRs range from -15.8 percent if
the value of saved lives is not included, to 15.9 per cent if they are. The former is a result
that appears regardless of the discount rate and only if the value of retrofitting for both
hospitals (15 percent) and schools (60 percent) is assumed. The latter also results
regarding of the discount rate and appear when retrofitting values for both schools and
hospitals are at their lowest: 30 and 8 percent respectively.

As can be expected, NPV is negative for scenarios not including the value of saved lives.
NPV without estimates for saved lives, go from -14.63 million dollars, to as much as
36.34 million dollars. The former is a scenario (see Table A.3.3) when the maximum
discount rate of 12% and minimum retrofitting values are assumed (8 percent for
hospitals and 30 percent for schools). The latter is a scenario with the lowest discount rate
(see table A.3.1) and maximum assumed retrofitting values of 15 percent for hospitals
and 60 percent for schools. However, if the value of saved lives is included in our
estimates, NPVs are solid and positive. The smallest NPV can be found with the highest
dioscount rate (12 percent) and maximum retrofitting values (15 and 60 percent for
hospitals and schools respectively) in Table A.3.3. If a lower discount rate of 3% and
minimum values of retrofitting are assumed (8 and 30 percent for hospitals and schools
respectively) NPV can be as high as 327 million dollars.

                                         Table A.3.1
Discount rate 3%
                  Retrofitting share of structure value             Value of Life
                      Hospital             Schools        Not included          Included
Benefit-Cost             8%                  30%               0.62               10.95
IRR                                                            -7%                15.9%
NPV*                                                        ($20.62)             $327.20
Benefit-Cost             8%                  45%               0.59               10.93
IRR                                                           -7.6%               15.7%
NPV*                                                        ($22.00)             $325.82
Benefit-Cost             8%                  60%               0.58               10.91
IRR                                                           -7.8%               15.7%
NPV*                                                        ($22.69)             $325.13
Benefit-Cost            15%                  30%               0.37                10.7
IRR                                                          -14.6%               15.0%
NPV*                                                        ($34.28)             $313.55
Benefit-Cost            15%                  45%               0.34               10.67
IRR                                                          -15.4%               14.9%
NPV*                                                        ($35.65)             $312.17
Benefit-Cost            15%                  60%               0.33               10.66
IRR                                                          -15.8%               14.9%
NPV*                                                        ($36.34)             $311.48
* In Millions of US$




                                              40
                                         Table A.3.2
Discount rate 8%
                  Retrofitting share of structure value             Value of Life
                      Hospital             Schools        Not included          Included
Benefit-Cost             8%                  30%               0.60               13.29
IRR                                                            -7%                15.9%
NPV*                                                        ($16.96)             $138.42
Benefit-Cost             8%                  45%               0.57               13.27
IRR                                                           -7.6%               15.7%
NPV*                                                        ($18.06)             $137.32
Benefit-Cost             8%                  60%               0.56               13.26
IRR                                                           -7.8%               15.7%
NPV*                                                        ($18.61)             $136.77
Benefit-Cost            15%                  30%               0.35               13.05
IRR                                                          -14.6%               15.0%
NPV*                                                        ($27.06)             $128.31
Benefit-Cost            15%                  45%               0.33               13.03
IRR                                                          -15.4%               14.9%
NPV*                                                        ($28.16)             $127.21
Benefit-Cost            15%                  60%               0.31               13.01
IRR                                                          -15.8%               14.9%
NPV*                                                        ($28.71)             $126.66
* In Millions of US$
                                         Table A.3.3
Discount rate 12%
                  Retrofitting share of structure value             Value of Life
                      Hospital             Schools        Not included          Included
Benefit-Cost             8%                  30%               0.58                15.39
IRR                                                            -7%                15.9%
NPV*                                                        ($14.63)              $69.10
Benefit-Cost             8%                  45%               0.55                15.37
IRR                                                           -7.6%               15.7%
NPV*                                                        ($15.56)              $68.17
Benefit-Cost             8%                  60%               0.54                15.35
IRR                                                           -7.8%               15.7%
NPV*                                                        ($16.03)              $67.70
Benefit-Cost            15%                  30%               0.35                15.16
IRR                                                          -14.6%               15.0%
NPV*                                                        ($22.67)              $61.06
Benefit-Cost            15%                  45%               0.32                15.13
IRR                                                          -15.4%               14.9%
NPV*                                                        ($23.60)              $60.13
Benefit-Cost            15%                  60%               0.31                15.12
IRR                                                          -15.8%               14.9%
NPV*                                                        ($24.07)              $59.66
* In Millions of US$




                                              41
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
           Names                             Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Alliali, Solange A.            Sr. Counsel                         LEGLA Legal
                               Hazard Risk Management
                                                                   LCSFU
Cardona, Omar D.               Consultant                                  Hazard monitoring
Correa, Elena                  Sr. Social Specialist               LCSEO   Resettlements
Daza, Ana F.                   Language Program Assistant          LCSFU   Administrative
Deeb, Alejandro M.             Hydrologist                         LCSEN   Hydrology
Estupinan, Jeannette           Financial Management Specialist     LCOAA   Financial mgmt.
Ghesquiere, Francis            Hazard Risk Management Specialist   LCSFU   Task Team Leader
Jimenez, Efraim                Procurement Specialist              LCOPR   Procurement
Mahul, Olivier                 Sr. Insurance Specialist             OPD    Insurance
Martinez, Jose M.              Procurement Specialist              LCOPR   Procurement
Robert O'Leary                 Sr. Finance Officer                 LOAGl   Financial mgmt.
Solo, Tova M.                  Disaster Management Specialist      LCFPS   DRM
Toro Landivar, Jose C.         Hazard Risk Management
                                                                   LCSFU
Joaquin                        Consultant                                DRM
Wright, James Otis             Urban Economist Consultant          LCSFU Urban planning
Zarzar Casis, Alonso           Social Scientist                    LCSEO Social

Supervision/ICR
Agudelo Martinez, Mauricio     Consultant                          LCCCO
Alfaro Alvarenga, Celso Saul   Consultant                          LCCCO
Aristizabal, Ana Maria         Consultant                          LCCCO
Bermudez Arboleda, Nury C.     Consultant                          LCCCO
Berroa, Diomedes               Senior Operations Officer           LCSOP   Operations
Burbano, Angela Lucia          Consultant                          LCCCO
Campos Garcia, Ana             ET Consultant                       LCSDU   DRM
Cardenas Garcia, Claudia M.    Consultant                          LCCCO
Carletto, Andre L.             DRM Consultant ICR                  LCSDU   DRM
Costa Posada, Carlos Rufino    Consultant                          LCCCO
Cuellar, Richard               Temporary                           LCCCO   Administrative
Daza, Ana F.                   Language Program Assistant          LCSFU   Administrative
Deeb, Alejandro M.             Hydrologist                         LCSEN   Hydrology
Della Monica, Rossella         Communications Consultant           LCSUW   Communications
Diaz Giraldo, Carolina         DRM Consultant                      LCSDU   DRM
Dickson, Eric                  Sr Urban Specialist                 LCSDU   Task Team Leader
Esquivel, Maricarmen           ET Consultant                       LCSDU   DRM
Estupinan, Jeannette           Financial Management Specialist     LCOAA   Financial mgmt.
Garcia-Pertusa, Raquel         Consultant                          LCCCO
Ghesquiere, Francis            Hazard Risk Management Specialist   LCSFU   Task Team Leader
Gonzalez, Luz Maria            Consultant                          LCSUW   Hydrology


                                              42
Guzman Escobar, Armando E       Sr. DRM Specialist                LCSDU    DRM
Herrera, Vladimir               Consultant Web                    LCSDU    Web design
Holm-Nielsen, Niels B.          Sr. DRM Specialist                LCSDU    Task Team Leader
Hoornweg, Daniel A.             Sr. DRM Specialist                LCSUW    Task Team Leader
Ivarsdotter, Kristine M.        Sr. DRM Specialist                LCSUW
Lozano, Teresa del Pilar        Consultant                        LCCCO
Mahul, Olivier                  Sr. Insurance Specialist           OPD     Insurance
Martinez, Jose M.               Procurement Specialist            LCOPR    Procurement
Meli, Nara C.                   Consultant                        LCSDU    DRM
Miguez, Nils Eduardo            Consultant                        LCCCO
Molina Prieto, Carlos Alberto   Consultant                        LCCCO
Moran-Porche, Silvia            Consultant                        LCCCO
Morel, Xiomara A.               Sr Financial Management Spec.     LCSFM    Financial mgmt.
Munoz Santamaria, Yecid         Consultant                        LCCCO
Myboto, Ulrich Cedric           Sr. DRM Specialist                LCSUW    Task Team Leader
Ortega Lopez, Juan Ricardo      Consultant                        LCCCO
Prieto Arbelaez, Felix          Consultant                        LCCCO
Rodriguez Pinilla, Jorge E.     Consultant                        LCSDU    Engineering
Rosas Apraez, Juan Pablo        Consultant                        LCCCO
Sanchez-Reaza, Javier           Sr Urban Specialist               LCSDU    ICR TTL
Sellen, Daniel M.               Sector Leader                     LCSSD    Management
Souza Weich, Mercedes           Consultant                        LCCCO
Sviedrys, Nikolai               Consultant                        LCSDU    Financial
Tarazona Gomez, Marcela         Consultant                        LCCCO
Toro Landivar, Jose C.
                                Hazard Risk Management Specialist LCSFU DRM
Joaquin
Torres, Santiago Rene           Procurement Specialist             LCOPR Procurement
Trejos Gomez, Claudia
                                ET Consultant                     LCSDU DRM
Lorena
Vanegas Santos, Olga Lucia      Consultant                        LCCCO
Zeron, Luz A.                   Financial Management Specialist   LCOAA Financial mgmt.

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending

  FY04                                              -                       3,270.10
  FY05                                           18.19                     103,864.81
  FY06                                           21.70                     135,580.42
                                Total:           39.89                     242,715.33
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                            1.24                      8,773.99
  FY07                                           11.58                     86,785.23
  FY08                                           13.17                     72,859.00


                                                43
FY09             19.49   145,742.77
FY10             20.03   106,129.68
FY11              9.40    79,031.83
FY12              9.21    80,867.82
FY13             17.94   125,736.23
FY14             20.30   138,046.59
       Total:   122.36   843,973.14




                44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

          Non-Applicable




                45
                Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                                                                    Bogotá, April 30, 2014

The workshop was entitled, “Validation of Results for the Bogota Disaster Vulnerability
Reduction Project in support of the Second Phase of the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction
Program - APL 2” was carried out with the objective to bring together representatives of
the Bank, Borrower (GoB), and implementing agencies to share, discuss, and validate the
results of the Project.

Present at the workshop were representatives of the World Bank (Country Office and
Headquarters), Project Coordination Unit -Secretaría Distrital de Hacienda (SDH)-, and
Project Implementation Agencies -Secretaría Distrital de Ambiente (SDA), Secretaría
Distrital de Salud (SDS), Secretaría Distrital de Educación (SED), Secretaría Distrital
de Integración Social (SDIS), Caja de Vivienda Popular, and Fondo Prevención y
Asistencia a Emergencias (FOPAE)-.

Opening remarks for this participatory one-day workshop were delivered by Martha
Lucía Parra, Director of Public Credit of District Finance Secretariat (Secretaría Distrital
de Hacienda) in representation of the Borrower, and Javier Sánchez-Reaza, ICR TTL, in
representation of the Bank.

Presentations were carried out by the ICR Team in order to introduce the importance of
the report and its benefits, as well as to present the findings regarding the indicators,
target achievement, positive and negative issues affecting implementation, and overall
project implementation rating. After each presentation, a round of discussion followed up
to search for a consensus on the discussed topic, as well as to draw lessons from issues
faced during implementation.

The presence of an ample cross-section of Bank and Borrower interests fostered a highly
productive discussion and exchange of views in a relatively short period of time. The
salient points of the discussion are as follows:

Factors affecting implementation

   The Government and the Bank built a solid partnership on DRM, which has ensured
    continuous technical and financial support and close collaboration free from political
    changes in the District.
   The implementing institutions, without exception, benefit from staff with a high level
    of dedication and professionalism, which has had positive effects on project
    implementation.
   Use of a procurement system that in addition to complying with Bank principles,
    enabled local competition, resulted in competitive prices and a more efficient and
    transparent implementation of the adjudication process.



                                            46
   The lack of consistency between District’s policies/sector development plan and
    Project goals, and a gap between Project targets and ground reality, given the lack of
    pre-feasibility studies.
   SDH faced obstacles to appropriate enforcing of reporting and project management
    mechanisms since executing agencies obtained Bank’s resources directly, which
    effectively reduced incentives to comply with reporting and progress mechanisms.
   Delays in project implementation due to the particular health system legal framework
    effectively prevented both SDH and SDS from ensuring proper execution of Project
    activity. Delays also occurred given the complexity of building hospitals is higher
    than other structures (e.g. schools) in the Project.
   Technical and financial planning shortcomings of some implementing agencies to
    ensure compliance of civil works and underestimation of building permit-granting
    and utility-service request periods.
   Project implementation has been adversely affected by a high turnover of staff in
    different implementation agencies.

Considerations for Project overall rating

   The Project supported the establishment of a solid basis in the Capital District of
    Bogota to reduce its vulnerability to natural events, by strengthening its capacity to
    manage disaster risks.
   Building on Project results, the District has continued with risk assessment and
    monitoring.
   Although several activities in the health subcomponent were not fully achieved,
    surpassed targets on indicators of equal or greater relative weight more than
    compensated this shortfall.
   The legal and institutional framework is clearer and more consolidated, and SPDAE
    is fully operational; its expansion is an ongoing process. For these reasons, the Project
    is rated as satisfactory.

Considerations for Project Bank performance

   Close collaboration with Borrower during Project preparation
   Flexibility of design and inclusion of innovative elements to enhance the Project’s
    impact, and reasonable targets in a context of institutional evolution and
    experimentation.
   The Project’s design was a pioneer effort at the time, and responded adequately to
    client needs.
   Given the difficult challenge to reduce the District’s vulnerability and the particular
    institutional setting, risk assessment and institutional analysis understandably had
    some shortcomings, but did not affect project outcomes in the long run.
   Supervision missions were timely and solution oriented to address critical issues
    affecting project implementation.
   Procurement and financial management were well supervised.




                                             47
    Supervision of safeguards was conducted and no negative social or environmental
     impacts were identified as a result of project activities.

Considerations for Project Borrower performance

    Government sustained its commitment to PDO achievement, including especially the
     concerted effort to reduce the District vulnerability to disasters while strengthening
     key agencies and the SPDAE.
    Given the innovative and inter-sector nature of the Project, coordination issues were
     bound to arise.
    At times the Project experienced delays due to personnel turnover and
     implementation arrangements limited by the legal institutional framework. However,
     the priority given by the Government to the Project consistently provided an enabling
     environment for project implementation and facilitated resolution to critical
     constraints.
    Delays in loan effectiveness led the District to proactively implement activities using
     their own funds to speed up project implementation.
    The speed of project implementation increased, which led to an early completion of
     activities and meeting most of the PDOs by year 3 of implementation.
    Management and institutional coordination shortcomings prevented the timely
     delivery of health subcomponent products and activities.

Considerations for Lessons Learned

    Investing in vulnerability reduction pays off in the long term, especially if coupled
     with flexibility and responsiveness to city needs and conditions.
    DRM capacity building contributes to ownership and sustainability of results.
    Development of monitoring and evaluation systems and sound economic analysis for
     DRM Projects is critical, not only to measure results, but also to draw well-grounded
     lessons.
    Targets should be established realistically in terms of institutional and local market
     conditions, and should also consider local development plans and policy frameworks.
    The establishment or consolidation of a technical project unit responsible for project
     activities in each implementing agency could facilitate the implementation of civil
     works and ensure its completion to satisfaction.

In light of the discussion around indicators and target completion, the following
commitments were set:

 #            Agency                              Commitment                         Date
                                Send copy of the internal memo to SDH
     Secretaría Distrital de
 1                              notifying the reduction from 18 to 8 hospitals    07-May-2014
     Salud (SDS)
                                as target to be retrofitted (Subcomponent B.3).
                                Send officially the final number of
     Secretaría Distrital de
 2                              environment organizations working with            05-May-2014
     Ambiente (SDA)
                                DAMA in prevention (Subcomponent D.3).



                                             48
   Secretaría Distrital de     Send copy of 2 risk financing studies
 3                                                                          05-May-2014
   Hacienda (SDH)              (Component E)
   Secretaría Distrital de     Send copy of Borrower’s Project Completion
 4                                                                          05-May-2014
   Hacienda (SDH)              Report.

As final conclusion, the workshop allowed a productive discussion between the Bank and
implementing agencies on the design, implementation and results of the Project, which in
turn allowed for a better understanding of the challenges faced during the implementation,
as well as the impacts that achieving and not achieving the expected results achieved
have.

The evaluation team recognizes the efforts made by various officers in all District
agencies involved in the process of designing and implementing the Project, and
appreciates the proactive attitude of workshop participants.




                                           49
             Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR


From:           Martha Lucia Parra Garcia <mlparra@shd.gov.co>
To:             "jsanchezreaza@worldbank.org" <jsanchezreaza@worldbank.org>
Cc:             Luis Javier Montero Mendez <ljmontero@shd.gov.co>
Date:           07/09/2014 07:45 PM
Subject:        RV: BIRF 7365-CO Observaciones documento ICR


Buenas tardes Javier,

En primer lugar te pido disculpas por el retraso en el envío de los comentarios.

Remitimos el documento de evaluación ICR realizado por el Banco con los comentarios puntales
de la DDCP incluidos dentro del texto del documento pdf adjunto.

Adicionalmente a continuación presentamos los comentarios generales al documento:

   Pueden existir algunos comentarios sobre frases que cambian su sentido en el momento de
    la traducción del inglés al español.
   El formato del documento es preestablecido por el banco, sin embargo consideramos que
    las siglas y abreviaturas deberían precisarse para efectos de entender todos los términos, e
    incluir el objetivo del documento o una introducción que guie la estructura del mismo. Lo
    mismo sucede en algunos cuadros y gráficas, no hay un texto introductorio o explicativo que
    la contextualice.
   Se anexa el cuadro de ejecución financiera del proyecto actualizado.

Con respecto al capítulo 7 Comentarios sobre temas sugeridos por el
Prestatario/Instituciones Ejecutoras/Socios (página 37), a continuación se presentan los
siguientes comentarios, acorde con el desarrollo del taller adelantado el pasado mes de abril:

Oportunidades de mejora para el banco

   Se debe aumentar la flexibilidad para que, en desarrollo de los proyectos, se pueda autorizar
    la reformulación de los mismos a medida que se implementen; se debe utilizar la evaluación
    de medio término para este propósito y replantear los componentes críticos y reasignar
    recursos.
   Se solicita al banco definición clara del proceso de contratación de las auditorías externas,
    con su área financiera y en coordinación con los prestatarios, para evitar retrasos; en el caso
    de la auditoría para la vigencia 2013, se cambiaron las reglas para los términos de referencia
    y el esquema de contratación y, una vez finalizado el proceso de adjudicación, este fue
    observado y se hizo visita de revisión después de haberle sido otorgada la no objeción al
    proceso, lo que genero demoras en el inicio del contrato.

Lecciones Aprendidas

   Flexibilizando la posibilidad de reformular el proyecto, durante su periodo de ejecución, se
    pueden modificar las metas de sus componentes a fin de balancear el proyecto.
   Con base en las problemáticas planteadas al momento de ejecutar obras y de acuerdo con
    las situaciones enunciadas, relativas a los procesos de contratación y ejecución de las
    mismas, en el proceso de planeación tener en cuenta: situación financiera de los posibles
    contratistas, trámites a realizar previamente con entidades distritales y nacionales, un mayor
    seguimiento y una mayor exigencia en el cumplimiento de cronogramas a contratistas e
    interventores.



                                                50
    Se debe procurar mantener en la SDH y en las entidades ejecutoras el personal ya
     capacitado e idóneo para la contratación bajo las normas banca y su consiguiente gestión
     presupuestal, y para la coordinación y ejecución de proyectos financiados con recursos de la
     banca multilateral. Se propone que en cada entidad se nombre un responsable general de lo
     pertinente a la ejecución del componente asignado en el proyecto.
    Las entidades ejecutoras deben ser más rigurosas con la elaboración del archivo físico e
     informático de la memoria y evidencia física del desarrollo de los proyectos.
    Así mismo estas entidades deben ser más exigentes en cada proceso de contratación,
     respecto a la verdadera capacidad financiera y operativa de los aspirantes, de cara a evitar
     contratar empresas que no cuenten con la capacidad técnica y financiera requerida, que a la
     postre no puedan terminar las obras a satisfacción.
    Previo al inicio de un proceso contractual, específicamente en los procesos de obra civil, las
     entidades deberán contar con toda la documentación que avale que dicho proceso está
     debidamente planeado y soportado.
    Para los contratos de obra civil, la entidad deberá solicitar a los posibles contratistas un
     reporte de las obras que este ejecutando, con el fin de validar su capacidad financiera, con el
     fin de minimizar los riesgos de adjudicar varios contratos a un solo oferente.
    Se recomienda estudiar la posibilidad de que las entidades ejecutoras, cuando se trate de
     contratos de interventoría de obra, se facture por avance de obras sobre las que se ejerce la
     interventoría y no sobre tiempo de permanencia en obra.

Quedamos atentos a tus observaciones.

Finalmente queremos agradecer tu apoyo en este proceso, el cual redunda en beneficios para el
Distrito Capital en la ejecución de futuros proyectos.

Cordial Saludo,


Martha Lucia Parra Garcia
Secretaría Distrital de Hacienda.
Dirección Distrital de Credito Publico
Kra 30 Num 25 - 90 Piso 3
Código Postal 111311
Tel. 57-1-3385356
mailto:mlparra@shd.gov.co



Antes de imprimir este e-mail, considere si realmente es necesario. Piense Verde!

NOTA CONFIDENCIAL: La información contenida en este mensaje es confidencial y sólo puede ser utilizada por el individuo o la
compañía a la cual está dirigido. Si no es el receptor autorizado, cualquier retención, difusión, distribución o copia de este mensaje
es prohibida y será sancionada por la ley. Si por error recibe este mensaje, favor devolverlo a quien lo envió y borrar
inmediatamente el mensaje recibido.




                                                                                            RESUMEN EJECUCIÓN BIRF7365
CREDITO Y CONTRAPARTIDA.xlsx

                                                 Informe ICR banco Javier Sanchez.pdf




                                                                 51
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


                         Non-Applicable




                               52
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the amount of US$ 80
      million to the Capital District of Bogota for a Disaster Vulnerability Reduction
      Project in Support of the Second Phase of the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction
      Program (January, 2006)

2.    Project Paper on Restructuring the Colombia: Bogota for a Disaster Vulnerability
      Reduction Project – APL2 (June, 2009)

3.    Project Paper on Restructuring the Colombia: Bogota for a Disaster Vulnerability
      Reduction Project – APL2 (April, 2011)

4.    Project Paper on Restructuring the Colombia: Bogota for a Disaster Vulnerability
      Reduction Project – APL2 (December, 2012)

5.    Borrower’s Implementation Completion Report, Original Credit (May 2014)

6.    Economic and Financial Analysis for Original Credit and AF (May 2014)

7.    Independent Procurement Review Report (November 2008)

8.    Independent Procurement Review Report (February 2011)

9.    Colombia - Probabilistic modeling for disaster risk management (in Spanish) –
      Yamin, et al (2013)

10.   General Study on Seismic Hazard in Colombia (AIS, 2010).

11.   Earthquake Vulnerability Reduction Program in Colombia: A Probabilistic Cost-
      benefit Analysis – Ghesquiere et al. (2006).

12.   Análisis Costo-Efectividad en la Mitigación de Daños de Desastres Naturales
      sobre la Infraestructura Social –Bitran (nd)

13.   District Decree 723 from 1999. Organization of District's Prevention and
      Emergency Response System.

14.   District Decree 61 9 from 2000. Land Use Planning.

15.   District Decree 904 from 2001. Regularization and Management Plans.

16.   District Decree 332 from 2004. Update of the Organization of District's
      Prevention and Emergency Response System.




                                         53
