 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14875

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 12/01/2015

               Country: Colombia
             Project ID: P085727                                                      Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Disaster Vulnerability         Project Costs (US$M):                        145             147.11
                         Reduction Project -
                         Apl2
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                         80                63.45
      Sector Board:      Urban Development              Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                              03/03/2006
                                                                Closing Date:          06/30/2011         01/31/2014
           Sector(s):      Health (50%); General education sector (35%); Other social services (10%); Central
                           government administration (3%); Non-compulsory pensions and insurance (2%)
          Theme(s):        Natural disaster management (50%); Participation and civic engagement (25%); City-wide
                           Infrastructure and Service Delivery (25%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              John R. Eriksson         Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objectives of the project are to assist the borrower in reducing its vulnerability to adverse natural events by: (i)
strengthening its capacity to manage disaster risks; and (ii) reducing vulnerability in key sectors (LA p 24, under
Schedule 2).

The formulation of the PDO is identical to this both in the PAD and the ICR, expect from that the two latter documents
specify that the “borrower” is the Capital District of Bogotá.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project had five components (ICR p 3-4, PAD p 6-8).

A.      Risk Identification
(Appraisal: Total: US$ 4.5 million; none from the Bank, all from the Borrower; Actual: Total: US$ 6.1 million; none from
the Bank, all from the Borrower.

This component aimed to enhance the capacity of the District of Bogotá to identify and monitor natural disaster risks in
order to better target its investments and identify potential calamities before they occur, through hazard identification,
vulnerability assessment and risk mapping. Activities included: Risk identification and Risk monitoring.

B.       Risk Reduction
(Appraisal: Total: US$ 104.3 million; of which US$ 78.6 million from the Bank and US$ 25,6 million from Borrower;
Actual: Total US$ 95.7 million; of which US$ 62.09 from the Bank and 32.08 from the Borrower)
This component was intended to complement the city government’s existing risk reduction efforts regarding critical
facilities and lifeline infrastructure in the event of a disaster by supporting the implementation of nonstructural and
functional mitigation measures for the continuation of public services during and after emergencies. Activities under
this component included the engineering designs, retrofitting or construction works in public buildings to meet the
latest seismic standards, and small mitigation works to mitigate landslides. Activities included: Seismic mitigation and
Landslide mitigation.

C.        Institutional Strengthening (Appraisal: Total: US$ 7.5 million, US$ 1.04 million from the Bank and US$ 6.5
million from the Borrower; Actual: Total: US$ 15.58 million, of which US$ 1.08 million from the Bank and US$ 14.5
million from the Borrower)
This component aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and capacity of the District Administration to prepare for,
respond to, and recover from significant emergencies. In this context, the component also supported the
strengthening of the District’s capacity to implement the project. Activities financed under this component included
training of participating agencies’ staff in safeguard, fiduciary, and technical aspects of the project, capacity building
for Prevention and Emergency response, and the implementation of an environmental management strategy to
strengthen compliance of district public works with environmental requirements.
Activities (from PAD): Project Administration, Capacity Building, and Environmental Management.

D.        Risk Prevention and Awareness (Appraisal: Total US$ 20.9 million, none from the Bank, all from the
Borrower; Actual: Total: US$ 30.2 million; none from the Bank, all from the Borrower.
The objective of this component was to increase awareness at all levels of society, but particularly at the community
level in order to convey the importance of risk mitigation and disaster preparedness. Activities carried out included risk
education, information campaign, and resettlement of approximately 2.300 families living in high-risk areas.

Financial Coverage for Risk Management (Appraisal: Total: US$ 0.5 million, of which US$ 0.38 million from the Bank
and US$ 0.17 million from the Borrower, Actual: Total: US$ 0.28 million; all from the Bank, none from the Borrower)
This component objective was to develop a risk-financing strategy for losses arising from natural disasters. It aimed at
providing the Municipality of Bogotá D.C with a financial strategy that guaranteed the appropriation of resources
needed for disaster reconstruction or rehabilitation based on the most advanced catastrophe-risk modeling techniques
(probabilistic earthquake risk models) and financial instruments (parametric insurance, contingent debt and/or
catastrophe bonds). It was also intended to facilitate the development of a private catastrophe insurance market,
based on recent experiences in Colombia.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project costs and Borrower Contribution:
The total project costs were estimated at appraisal to be US$ 145 million, of which the Bank contribution was
estimated to be US$ 80 million, and the Borrower was to contribute US$ 65 million. The actual project costs were US$
147.11 million, of which US$ 63.46 was incurred by the Bank and US$ 83.65 by the Borrower.

There is a miscalculation of the percentage of the Borrower’s contribution to the total investment; the ICR states that
the borrower’s contribution was 45 percent of the total investments, while it was in fact 56 percent (US$ 83 million of a
total of US$ 147 million = 56 percent).

The very minor differences in figures between the table presented in the ICR, (p. 25, Annex 1), and in the text (pp 3-4)
and in the PAD (pp 6-8) seem to be due to rounding, which also causes some slight internal inaccuracies within and
between tables (a) and (b) in Annex 1, p 25. . Table (b) also has a typo in summing up the Actual/latest estimated total
project costs to be US$ 157.11 million, when the figures in the table actually sum up to US$ 147.11 million.

Project costs (appraisal estimates and actual/latest estimates broken down by component) were as follows (as
presented in table (a), p 25, Annex 1 of the ICR, and on p 4):

   All US$ million            Appraisal estimates                       Actual/latest estimates

                      Bank              Borrower         T     Bank              Borrower         Total
                                                         o
                                                         t
                                                         a
                                                         l

                                                          4
     Component A                   0            4.50                      0             6.10     6.10
                                                         .
                                                         5
                                                         0

     Component B                78.6           25.60     1            62.09            32.80     94.8
                                                         0                                          9
                                                         4
                                                         .
                                                         2
                                                         0

     Component C                1.04            6.50     7             1.08            14.50     15.5
                                                         ,                                          8
                                                         5
                                                         4

     Component D                   0           20.90     2                0            30.20     30.2
                                                         0                                          0
                                                         .
                                                         9
                                                         0

     Component E                0.38            0.17     0             0.28                  0   0.28
                                                         .
                                                         5
                                                         5

     Contingencies                              7.30     7
                                                         .
                                                         3
                                                         0

     Total Project            80.02            64.97     1           63.45             83.6       147.
     Costs                                               4      (ICR table:      (ICR table:        05
                                                         4          63.46)           83.65)      (ICR
                                                         .                                       table
                                                         9                                            :
                                                         9                                        157.
                                                                                                   11)


Financing:
Apart from the Borrower’s contribution, there were no other co-financiers to this project.

Dates:
The project was approved on 03/03/2006 and effective on 10/13/2006. An MTR was conducted on 03/20/2009. The
project underwent four restructurings; on 06/24/2009; 05/30/2011; 11/13/2012; and on 12/20/2012. The original
closing date was 06/30/2011, and the revised (and actual) closing date was 01/31/2014.

Restructurings:
1)         2009 Project Restructuring . The first project restructuring was approved in June 2009 and included;
a)         revision of the extent of works under Component B: Risk Reduction, to reflect a reduction in the number of
            retrofitting or rebuilding works;
b)         an increase in the construction of new buildings where this was found to be more efficient than retrofitting
            old buildings, and
c)         changes to the environment and social safeguards arrangements described in the PAD.

2)         2011 Project Restructuring . The second project restructuring was approved in May 2011 to allow for
            the completion of the construction of seven hospitals, and included:
                                                                 th                   st
a)         an extension of the project closing date from June 30 2011 to December 31 2012; and
b)         reallocation of Loan proceeds of US$ 4,683,000 between categories.
                                                                                                      th
3)       2012 Project Restructuring . The third project restructuring was approved on December 19 2012 and
          included:
                                                                       st                     st
a)       an extension of the project closing date from December 31 , 2012 to January 31 , 2014;
b)       the cancellation of financing for civil works of two hospitals of the six unfinished hospitals due to the
          non-fulfillment of the respective milestones; and
c)       the inclusion of an additional indicator to measure weighted progress on hospital construction.

Cancellation of Funds:
A total of US$ 2.45 million were cancelled due to misprocurement on the contracting related to the retrofitting of five
kindergartens. At project closing, a total of US$ 16.5 million unused funds were cancelled from the original loan due to
the non-completion of the hospital retrofittings/constructions of new hospitals.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives is rated High, as the project’s objectives are very well aligned with both national strategies
and the Bank’s CPS for Colombia for 2010-2014.

Colombia’s National Development Plan’s (Prosperity for All 2010–2014) overarching goals are to increase
employment, reduce poverty, and to improve security. As outlined in the CPS (p 6. Para 17 and p 8 para 27), the
National Development Plan highlights four cross-cutting themes: (a) Relevance of International Relations, (b)
Environmental and Disaster Risk Management, (c) Good Governance, and (d) Regional Development and Integration.
This project’s objectives of reducing Bogotá’s vulnerability to adverse natural events by strengthening its capacity to
manage disaster risks and reducing vulnerability in key sectors are thus very well aligned with the country’s national
development plan’s cross-cutting theme (b). As outlined in the PAD (p 6) this project addresses five lines of action
outlined in Colombia’s National Plan for Disaster Prevention and Management, which are: (a) Risk identification; (b)
Risk reduction; (c) Institutional strengthening; (d) Risk prevention and awareness; and (e) Financial coverage for risk
management.

Furthermore, the PDO is fully in line with the Bank’s CPS for Colombia 2010-2014, which also states that it aims to
support Colombia’s National Development Plan. The CPS’ three strategic themes are: (i) Expanding Opportunities for
Social Prosperity; (ii) Sustainable Growth with Enhanced Climate Change Resilience; and (iii) Inclusive Growth with
Enhanced Productivity. One of the two outcomes defined under the second strategic themes is: “Strengthened
technical capacity for disaster risk management at national and regional levels” (CPS p 17, Table 4), to which this
project’s PDO is directly contributing.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Design is rated Substantial, as the project’s components and activities (Risk Identification; Risk
Reduction; Institutional Strengthening; Risk Prevention and Awareness; and Financial Coverage for Risk
Management) are relevant to and consistent with the stated Objective (reduced vulnerability to adverse natural events
by strengthening disaster risks management capacity and reducing vulnerability in key sectors. The statement of
objectives is furthermore clear and linked to intermediate and final outcomes. The causal chain between funding and
outcomes is clear and convincing;

Causal chain:
Inputs: Funds, technical assistance and capacity building
Outputs: Trained staff; Raised awareness; Retrofitted buildings and new buildings constructed according to new
seismic standards; Identification and planning tools for disaster risk management in place.
Intermediate Outcomes: (i) Strengthened Disaster Risk Management Capacity; and (ii) Reduced Vulnerability in Key
Sectors
Final Outcomes: Reduced Vulnerability to adverse natural events

While at the PAD stage retrofitting hospitals was a relatively small part of Component B relative to the retrofit of
schools, kindergartens and fire stations, project design failed to account for the considerable differences between the
various types of "critical facility” buildings within the hospital subcategory and their different design needs for
retrofitting compared to the other types of buildings.
 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The PDO for this project is: “to assist the borrower (i.e. the Capital District of Bogotá) in reducing its vulnerability to
adverse natural events by: (i) strengthening its capacity to manage disaster risks; and (ii) reducing vulnerability in key
sectors”.

IEG’s interpretation of the PDO is that the intermediate outcomes are (i) Strengthened disaster risk management
capacity; and (ii) Reduced vulnerability in key sectors, and the final outcome is “the Capital District of Bogotá’s
reduced vulnerability to adverse natural events”.

Intermediate Objectives :
(i)     Strengthened disaster risk management capacity ; Substantial

Outputs:
      1,762 teachers trained to strengthen the capacity of safety wardens in public schools (no baseline, no target)
      Reduction of total non-monitored risk area: 543 ha (Baseline: 900 ha, Target: 700 ha)
      57 risk assessment studies carried out (no baseline, no target)
      40 building-retrofitting designs (no baseline, no target)
      3 networks extended to monitor geotechnical landslide risk (no baseline, no target)
      5,730 operational personnel from Firefighters, Civil Defense, Red Cross, Fund for Prevention and Response to
       Emergencies (FOPAE), District Health Secretariat (SDS) and District Social Integration Secretariat participated in
       a total of 74 training courses that included rescue techniques and decision making during crisis. (No baseline, no
       target).
      18 agencies integrated in the Information System for Disaster Prevention and Emergency Response (SIRE).
       (Baseline: 2; Target: 8). Target surpassed by 10 agencies.

Outcomes:
      Improved understanding of risks; not measured beyond output level (number of trained teachers and relevant
       operational personnel). It is, however, plausible that the training will have led to (at least some degree of) an
       improved understanding of risk by key personnel due to the training. Also, in addition to the training, schools and
       kindergartens have marked emergency exit routes with little (child-sized) footprints printed on the floor, which
       possibly also contributes to increased awareness.
      Increased capacity to monitor risks. This indicator was not measured or reported on adequately. What is reported
       in the ICR is the same as the second bullet point above under Outputs; the reduction of total non-monitored risk
       area; there is no information as to how the capacity to monitor risks was increased. ).
      Increased capacity for agencies involved in the District System for Prevention and Emergency Response
       (SDPAE); not measured beyond the number of training courses held (74) and the number of people trained
       (5,730), it is however, plausible that this training will have contributed to (at least some degree) of increased
       capacity for the agencies involved in Risk Prevention and Emergency Response.


(ii)       Reduced vulnerability in key sectors : Modest

Outputs:
      Reduced number of people still exposed to risk in public buildings; 235,183 (Baseline: 580,000, Target: 455,000).
       As a result of the project, a total of 344,817 people in public buildings are now safer. Target surpassed.
      57% construction progress in hospitals (Baseline: 23.9%, Target: 100%). In spite of two restructurings extending
       the Project’s closing date, the underperformance of this indicator continued. Target not met.

Outcomes:
      Increased proportion of public buildings (schools, hospitals, fire stations) resistant to earthquakes. This indicator
       was not measured or reported on adequately. What is reported under this indicator is the same as the first
       output-indicator above; reduced number of people still exposed to risk in public buildings.
      Reduction of number of families living in high risk to 1,067 households no longer living in high risk areas
       (Baseline: 25,000 people, or approximately 2,800 households at high risk. Reduction target: 700 households no
       longer at high risk). 367 additional families were resettled to safer locations with secure housing tenure. Target
       surpassed by 53%.
      Increased coverage of public and private assets against natural disasters. Although evidence of studies to reduce
     the District’s fiscal vulnerability to disasters were provided during the ICR workshop, these studies were not
     delivered, disseminated or used in planning before Project closing, and therefore no contribution to the
     achievement of the PDO was registered. Target not met.
    The expected intermediate outcome of the development of a risk-financing strategy to face the fiscal impact of
     disasters was not achieved. The project did not deliver a strategy to reduce financial exposure to risks, nor did it
     favor the development of a market for catastrophe insurance. By project closing the two studies that would have
     been the basis for developing a strategy and an insurance market had not been shared with the Bank. Target not
     met.

Final (or overarching) Objective:
The Capital District of Bogotá’s reduced vulnerability to adverse natural events ;

    Reduction in identified population at high risk to 236,972 (Baseline: 604,000; Target: reduction to 480,000).
     Target surpassed by 51%.
    Reduction in estimated average annual loss: 3.9% No baseline or targets were set for this indicator in the PAD.
     Civil works were carried out to retrofit schools and kindergartens and to prevent landslides and flooding that
     overall reduced the intervened buildings’ vulnerability and potential losses. The probable maximum loss (PML) of
     a 1-in-100-year earthquake was estimated to decrease from 6.1 to 2.2 percent.

The PAD was clear about what the expected outcomes of this project were (p 6):
“The project will contribute to the District’s long-term program to save lives and reduce social, economic and financial
losses resulting from adverse natural events, including earthquakes, floods and landslides. By project completion,
physical vulnerability and financial exposure to adverse natural events should be measurably reduced in Bogotá. The
number of families living in prone-risk areas should have been reduced. Risk management and emergency response
capacity should have improved and the district government should be better capable of financing recovery from
adverse natural events affecting the city.”

Overall, the reported targets reached and the economic analysis outlined in section 5 of this ICRR, indicate that risk
mitigation interventions are likely to have reduced the District’s vulnerability and potential losses resulting from
adverse natural events.

The ICR does not discuss the issue of attribution. It is, however, indisputable that some of these outcomes are directly
attributable to the operation, such as e.g. the reduction of identified population at risk, both due to retrofitted public
buildings and due to resettlement to safer areas.


 5. Efficiency:
  Efficiency is rated Modest. The ICR reports that the project was assessed as efficient at design and ex-post results
show that it was efficient at closing only if the value of saved lives was included in the benefit flows.

A probabilistic cost-benefit analysis based on a catastrophe risk model was used in the ICR to assume a maximum
probable loss mitigation of 3.9% of the value of assets. Overall risk mitigation interventions are likely to have reduced
the District’s vulnerability and potential losses. However, modeling exercises done in connection with this project
focused on one single hazard (earthquakes) only and did not take into account the multiple scenarios that can emerge
from a combination of hazards. Precise analysis is difficult in large-scale disaster mitigation projects where costs are
definitive while benefits (largely derived from avoided loss) are probabilistic.

The cost-benefit analysis carried out in the ICR made a number of assumptions that compensate for the lack of
information on the value of assets, mitigated loss and lack of information on demographic trends for the benefited
population (resettled families, children in intervened schools, etc.). One key aspect was the value of lives saved as a
result of the works. The valuation of life in the ICR is partial and modest in that it presents a value of life calculated
from a worker’s labor market contribution. The ICR made two different valuations: lives saved by reinforcing schools
(i.e. children’s lives saved) and lives saved by resettling families that were living in non-mitigable areas of Bogotá.

The economic analysis shows that if only the value of the assets were considered, the project could not be considered
efficient. However, when the avoided loss of lives was included in the analysis, it showed that the project had been
efficient. The Benefit-Cost ratio is lower than 1 in all scenarios if only the avoided losses in terms of assets are
included, ranging in values between 0.31 and 0.62. However, when the value of saved lives is included, the project
delivers ratios of at least 10 times the value of its costs. The Benefit-Cost ratio including lives saved ranges from
10.66 with a discount rate of 3% to 15.39 with discount rates of 12%.

The project also yields solid Internal Rates of Return (IRR) and sizable Net Present Values (NPV) if avoided loss of
lives is included. The IRR range from -15.8 percent when excluding the value of saved lives to 15.9 percent when the
value of saved lives is included in the analysis. The NPV is negative for scenarios excluding the value of saved lives; it
ranges between US$ -14.63 million to as much as 36.34 million. When saved lives are included, the NPVs are positive
and substantial: The smallest NPV of US$ 59.66 million is found with the highest discount rate (12%) and maximum
retrofitting values (15 and 60 percent for hospitals and schools respectively), and with a lower discount rate of 3% and
minimum values for retrofitting are assumed (8 and 30 percent for hospitals and schools respectively), the NPV can
be as high as US$ 327 million.

The disbursements to the project were slow and erratic; for more than four years, i.e. between 2006 and 2010, only
one single disbursement was made for US$ 6.9 million in 2007. Two further disbursements were made in June 2011
for 12.3 million and in December 2012 for 7.9 million. The disbursed amount at closure was thus only US$ 38.5
million. Two final disbursements made after project closing took the balance to US$ 63.46 million. In total (i.e.
including the Borrower contribution), the project spent over US$ 147 million with a greater contribution from the
Borrower than anticipated, but with a significant reduction in hospital completion.

Implementation problems related to the retrofitting of hospitals led to changes in project plans, implementation delays
and ultimately, in the cancellation of funds. During project design, different types of buildings had been lumped into
one and the same category as “critical facilities”, failing to take into account the considerable differences between the
different types of buildings and the great variety in their design needs for retrofitting. Retrofitting a hospital is
substantially different from retrofitting a school or even a fire station, due to the very different design needs of a
hospital for gas pipes, tubing, sewage, storage of toxic chemicals, etc. The original target was to retrofit 25 hospitals
which was revised down to 18 at the MTR in 2009. It became clear that instead of trying to retrofit hospitals, it would
be easier and more economical to construct new hospital buildings. The target was set to nine newly constructed
hospitals, which was revised down to seven. Two of the hospitals were constructed in the end. The project was
extended twice to allow for the finalization of the hospital constructions, but when it became clear that they were not
going to be finished, milestones were introduced and when these were not met, the financing was cancelled. At
project closing, a total of US$ 16.5 million unused funds were cancelled from the original loan due to the
non-completion of the hospital retrofittings/constructions of new hospitals.

Previously, a total of US$ 2.45 million had been cancelled due to misprocurement on the contracting related to the
retrofitting of five kindergartens.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
   Relevance of Objective is rated High as the project’s objectives are very well aligned with both national strategies
and the Bank’s CPS for Colombia 2010-2014. Relevance of Design is rated Substantial as the project’s components
and activities are relevant to- and consistent with the stated objective and the causal chain between funding and
outcomes is clear and convincing. The Efficacy of achieving each of the two objectives is rated Substantial and
Modest as the project reached and surpassed many of its targets and the ICR gives a plausible account of achieving
“reduced vulnerability in key sectors, despite the implementation challenges in the hospital sector. Efficiency is rated
Modest; the various and solid economic analyses presented show that the project was efficient when taking the value
of saved lives into account. However, the project experienced implementation delays, slow and erratic disbursement
and cancellation of a significant amount of funds. Overall, the Outcome Rating is Moderately Satisfactory , as the
shortcomings in the operation’s relevance, achievement of its objectives and in its efficiency are considered to be
moderate.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  The ICR is internally inconsistent regarding the project’s Risk to Development Outcome Rating, in that it is rated
Moderate in the text (ICR p 20), while rated Low in table C1 in the Ratings Summary of Performance Rating.

The Risk to Development Outcome is rated Moderate, as the Capital District of Bogotá is continuing to implement a
long-term plan for vulnerability reduction. There are several factors contributing to the overall sustainability of project
outcomes: (i) the Capital District of Bogotá provided a large counterpart contribution of more than half (56 percent) of
the total investments in the project; (ii) institutional sustainability and ownership from the participating agencies, where
the project is aligned with the District’s long term objectives for vulnerability reduction; and (iii) the technical
sustainability and maintenance of the retrofitted and constructed buildings.

Since the project did not deliver a strategy to reduce financial exposure to risks, nor favor the development of a
market for catastrophe insurance, risks related to financial loss due to adverse natural events remain as they were
prior to project intervention.

There are some risks related to degradation and underutilization of sensitization programs, as risk information could
be outdated if it is not regularly maintained. However, there are indications of a strong emphasis on capacity building
and increased coordination among the relevant agencies. Furthermore, voluntary relocation and minimizing
resettlement to (the now freed-up) high-risk locations represent a major social and economic challenge. However,
preventive planning, if adequately reinforced, may continue to mitigate these risks.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design was innovative and responded adequately to the client’s needs. There was close
collaboration between the Bank and the Borrower during project preparation and the project design, i.e.
components and activities were generally well thought through and relevant to achieve the intended objectives.
However, as mentioned in section 3.b, the project design failed to account for the considerable differences
between the various types of “critical facility” buildings within the category of and the great diversity in their design
needs for retrofitting. Retrofitting a hospital is substantially different from retrofitting a school or even a fire station.
The project design also overlooked a critical legal and institutional obstacle to coordination in the health sector by
not taking into account the implications of recent administrative decentralization; the hospitals were independent
entities and not managed by a central health/hospital administrative unit.

Furthermore, there were some shortcomings with the results framework. Two of the three indicators (PAD p 12)
identified for Component D Risk Prevention and Awareness, namely (b) the proportion of poor households aware
of safe building techniques as a result of sensitization campaigns; and (c) the general awareness of the
population, were not reflected in the Results Framework. No other indicators were substituted to replace the two
indicators specified in the PAD. As a result, the degree to which the project contributed to awareness raising was
not measured beyond the number of training courses held and the number of people trained.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    15 supervision missions were undertaken throughout the 8 years of project implementation, i.e. two per year
except in 2012, when only one supervision mission was conducted. Supervision missions were timely and the
MTR resulted in necessary project adjustments through a major project restructuring. According to the ICR (p 21),
procurement and financial matters were also adequately supervised. Supervision of safeguards was necessary
due to the unwillingness of some families to resettle. No negative social or environmental impacts as a result of
the project were identified at project closure. The Bank’s team made significant efforts to compensate for design
flaws related to the challenges faced in the health sector; two project extensions were granted to facilitate
completion of the hospitals under construction and milestones were introduced to measure progress. The project
did not manage to complete the construction of the hospitals despite these efforts, however, and funds were
cancelled accordingly, by the Bank team.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:
     The Government of the Capital District of Bogotá was highly committed to this project and to the achievement
of its PDO, demonstrated both by their concerted efforts to reduce the District’s vulnerability to disasters while
strengthening key agencies and the District System for Prevention and Response to Emergencies (SPDAE), and
by the high proportion of project fund provided by the Government (56%). As reported in the ICR (p 22), although
the project experienced delays due to personnel turnover and implementation arrangements were limited by legal
institutional frameworks (regarding the retrofitting of hospitals), the priority this project was given by the
Government facilitated resolution to critical constraints.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    There were several Implementing Agencies, but they are not assessed individually in the ICR. The ICR reports
that the different performance levels of the Implementing Agencies were generally satisfactory. Delays in loan
effectiveness led the District to proactively implement activities using their own funds to speed up project
implementation, which indicates both commitment and skill. In the intermediate phase of the project (around
2009), the project experienced an increased implementation pace and performance which led to the achievement
of most of the intended outcomes. However, management and institutional coordination shortcomings prevented
the delivery of health subcomponent products and activities according to the original schedule, despite
restructurings to extend the closing date and revisit health subcomponent targets.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E design was generally sound; relevant and measurable key indicators for the expected outcomes were
identified and the Results Framework is clear and realistic, despite some shortcomings. In the PAD’s text (p12), two of
the three indicators identified for Component D Risk Prevention and Awareness, namely (b) the proportion of poor
households aware of safe building techniques as a result of sensitization campaigns; and (c) the general awareness
of the population, were not reflected in the Results Framework; i.e. there were no indicators in the RF to capture
these. As a result, the degree to which the project contributed to awareness raising was not measured beyond the
number of training courses held and the number of people trained. The ICR correctly points out that one of the two
PDO indicators lacked baseline and targets, as did some of the intermediate outcome indicators. Furthermore, the
indicator for number of affected families in high risk areas were expressed in population figures, not in number of
households (as reported by the project). The MTR missed the opportunity to address these inconsistencies in the
M&E design.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Despite some challenges at the initial implementation phase when appropriate data for the PDO indicators were not
always systematically collected, overall M&E is reported to have been carried out effectively. When it became clear
that the retrofitting and construction of hospital buildings were not going to meet the targets, a separate indicator to
measure progress for construction of hospitals were established. This is an indication of active and appropriate use of
the M&E system during implementation.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR (p 9) reports that monitoring reports were used appropriately for project management and for the
preparation of the final report. For example, M&E data was used to track project progress and project outcomes
throughout the implementation period, and were also used to initiate adjustments, like e.g. the decision to construct
new hospital buildings rather than retrofit old ones, and decision to introduce milestones for the construction of the
hospitals when it became clear that progress was too slow.

Furthermore, a project Impact Evaluation was commissioned and conducted, but the results were not clear before the
submission of the ICR.


M&E Quality Rating: Substantial
11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Project was classified as Category B and triggered the following policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP
4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OP:BP 4.12), and Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 11.03). The 2009
Restructuring allowed the construction of new buildings when these were more cost-effective than retrofitting and
therefore the environmental and social safeguards were updated to reflect this change.

The discussion of Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 11.03) is not relevant, as no buildings with cultural heritage
value were retrofitted.

Environmental Safeguards:
The MTR and the ISRs found that the project promoted positive impacts on the environment by raising environmental
awareness through social networks, linking over 40 organizations to encourage and coordinate prevention activities in
hazard-prone areas.
The environment management activities included: (a) Identification, evaluation and monitoring of risk; (b) risk
mitigation works (but no specific examples are given); (c) institutional strengthening activities including environmental
management; and (d) prevention and awareness of natural hazards.

Some construction related environment impacts were registered due to the civil works carried out, but these were not
expected to be significant or irreversible.

Despite initial weak institutional capacity to enforce environmental regulations, the project is reported to have been
successful in providing technical support for establishing environmental guidelines and in strengthening the
institutional capacity to enforce environmental regulations.

Social Safeguards:
Social Safeguards compliance is considered to be generally satisfactory. The Government of the Capital District of
Bogotá’s procedures, regulation policies, and institutional capacity were adequate to implement resettlement
processes to the Bank’s satisfaction (ICR p 10). 1,067 households were resettled,

Concerning social impacts in terms of land or property acquisition in other sectors than the resettlement of families in
high-risk areas, health was the only sector in which such impacts were identified. An Abbreviated Resettlement Action
Plan, for less than 200 people affected, was prepared for minor impacts. In addition guidance for how to prepare for
and mitigate social impacts were included into the Project Manual in 2009.

The ICR (p 10, para 44) states that the fact that not a single complaint has been filed in any of the implemented
projects is evidence that a good relationship with the affected community was maintained. However, on page 21, para
83, it is stated that supervision of safeguards was necessary “due to unwillingness by some families to resettle”. No
further explanation is provided for why this was not registered as a complaint, nor is any account given as to how the
matter was resolved.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management
Seven financial audit reports were issued during the life of the project , the first two reports, FYs 2007 and 2008, with
unqualified (no exception) opinions, and the last 5 with qualified opinions. The details of these are attached to the
Minutes from the meeting with the project team.

The District Secretariat of Finance’s experience in financial management contributed to stable project management
throughout implementation. However, there were some shortcomings in the financial management of the health
sub-component activities towards the very end of the project. Shortcomings included: (i) lack of separate accounting
records or subsidiary ledger for project activities to avoid financial information inconsistencies; (ii) payments were not
processed within the target of 28 days, affecting project implementation; and (iii) deficiencies in the supervision of the
works financed by the project and significant delays in project implementation.

A low disbursement ratio from the Bank’s side is also likely to have affected the project’s financial performance. Lack
of disbursements and an early repayment in the first four years of the project is related to the municipality’s cash
surplus, partially due to the issuance of a bond. On the Government’s side, lower disbursements in the aftermath of
the global financial crisis was a strategy to reduce the financial risk related to potential currency volatility. When the
right financial moment came for the municipality to disburse all the expenditures made up to December 2010, the
GoCDB disbursed US$ 31.9 million at once.

Procurement
A misprocurement case on the contracting related to the retrofitting of five kindergartens was detected and addressed
in 2009. This was an isolated case, and the ICR reports that no major fiduciary issues requiring Government or Bank
attention emerged throughout the project period, as corroborated by audit reports and procurement post-reviews.

The procurement unit at the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was assessed to have adequate capacity to comply with
the Bank’s procurement standards and procedures. There were, however, some shortcomings related to the health
sector sub-component: i) delays in the implementation of procurement processes; (ii) one contractor was awarded
several works, which placed at risk the achievement of targets within the agreed time frame; and (iii) weaknesses in
the monitoring and control of ongoing contracts. At project closing, US$ 16.5 million in unused funds were cancelled
from the original loan. The ICR does not report any further corrective actions taken.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR does not report on any unintended impacts.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Design Lessons
1.   Development of monitoring and evaluation systems and sound economic analysis for Disaster Risk
     Management (DRM) projects is critical not only to measure results but also to draw well -grounded lessons.
     Although the importance of prevention and mitigation is broadly recognized today, there is still a need to have
     good evaluations of DRM efforts to ensure their prioritization in a context of budget constraints and competing
     priorities. Evaluation is even more critical in projects with innovative approaches and financing for mitigation.
     Having specific indicators on estimated average annual loss, financial/insurance coverage of public and private
     assets, quality of training and integration of knowledge in beneficiaries’ daily activities, and gender participation
     and inclusion will greatly benefit project evaluation. Identification of good practices will strengthen results of
     future efforts, while economic analysis of mitigation investments will help show whether such investments were
     viable from a business view point.
2.   Targets should be established realistically in terms of institutional and local market conditions , considering
     local development plans and policy framework for implementation. Pre-feasibility studies and designs with
     clear financial costs readily available at project approval are important for effective implementation.
3.   Projects involving retrofitting or reconstruction of hospitals should take into account functional and
     non-structural risk-reduction measures that require shifting patients and equipment around the city, which may
     impinge on the access to health care by entire neighborhoods while construction work takes place. This also
     creates sensitive situations in which the spread of disease or the worsening of medical conditions by current
     patients may arise both as a result of the move and exposure to medical waste.

     Implementation Lessons
4.   The establishment of a technical project unit responsible for project activities in each implementing agency
     could facilitate the implementation of civil works by: (i) ensuring its completion to satisfaction; (ii) better
     coordinating with permit-granting agencies and utilities companies to avoid unnecessary delays; (iii) improving
     internal management, governance and transparency; and (iv) facilitating the supervision, monitoring and
     evaluation by the overall project coordinating agency to avoid pitfalls.

     DRM Lessons
5.   DRM capacity building has the potential to contribute to ownership and sustainability of results . When
     communities are included in the decisions and processes affecting their lives, sustainability of results is
     enhanced by the likelihood that a more educated and engaged civil society will demand attention to DRM
     issues despite government changes and staff turnover.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written and gives a good account of all relevant aspects of the operation. The quality of analysis is
good and results orientated with a thorough understanding of M&E processes, including indicators and result
frameworks. The ICR is internally consistent, with the exception of a couple of minor issues (slight differences in
figures probably due to rounding up and down of decimals, a typing error of the total project cost in a table, and
inconsistent accounts with regard to issues related to social safeguards). The lessons presented are based on good
evidence and analysis and are formulated in a generalized manner so as to facilitate swift uptake by future operations.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
