Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4735-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Maranhão Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF MARANHÃO 
 
Dated February 15, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4735-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 2006, between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE 
OF MARANHÃO (the Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
 
(a) 
"Approved POA" means each approved annual operating plan referred to 
in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“Area A Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to finance 
Community Subprojects in the 80 Municipalities with the lowest HDI-M; 
 
(c) 
“Area B Grants” means grants to be made by the Borrower to finance 
Community Subprojects in Municipalities other than the Municipalities referred to in (b) 
above; 
(d) “COFIEX” 
means 
Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
,
the 
Guarantor’s Commission of External Borrowings, within the Guarantor’s Ministry of 
Planning, Budget and Management, and governed by the Guarantor’s Decree (
Decreto)
 
No. 3502, of June 12, 2000; 
 
(e) 
"Community Association" means a civil association formed by members 
of a community (
associação civil
)
duly established in the Borrower's territory in accordance 
with the Guarantor's laws, and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
for participating in the Project; 
 
(f)
 
"Community Subproject" means any investment referred to in Part A of 
the Project
 
to be carried out by a Community Association utilizing the proceeds of a Grant, 
and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 (j) 
“GEPLAN” 
means 
Gerência de Estado de Planejamento, Orçamento e 
Gestão,
 the Borrower’s unit responsible for planning, budget and management; 
(k) 
"Grant" means an Area A Grant or an Area B Grant; 
 
(l) 
"Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Community Association providing for a Grant; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(m) 
“HDI” means the Borrower’s human development index, which is 
measured by the Guarantor’s 
Instituto de Pesquisas Econômicas Aplicadas
 - IPEA on the 
basis of the indicators for health, education and income in the Borrower’s territory; 
 
(n) 
“HDI-M” means the human development index of a Municipality, which is 
measured by 
Fundação João Pinheiro
 on the basis of the indicators for health, education 
and income in such Municipality’s  territory; 
 
(o) 
"MIS" means the Project monitoring and information system referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
"Municipal Council" means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations in a Municipality, as provided in the 
Operational Manual; 
 
(q) 
“Municipality” means any municipality in the Borrower’s territory, 
except the Municipality of São Luís; 
 
(r) 
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
(s) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part 
A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(u) 
"STU" means State Technical Unit (
Núcleo Estadual de Projetos 
Especiais
)
within the Borrower’s management unit of agriculture and rural development 
(
Gerência de Estado de Agricultura, Pecuária e Desenvolvimento Rural – GEAGRO
), 
and which is the Project coordination and technical unit established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 15,605, of June 11, 1997. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty million Dollars 
($30,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that COFIEX has authorized the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date, which shall not be a date beyond the date authorized by 
COFIEX. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 (iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) 
Parts A, B and D of the Project through STU with the assistance of the Municipal Councils 
and the Municipalities; and (ii) Part C of the Project through GEPLAN, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, administrative, 
agricultural, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, as applicable, carry out, and cause to be carried out, the 
Project in accordance with the provisions and/or recommendations of: 
(i) 
the Approved POA; 
(ii) 
the plan, furnished by the Borrower to the Bank on October 30, 
2003, for the development of indigenous peoples carrying out 
Community Subprojects, or benefiting in any manner from the 
carrying out of the Project, with the assistance of the Guarantor’s 
Fundação Nacional do Índio
 (FUNAI); and 
(iii) 
a manual, satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational Manual), 
which shall contain the policies and procedures for the carrying 
out, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including, inter alia: 
(A) the procedures for preparation, prioritization and approval of 
Community Subprojects, including environmental criteria and 
procedures for screening and management of such Subprojects, 
as provided in the environmental management plan furnished by 
the Borrower to the Bank on October 30, 2003, and the expected 
contribution of such Subprojects to a positive impact on the HDI; 
(B) the criteria for eligibility of Community Associations to 
participate in the Project, (C) the organization and membership 
of Municipal Councils; (D) the responsibilities and functions of 
the Municipal Councils in the selection of Community 
Associations and Community Subprojects; (E) the procedures 
and criteria for the provision of Area A Grants and Area B 
Grants; (F) the model form of Grant Agreements; (G) the Project 
procurement and financial management requirements and 
Page  8
-
7
-
procedures; and (H) the indicators to be used for Project 
monitoring and evaluation.  In case of any inconsistency between 
a
provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the 
provision of this Agreement will prevail. 
(c) 
The Borrower shall maintain the STU, during Project implementation, 
with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
establish and maintain a Project monitoring and information system, 
satisfactory to the Bank (the MIS), to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an on-going 
basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manual, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date, the baseline evaluation study 
 
referred to in Part D.4 of the Project; 
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review such report with the Bank promptly after its preparation, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
by October 30 of each year during Project implementation, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plans and budget, satisfactory to the 
Page  9
-
8
-
Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be carried out during the next succeeding 
year and the respective sources of funding therefor; and 
 
(b) 
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's budget by its 
Assembléia
 
Legislativa
 (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each year in question. 
 
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date 
and yearly thereafter during the period of Project implementation, the results and 
recommendations of an assessment, to be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, on the cost structure and effectiveness of Community Subprojects, including 
an evaluation of the physical performance, and cost comparisons and procurement 
procedures thereof; 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such 
assessments; and 
 
(c) 
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by 
the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph (b) above, as shall be
 
necessary for the efficient implementation of Community Subprojects, such action to be 
taken in a manner and within a timetable agreed upon during such review. 
 
Section 3.06.  In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
not later than March 31 of each year during the carrying out of such Part 
C, review with the Bank the Borrower’s proposed program of public expenditures related to 
the Project for the next succeeding year and its impact on poverty reduction in the 
Borrower’s territory; and  
 
(b) 
take into account, in the carrying out of such program, the Bank’s views 
thereon. 
 
Section 3.07.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  10
-
9
-
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain, as part of the MIS, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of 
 
statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
Page  11
-
10
-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the 
case may be, are included in the audit for each fiscal year (or 
other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section.
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the 
FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the Loan, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report; and 
(iv) 
presents projections, for a period until the end of the fiscal year 
following the date of the FMR, of physical progress, 
procurement activities, and sources and uses of funds in respect 
of the Project. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
Page  12
-
11
-
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank the terms of reference for the 
baseline evaluation study, and the overall Project evaluation framework, as required for the 
impact evaluation to be carried out under Part D.4 of the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by the 
Guarantor's Central Bank. 
 
Section 5.03. The date May 16, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Manager of GEPLAN is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  13
-
12
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C.  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Gerência de Estado de Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão - GEPLAN 
 
Avenida Jerônimo de Albuquerque s/n 
 
65051-200 São Luís, Maranhão 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-98) 227-5645 
 
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 225-4022 
Page  14
-
13
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
STATE OF MARANHÃO 
 
By /s/ José Reinaldo Carneiro Tavares 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.  
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Grants:  
 
75% of the expenditures  
 
for goods, works and  
services for a 
Community Subproject   
 
(a) Area A Grants 
16,000,000 
 
(b) Area B Grants 
10,600,000 
 
(2) Consultants' services 
800,000 
 
84% 
 
under Parts B, C and 
 
D
of the Project 
 
(3)  Training under Parts                      600,000 
 
          100% 
 
B, C and D of the 
 
Project 
 
(4) Administrative Costs: 
 
(a) incremental operational  
 
costs 
100,000 
 
       20%  
 
(b) Project supervision and 
300,000 
 
50% 
 
monitoring costs 
Page  16
-
15
-
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(5)  Fee  
300,000 
   Amount due  
 
under Section  
 
2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated  
1,300,000
TOTAL 30,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Administrative Costs" means the 
operational costs (which would not have been incurred absent the Project) and the 
supervision and monitoring costs of the Project incurred by the STU under Part D of the 
Project (excluding expenditures for salaries and related benefits and for training). 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement, but 
in no case prior to June 30, 2003; 
 
(b) 
payments under a Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement shall have 
been entered into between the parties thereto; and 
 
(c) 
payments under a Grant for a Community Subproject costing more than 
the equivalent of $50,000, unless the Bank shall have approved such Community 
Subproject. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower: 
 
(a) 
under contracts for goods or works costing less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 per contract;  
Page  17
-
16
-
(b) 
for services of individual consultants and consulting firms under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 and $100,000 equivalent per contract, respectively; and  
 
(c) 
for training and administrative costs. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month  period following the 
date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;
 
Page  18
-
17
-
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount 
of $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $8,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Page  20
-
19
-
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to foster an increase in the Borrower’s HDI, 
directly through a community-driven development approach, and indirectly by supporting 
the Borrower’s efforts to integrate, monitor and evaluate its overall investment program 
and policies cross-sectorally for greater effectiveness in poverty reduction. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Community Subprojects
Financing of demand driven projects (the Community Subprojects) in about 216 
Municipalities consisting, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) socio-economic infrastructure investments, such 
as community school construction, establishment of rural health posts, rural access road 
improvement, establishment of community day-care and community centers, installation of 
sanitation facilities, acquisition and utilization of distance learning equipment, 
establishment of training centers, installation of water systems and rural electrification; (b) 
production investments, such as small-scale agro-industry, handicrafts, irrigation schemes 
and tourism promotion; and (c) environmental investment, such as recycling, watershed 
protection, community forestry, non-timber forest products, and forest fire prevention 
equipment for community use. 
Part B
:
Institutional Development
1. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for Community Associations in, 
inter 
alia
,
organization and strengthening of such Associations, identification, preparation, and 
operation of Community Subprojects, and maintenance of the investments under such 
Subprojects. 
2. 
Carrying out of capacity-building programs for Municipal Councils and 
Community Associations, including provision of training on the role of Municipal 
Councils, the contents of the Operational Manual, evaluation and supervision of 
Community Subprojects, environmental assessment of such Subprojects, and participatory 
planning and financial management related to such Subprojects, and provision of 
computers to Municipal Councils to assist them in performing their functions under 
Community Subprojects. 
Page  23
-
22
-
3. 
Provision of on-the-job training and expert advice for the STU, Municipal 
Councils, and Community Associations on technical matters regarding preparation, 
execution and operation of Community Subprojects, including development of standard 
project designs, monitoring techniques and financial management. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance (through consultants’ services, studies and 
training) to GEPLAN for the implementation of the administrative and other reforms 
required for the modernization of the Borrower’s administrative and fiscal structure in the 
context of increasing the Borrower’s HDI. 
5. 
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Community 
Associations to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with respect to 
the carrying out of the Project among themselves and with other states in the northeast 
region of Brazil. 
Part C
:
State Governance and Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance (including training to the relevant staff) for the 
integration of the Borrower’s and Guarantor’s policies for poverty reduction in order to 
avoid duplication of actions, and the strengthening of the Borrower’s management capacity 
to better monitor the impact of its public expenditures to reduce poverty in rural areas. 
Part D
:
Project Administration
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision 
including, 
inter alia
:
1. 
the operation of the STU and its field offices related to Project implementation, 
including provision of training to the relevant staff; 
2. 
the establishment and operation of the MIS, including provision of training to the 
relevant staff; 
3. 
the design, development and carrying out of a campaign within the Borrower’s 
territory to disseminate information about the Project; and 
4. 
the carrying out of studies to assess the impact of the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
a
baseline evaluation study, annual physical performance reviews, a mid-term 
implementation review, and a comprehensive impact evaluation. 
Page  24
-
23
-
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2009 
1,250,000 
 
 
through May 15, 2021
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  26
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.  
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the 
following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be undertaken 
pursuant to this Part B.1: 
 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, 
whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always 
be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
 
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(
consórcio)
 of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case. 
 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale. 
2. National 
Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, goods estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, including, as 
a
form of such shopping, the bidding (
pregão
)
procurement system set forth in the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 10,520 of July 17, 2002. 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, works estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works costing $50,000 equivalent or less per contract under 
Community Subprojects to be carried out in scattered or remote areas, may be procured 
in accordance with procedures for community participation, acceptable to the Bank, as 
provided in paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines), all as set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
Page  28
-
27
-
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. 
S
uch plan shall be updated every twelve months during the execution of the 
Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan (as updated) as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a)  
With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Part B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods and the first contract for 
works to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Parts B.2 and B.3 
of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consulta
nts’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
Page  29
-
28
-
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of 
this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section
,
consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for routine assignments estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines: (a) shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines; or (b) may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior 
approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  
Such plan shall be updated every twelve months during the execution of the Project, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
Page  30
-
29
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.  
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of an individual 
consultant, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
qualifications and experience of all evaluated candidates, and the terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultant shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contract. 
3. Post 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D.
 
