                               Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/05/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: BRAZIL                                                    Project ID: P080830
Project: BR Maranhao Integrated: Rural Development                 Task Team Leader: Luis O. Coirolo
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 7, 2003                      IBRD Amount ($m): 30.00
Bank Approval: March 16, 2004                                      IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSER                                               Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)                 (100%)
Status: Lending                                                    Theme: Other rural development (P); Participation
                                                                   and civic engagement (P)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
Background:

In 2001, the most recent year for which household data exist, Maranhão was Brazil's second poorest state on a per
capita income basis. Using a poverty line of about a dollar a day, nearly 60 percent of Maranhenses are living in
poverty. Maranhão also has the second lowest Human Development Index (HDI), a combined measure of income
and equality, educational and health indicators, among all of Brazil's states. The lag in education is particularly
severe, with the average educational attainment (2.8 years) well below that of both the country and neighboring
Northeast states. Finally, Maranhao is Brazil's most rural state, and it is in the rural space where HDIs are the
lowest. The State's needs in terms of socio-economic infrastructure and services, and institutional capacity, are
commensurate with these indicative statistics.

The State Government of Maranhão has set a goal of increasing its HDI from 0.647 (in 2000) to 0.700 by the year
2007, and this provides the unifying theme for its multi-year investment plan (PPA 2004-07).                Although
ambitious, this goal is feasible based on the State's track record over the past decade. Since the 1990s Maranhão
has had a series of competent State Governments, and social indicators have increased faster than in most
Northeast states. The State has launched an innovative, decentralized form of government, dividing itself into 18
regional management units, and has been very active in attempting to change the culture of Brazil's state and local
governments away from clientelism and patronage, toward responsible service delivery to the population.

The Government has built its PPA on a strategic platform comprising six elements: (1) economic integration, (2)
competitiveness, (3) transformation of the economic base, (4) social inclusion, (5) construction of a knowledge
economy, and (6) environmental sustainability. All programs in the PPA are justified in relation to these six
principles, and programs across all sectors are then implemented by 18 regional executing agencies (gerências).
Priority programs are in education, health, water and sanitation, employment generation through local productive
clusters, technology, environmental preservation, and public sector management and planning. At the level of the
economy, in order to pusue these six strategic principles, the state is focusing private sector development along four
principal axes: agro-industry, tourism, construction, and mining/metallurgy.

The proposed project seeks to support the State Government in its effort to reduce poverty by increasing its HDI,
using a community-driven development (CDD) approach that has already proven successful in Maranhão under the
Bank-financed Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (RPAP, Ln. 4252-BR). While building on the institutional
foundations of the RPAP, the proposed project will improve on the experience by:

l   strengthening the cross-sectoral integration, monitoring, evaluation and results-based management of
    development efforts within Maranhão at the state, municipal and local levels;

                                                            2
                                                                                                                ISDS



l   better aligning the State's public expenditures with the PPA development priorities, while improving the
    effectiveness and targeting of expenditures;

l   introducing performance agreements between the State Government and municipalities, with special emphasis
    on targets for improving the various components of the HDI, and encouraging subproject identification and
    selection by beneficiaries according to the criteria of impact on municipal HDIs and environmental
    sustainability;

l   providing significantly more emphasis on education, health, culture, natural resource management and
    environmental sustainability;

l   taking advantage of opportunities to achieve stronger results through coordinated action, including piloting
    regional subprojects (involving several municipalities) to address environmental issues, and supporting
    productive subprojects which tackle critical gaps within a broader concept of local supply chains (arranjos
    produtivos locais); and

l   leveraging the skills, social capital and institutional arrangements developed under the RPAP project at the
    local and municipal levels to improve also the relevance, efficiency, environmental sustainability, targeting
    and outcomes of non-project investments in rural areas of Maranhão.

Project development objective:
The proposed project will help Maranhão to achieve the goal of reducing poverty by increasing its HDI from 0.647
to 0.700 by the year 2007, through: (a) strengthening the results-based management capacity at the State level for
planning, cross-sectoral integration, monitoring and evaluation of public policies and investments under
Maranhão's PPA; (b) supporting cross-sectoral integration of development actions at the municipal and local levels
through the design and implementation of integrated municipal development plans and the introduction of
State-municipal performance agreements;             (c) financing demand-driven community investments for
income-generation, health and sanitation, education, culture, the environmental management and other
investments impacting the HDI and environmental sustainability; and (d) strengthening municipal governance
through the participation of community associations and municipal councils in decisions that are directly related to
improvements in the living conditions of the rural poor, and through capacity-building focused on integration of
environmental sustainability issues in the decision-making process.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):

The total project cost is US$40 million, of which the Bank will finance US$30 million; the State of Maranhão,
US$6.4 million; and beneficiary communities, US$3.6 million, in cash or in-kind.

Component 1 ­ Community Subprojects (US$36 million or 90% of total project cost) will support community
matching grants for approximately 1,700 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, education, health, culture,
productive, environmental and other investments aimed at raising HDIs. All 216 municipalities in Maranhão
(other than Saõ Luis) will be covered by this component, because of the importance of encouraging cross-sectoral
integration throughout the State, getting all municipalities to focus on the HDIs, and strengthening local and
municipal institutional arrangements. However about 60% of total component cost will be concentrated in the 80
municipalities with the lowest HDIs.

Component 2 - Institutional Development (US$2 million) will finance technical assistance and training to
increase the capacity of implementing entities including the CMDIs, community associations, GEAGRO and
GEPLAN.

Component 3 - Horizontal Integration           (US$1 million) will finance technical assistance to strengthen the
results-based management capacity of the State Government to plan, integrate, monitor and evaluate public
policies and investments for poverty reduction, and to improve the alignment of public expenditures with the

                                                          3
                                                                                                              ISDS


State's development priorities.

Component 4 - Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1 million) will finance
costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and coordination, including supervision, monitoring and impact
evaluation.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
While the project would indirectly benefit many of the 2.7 million people living in the rural space, in 216
municipalities throughout the State of Maranhão, as a result of better cross-sectoral integration and targeting of
development activities, it would directly reach about 540,000 people through some 1,700 community sub-projects
(about 20% of the population living in the `rural space'.     Sixty percent of total subproject resources would be
concentrated in the 80 municipalities (with a total rural population of 1.1 million) which have the lowest HDIs. In
each of these municipalities, an indicative budget envelope averaging US$270,000 would be available over the
four-year period. The remaining 136 municipalities would be allocated indicative budget envelopes of US$79,000.
For both of these groups, additional non-project resources would be mobilized under the local-level integration
pursued by the CMDIs.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                       Policy                                             Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                             Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                     Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                      Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                        Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                    Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                     Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                            Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                                Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                     Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                          Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environment: An EMP was prepared based on a series of meetings with current and former personnel from the
State Management Unit for the Environment (GEMA), extensive discussions with NEPE staff, the analysis of
technical documents regarding the environment in Maranhão, and field visits to potential beneficiary communities.
The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification. An Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet
(ISDS) has been prepared and both the ISDS and EMP will be reviewed by the LCSES Quality Assurance Team

                                                          4
                                                                                                                ISDS


prior to appraisal. Environmental Checklists ­incorporated into the Project Operational Manual under the
predecessor project RPAP ­ have been adapted and updated for the proposed project, for use in subproject
preparation by potential beneficiary community associations. These checklists would be completed by community
associations, with assistance from a technical specialist when necessary, to identify potential adverse
environmental impacts from subproject investments and methods to mitigate them.

The EMP includes a representative sample of RPAP subprojects and indicates that, due to their small scale, the
likelihood of significant adverse environmental impact is very small. This list will be updated and discussed with
GEMA representatives, and disseminated to Municipal Councils, Community Associations and environmental
NGOs as part of the project idssemination campaign, before subprojects are actually selected and implemented. In
the few cases where subproject investments could generate a localized negative impact, these would be detected in
the Environmental Checklist and actions taken to address such impacts.

Indigenous Peoples: An indigenous population of about 19,000 (about 0.3 percent of total state population) is
distributed across 17 indigenous lands in Maranhão, all of which have been officially demarcated by the National
Indigenous Foundation (FUNAI). The most numerous group ­ Araibóia ­ has 3,292 inhabitants and resides in the
municipality of Amarante. Cana Brava Guajajara ­ situated within the municipalities of Barra do Corda and
Grajaú ­ is the second-most populous group, with 3,143 inhabitants.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A, see #1a above.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A, see #1a above.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
N/A, see #1a above.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues

Environmental Assessment (see 5.1 and 5.2 above)

An Environmental Management Plan (EMP), based on the environmental legislation in Maranhão and consistent
with Bank safeguard policies, identifies three lines of action for the proposed project: (i) control and minimization
of negative environmental impacts of individual subprojects to be financed; (ii) addition of subprojects aimed at
conservation/preservation of the environment, and the enhanced integration of environmental awareness within all
subprojects, as well as the piloting of regional subprojects which cut across several municipalities to address
common issues (e.g., regional watershed management in the Vale do Magu and protection activities in the Parque
Mirador); and (iii) systematic and comprehensive training, over the course of the proposed project, for all
stakeholders. Specifically, all financed subprojects would first be classified according to the potential for adverse
environmental impact, using various diagnostic tools (e.g., environmental checklist, participative assessment).
Mitigating measures would then correspond to the identified risk. Standard subproject designs (projetos padrão)
would use technologies and specifications which protect, recover, improve or conserve (as needed) environmental
resources. Demonstration projects would be implemented in selected communities and municipalities as examples
of such environmentally-friendly technologies and practices.

Indigenous Peoples

While the RPAP was itself based on principles of social inclusion for all potential beneficiaries in the rural space,
the project made special efforts to stimulate the participation of indigenous populations, particularly through
training events aimed at the construction of sustainable development strategies for these communities. To this end,

                                                          5
                                                                                                                ISDS


some 28 subprojects were proposed and financed in indigenous communities, benefiting approximately 10 percent
of the total indigenous population. This outreach to the indigenous population proved successful, in that through a
demand-driven process statewide, they were able to capture a level of subprojects that was three times their relative
weight in the overall population.

In compliance with OD 4.20, a draft plan for the participation of indigenous peoples in the project has been
prepared by the State. The Plan benefits from the experience of the RPAP and discussions with NGOs involved in
this subject, and is available to the public through NEPE's website (www.nepe.gov.br).

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

Maranhão has a rich set of NGOs and other representatives of civil society, many of which were consulted during
project preparation.    Among these are:        Associação Brasileira das Rádios Comunitárias Maranhão, Cáritas
Brasileira (Regional Maranhão), Coletivo das Mulheres Trabalhadoras Rurais do Maranhão e Pastoral da Mulher,
AMAVIDA, Instituto do Homem, Associação das Comunidades Negras Rurais Quilombolas do Maranhão
(ACONERUQ), Sítio Ecológico Praia do Barco, Federação dos Trabalhadores na Agricultura do Estado do
Maranhão (FETAEMA) e Sociedade Maranhense de Defesa dos Direitos Humanos (SMDDH).                             These
consultations touched on the respective coverage areas and objectives of the respective organizations throughout
the State, their past and present experience working in partnership with both government and non-governmental
organizations, their institutional capacity and their evaluation of the RPAP and suggestions for improvements
which could be incorporated into the proposed project.

During the preparation of the EMP, consultations were held with several relevant local NGOs. The final copy of
the EMP was distributed to them as well as to key government agencies. The EMP is also available on NEPE's
website (www.nepe.ma.gov.br).

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
          projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
          issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                            Expected            Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                                      9/26/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                               10/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                                10/30/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                           Expected            Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank

                                                     6
                                                                                                    ISDS


Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              10/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          10/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           10/30/2003

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Luis O. Coirolo
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                                        November 5, 2003
Sector Manager/Director               John Redwood                                       November 5, 2003

