                                               Documentof
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                                ReportNo: 28647-BR




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                   ONA

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$30.0MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       STATEOF MARANHAO

                                   WITH THE GUARANTEEOF

                           THE FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOFBRAZIL

                                                  FORA

      MARANHAOINTEGRATED PROGRAM: RURALPOVERTYREDUCTION

                                                PROJECT


                                              April 23,2004




BrazilCountry Management Unit
EnvironmentallyandSociallySustainableDevelopmentSectorManagement Unit
LatinAmerica and CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

            CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal)

     Currency Unit    =    Real (R$)
           R$1.00     =    US$0.34
          US$l.OO     =     R$2.90
                    FISCAL YEAR
               January 1- December 31

        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
BB                         Bank of Brazil
BN                         Bank of the Northeast
C A                        Community Association
CAS                        World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CAF                        Casu da Agricultura Familiar (Family FarmSupport Local
                           Agency)
CDD                        Community-Driven Development
CMDRS                      Municipal Council for Sustainable Rural Development
DLIS                       Local Integrated Sustainable Development
FUMAC                      Municipal Community Scheme
GDH                        State Management Unit for Human Development
GEAGRO                     State Management Unit for Agriculture, Livestock and
                           Rural Development
GEMA                       State Management Unit for the Environment and Natural
                           Resources
GEPLAN                     State Management Unitfor Planning, Budget and
                           Management
GEVIDA                     StateManagement Unitfor Quality of Life
GOB                        FederalGovernment of Brazil
GR                         Gergncias Regionais (Regional Administrative Units )
HDI                        United Nations Human Development Index
IBAMA                      FederalEnvironmental Agency
IBGE                       Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
MIS                        Management InformationSystem
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
NEPE                       State Special Projects Unit/GEAGRO
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
NRDPPAPP                   Bank-financed Northeast Rural Development Program
PAC                        State Community Scheme
POA                        Annual Operating Plan
PMDI                       Municipal Plan for IntegratedDevelopment
PPA                        Multi-year Government Investment Plan
PRONAF                     Brazilian Federal Programto Support Family Agriculture
R-NRDP                     Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program
RPAP                       Rural Poverty Alleviation ProjectsProgram
RPRP                       Rural Poverty Reduction ProjectsProgram
SOE                        Statement o f Expenditures
STR                        Rural Workers' Union
STU                        State Technical Unit
TA                         Technical Assistance

        Vice President:  David de Ferranti
      Country Director:  Vinod Thomas
       Sector Director:  John Redwood
     Task Team Leader:   Luis 0.Coirolo




                       Page ii

                                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                Brazil
                  MaranhPoIntegrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project



                                                            CONTENTS


   Project Financing Data...............................................................................................      1

   A Project Development Objective
    .
           1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .................................                 2

   B Strategic Context
    .
                                                                                                                             3
           2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................................................
           1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project .................................................
                                                                                                                             4
           3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................             5

   C Project DescriptionSummary
    .
                                                                                                                              8
           2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ....................................
           1. Project components .....................................................................................
                                                                                                                              8

           4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .....................................................
           3. Benefits and target population ........................................................................         9
                                                                                                                              9

   D Project Rationale
    .
                                                                                                                             12
           2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies .............
           1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection ..........................................
                                                                                                                             13

           4. Indicationsof borrower commitment and ownership ..............................................
           3. Lessons learned and reflected inproposed project design .........................................              13

           5. Value added of Bank support in this project ........................................................           15
                                                                                                                             15

   E Summary Project Analyses
    .
                                                                                                                             15
           2. Financial .................................................................................................
           1. Economic ................................................................................................
                                                                                                                             16
                                                                                                                             17
           4. Institutional ..............................................................................................
           3. Technical .................................................................................................
                                                                                                                             17
           5. Environmental ..........................................................................................       18
           6. Social ...................................................................................................     19
           7 Safeguardpolicies .......................................................................................
             .                                                                                                               21

   F Sustainability and Risks
    .
           2. Critical risks .............................................................................................
           1. Sustainability ............................................................................................    22
                                                                                                                             23
           3. Possible controversial aspects .........................................................................       24

   G MainLoan Conditions
     .
            1. Effectiveness conditions ...............................................................................      24

   H Compliance with BankPolicies ...............................................................................
     .                                                                                                                       24



This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                .
lwithoutWorld Bank authorization                         .

Annexes

Annex 1.   ProjectDesignSummary
Annex 2.   DetailedProject Description
Annex 3.   EstimatedProject Costs
Annex 4.   EconomicAnalysis
Annex 5.   FinancialSummary
Annex 6.   Procurement and DisbursementArrangements
Annex 7.   ProjectProcessingBudgetand Schedule
Annex 8.   Documentsinthe Project File
Annex 9.   Statementof Loansand Credits
Annex 10.  Countryat aGlance
Annex 11.  Evaluationof the BrazilianExperience with RuralPoverty Reduction
Annex 12.  IndigenousPeoples' ParticipationPlan
Annex 13.  EnvironmentalManagementPlan
Annex 14.  State of Maranhiio DevelopmentAgenda




                                           Page iv

                                                              Brazil
                          Maranhiio Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project

                                                Project Appraisal Document

                                               Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                                 Brazil Country Management Unit


 Date: April 23, 2004                                        Task Team Leader: Luis 0.Coirolo
 Country Director: Vinod Thomas                               Sector Director: John Redwood
 Project ID: PO80830              I Sector: Agriculture       Program Objective Category: Poverty Alleviation
ILending. Instrument: SDecific Investment Loan                Proeram of Targeted Intervention:              I rxi l ~ e Is r 1 INO

 Project Financing Data                          [XI Loan             [ ] Credit         [IGuarantee             [ ] Other [Specify]

 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Loan Currency: United States Dollars
 Amount (US$m): 30.0
 Borrower Rationalefor Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: [XI Yes
 ProposedTerms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
 Commitment Fee: 0.75%                                               Front-endFee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.OO%
                                                                     Payment for FEF: Capitalize from Loan Proceeds

 Financing Plan (US$m):
 Source                                                                               Local                Foreign                -
                                                                                                                                  Total
 State Government                                                                      6.40                   0.00                 6.4C
 Community Associations                                                                3.60                   0.00                 3.6C
 IBRD                                                                                 27.90                   2.10                30.0C
 TOTAL:                                                                               37.90                   2.10                40.0(1

 Borrower: State of Maranhiio
 ExecutingAgency: GEAGRONJZPE
 Address: Rua do Giz, 249-Centro, 65010-680-SBo Luis, MA
 Contact Person: Dr. AntGnio Gualhardo Alvarez Prazeres
 Tel: 55-98-232-3699                         Fax: 55-98-232-1567                           Email: nepe@nepe.ma.gov.br

 EstimatedDisbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
                  FY                  2004*                  - 2006
                                                             2005                                          - -
                                                                                                            2007                   200r
              Annual                     3.00                 8.25                   9.00                   6.75                    3.0(
         Cumulative                      3.00                11.25                  20.25                  27.00                   30.0(

 * Includes retroactive financing of up to US$3.0million for eligible expenditures incurred after June 30, 2003 but not earlier than
 twelve months prior to loan signing.

 Project Implementation Period: Four years

 Expected Effectiveness Date: 913012004                              Expected Closing Date: 1213112008

A. Project Development Objective

1. ProjectDevelopment Objective

Background:

In 2001, the most recent year for which household data exist, MaranhHo was Brazil's second poorest state on a per
capita income basis. Using a poverty line of about a dollar a day, nearly 60 percent o f Maranhenses are living in
poverty. Maranhgo also has the second lowest Human Development Index (HDI),' a combined measure of income
and equality, educational and health indicators, among all of Brazil's states. The lag in education is particularly
severe, with the average educational attainment (2.8 years) well below that of both the country and neighboring
Northeast states. Finally, Maranhao is Brazil's most rural state, and it is in the rural space where HDIs are the
lowest. The State's needs in terms of socio-economic infrastructure and services, and institutional capacity, are
commensurate with these indicative statistics.

The State Government of MaranhHo has set a goal of increasing its HDIfrom 0.647 (in 2000) to 0.700 by the year
2007, and this provides the unifying theme for its multi-year investment plan (PPA 2004-07). Although ambitious,
this goal is feasible based on the State's track record over the past decade. Since the 1990s, MaranhHo has had a
series of competent State Governments, and social indicators have increased faster than in most Northeast states.
The State has launched an innovative, decentralized form of government, dividing itself into 18 regional
management units, and has been very active in attempting to change the culture of Brazil's state and local
governments away from clientelism and patronage, toward responsible service delivery to the population.

The Government has built its PPA on a strategic platform comprising six elements: (1) economic integration, (2)
competitiveness, (3) transformation o f the economic base, (4) social inclusion, (5) construction o f a knowledge
economy, and (6) environmental sustainability. All programs in the PPA are justified in relation to these six
principles, and programs across all sectors are then implemented by 18 regional executing agencies (gergncius).
Priority programs are in education, health, water and sanitation, employment generation through local productive
clusters, technology, environmental preservation, and public sector management and planning. At the level of the
economy, in order to pursue these six strategic principles, the state is focusing private sector development along four
principal axes: agro-industry, tourism, construction, and mining/metallurgy.

The proposed project seeks to support the State Government in its effort to reduce poverty by increasing its HDI,
using a community-driven development (CDD) approach that has already proven successful in MaranhHo under the
Bank-financed Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (RPAP, Ln. 4252-BR).               While building on the institutional
foundations of the RPAP, the proposed project will improve on the experience by:

          strengthening the cross-sectoral integration, monitoring, evaluation and results-based management o f
          development efforts within MaranhHo at the state, municipal and local levels;

          better aligning the State's public expenditures with the PPA development priorities, while improving the
         effectiveness and targeting of expenditures;

          introducing performance agreements between the State Government and municipalities, with special
          emphasis on targets for improving the various components o f the HDI, and encouraging subproject
          identification and selection by beneficiaries according to the criteria of impact on municipal HDIs and
          environmental sustainability;



 The Human Development Index (HDI) is a summary measure of three dimensions o f the human development
concept: living a long and healthy life, being educated and having a decent standard o f living. I t combines measures
of life expectancy, school enrollment, literacy and income. There are strong links between the HDIand the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The three dimensions of human development captured in the HDIare
similar to goals 1-7 of the MDGs.



                                                      Page 2

    0    providing significantly more emphasis on education, health, culture, natural resource management and
         environmental sustainability;


    0    taking advantage of opportunities to achieve stronger results through coordinated action, including piloting
         regional subprojects (involving several municipalities) to address environmental issues, and supporting
         productive subprojects which tackle critical gaps within a broader concept of local supply chains (arranjos
         produtivos locais); and

         leveraging the skills, social capital and institutional arrangements developed under the RPAP project at the
         local and municipal levels to improve also the relevance, efficiency, environmental sustainability, targeting
         and outcomes of non-project investments inrural areas of MaranhZo.

Project development objective:

The proposed project will help MaranhZo to achieve the goal of reducing poverty by increasing its HDIfrom 0.647
to 0.700 by the year 2007, through: (a) strengthening the results-based management capacity at the State level for
planning, cross-sectoral integration, monitoring and evaluation o f public policies and investments under MaranhBo's
PPA; (b) supporting cross-sectoral integration of development actions at the municipal and local levels through the
design and implementation of integrated municipal development plans and the introduction of State-municipal
performance agreements; (c) financing demand-driven community investments for income-generation, health and
sanitation, education, culture, environmental management and others impacting the HDI and environmental
sustainability; and (d) strengthening municipal governance through the participation o f community associations and
municipal councils in decisions that are directly related to improvements in the living conditions of the rural poor,
and through capacity-building focused on integration of environmental sustainability issues in the decision-making
process.


2. Key Performance Indicators

0   Increase in statewide and municipal HDIs attributable directly to project technical assistance and investments;
0   Improvement in State's capacity to achieve cross-sectoral integration of public policies and investments, and to
    effectively plan, monitor and evaluate its PPA;
0   Number of State-municipal performance agreements under implementation and achieving a positive impact on
    cross-sectoral integrationand investment effectiveness at municipal and local levels;
0   Number of project Municipal Councils participating in priority-setting and decision-making on resource
    allocation of both project and non-project funded development activities;
0   Number of community subprojects approved following the criteria of impact on the HDIand environmental
    sustainability; and
0   Number of families benefited by project activities.



 B. Strategic Context

1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goalssupported by the project (see Annex 1):


CAS Document Number:                                      Date of latest CAS Discussion:
R2003-0194 [IFC R2003-01981                               December 9,2003

The current results-based Bank CAS for Brazil aims to achieve a more equitable, sustainable and competitive Brazil,
inter alia through integrated responses to development challenges. Given the Northeast's relatively higher level of
poverty and inequality, the CAS maintains and reinforces the Bank's longstanding commitment to the region. The
proposed project supports the CAS by focusing on the Northeast state o f MaranhZo, Brazil's second poorest state,
and within MaranhHo it places special emphasis on the poorest municipalities with the lowest HDIs. It supports


                                                       Page 3

integrated and simultaneous action on the economic and social fronts, both at the central level, through a "horizontal
component" which will strengthen State policy formulation and management of investments across sectors, and at
the municipal and local levels by expanding the role of participatory Municipal Councils and introducing results-
based performance agreements aimed at improving municipal HDIs. The project directly promotes sustainable
poverty reduction in rural MaranhHo by explicitly linking inputs (i.e., demand-driven subproject investments) to
improvements inthe HDI. Through careful targeting and disbursement of funds directly to community associations,
using proven community-based decision-making and implementation arrangements, the project will build social
capital at the local and municipal levels, improve cost-effectiveness and enhance sustainability of assets by building
communities' sense of ownership and commitment. By strengthening the capacity o f Municipal Councils and
forging links between these entities and other partners (Federal programs, state and local governments, civil society,
financing institutions and the private sector), the project will help to leverage resources for local development and
improve the consistency and overall impact of rural poverty reduction efforts in MaranhHo.

2. MainSector Issuesand Government Strategy

Rural Poverty and Social Exclusion: Brazil is characterized by extreme levels of income disparity, with poverty
rates much higher than in other countries at a similar level of per-capita GDP. The Northeast region accounts for
only 20 percent of Brazil's land area, yet is home to 30 percent of its total population and to 49% o f all Brazilians
living on less than US$1 per day. Within Brazil, Maranhiio i s the second poorest state, has the second lowest HDI,
and i s the country's most rural state. Rural areas of MaranhHo show serious deficits in terms of minimal access to
basic services: 84 percent without piped water, 80 percent without sanitation, and 53 percent without electricity.
As discussed below, social indicators are also well below national averages.

Notwithstanding these deficits relative to the rest of Brazil, MaranhHo has actually experienced one o f the strongest
rates of improvement over the past decade. The HDI for Maranhao rose from 0.551 in 1991 to 0.647 in 2000,
although this i s still well below the national average of 0.764.   The State's strategy for addressing rural poverty
explicitly links interventions through the PPA to the desired increase in the HDI. I t will target investments which
have the greatest potential to raise the HDI, paying particular attention to the poorest municipalities and to the `rural
space' generally. Municipal Councils established under the predecessor RPAP project in Maranhi30 (Ln. 4252-BR)
will play an expanded role in investment prioritization and allocation decisions.        The State government further
proposes to introduce agreements with municipal governments (contratos de adeszo) whereby each party commits
to performance indicators relating to the expenditure program outlined in the PPA and the HDIobjective. The State
Management Unit for Planning, Budget and Management (GEPLAN) has been tasked with integrating, monitoring
and evaluating state, municipal and federal expenditures directed toward poverty reduction in Maranhiio, using a
results-based management information system (SIARI) which it will strengthen and integrate with existing control
systems.

Low Educationand Health Attainments. Inorder to achieve its HDIgoal, Maranhao needs to pay special attention
to improving its extremely poor education and health indicators, and this, in turn, will require integrated action
among social sector, infrastructure and income generation programs. The average educational attainment for the
State is only 2.8 years - the second lowest in Brazil and significantly below the Northeast average o f about four
years. Many school districts, especially in the rural interior, have no access to education beyond grade four and in
those cases children's only recourse is to move or permanently drop out. Adult illiteracy is twice the national
average.

The State strategy for addressing these challenges involves (a) increasing access and quality in the first four grades
o f basic education, (b) raising literacy levels by closely linking literacy programs with productive activities to
maintain motivation of youths and adults to participate, and (c) reducing infant and maternal mortality. Although
social subprojects were eligible for support under the RPAP, communities tended to prioritize other kinds of
investments. Over the next few years, the State will make a major effort to inform Municipal Councils and
communities and motivate them to participate in several programs with proven effectiveness, including Vamos Ler
(Let's Read), PRONERA, and Escola Ativa (Active School, modeled on Colombia's Escuela Nueva program). At
the same time, they will also be encouraged to identify any interventions in other sectors which may also be crtical
for achievingeducation and health objectives, such as rural electrification, water supply, local transport, etc.




                                                      Page 4

Environmental Sustainability. Maranhiio faces a number of important environmental issues, the solutions to which
will play a criticial role in underpinning the long-term sustainability of the State's development efforts. Among the
most pressing:     improper treatment of liquid and solid wastes, high rates of deforestation, inadequate agricultural
and livestock technologies, occupation of protected areas and legal reserves, and watershed degradation. As in the
case of the social sectors, addressing these problems will require an integrated approach, at both state and local
levels, and often across sectors. An important part of the State's strategy will be to work with local communities
and Municipal Councils to sensitize them to the causes and impacts of environmental problems, to encourage them
to address environmental sustainability issues in the local planning process, and to identify the key issues in their
respective geographic locations and seek financing to address them (e.g., production and planting of native
seedlings for reforestation, including species with good commercial marketing prospects, forestation or reforestation
of areas of particular value to the community, development of opportunities to sell environmental services,
establishment of demonstration units for environmentally sustainable agricultural technologies, development of
efficient fuelwood alternatives).   The State will also pilot coordinated action across municipalitieskommunitiesto
address common sub-regional environmental problems (e.g., micro-basin management in the Vale do Magu).

Integration of Policies and Investments. The State Government of Maranhiio seeks to unite its investment program
under a common results-based framework aimed at reducing poverty by raising the HDI, and to upgrade its
management capacity to plan, integrate, monitor and evaluate its efforts towards achieving that goal. Effective
integration of development efforts has both spatial and cross-sectoraldimensions. The State's strategy includes the
recent adoption of a new state government structure at the level of its 18 regions. GEPLAN is developing a
computerized system to integrate planning and budgeting functions (SEPOC). Also within GEPLAN, an existing
system tracks the planning and execution of government programs at the municipal level (SISPCA). A new institute
has been established (IEASE) to help strengthen the links between statistical data collection and analysis and policy
formulation. A further information system is planned (SIARI) to track links between execution o f programs and
their impact on the state's overall HDIgoals. Finally, the State plans to develop individual performance agreements
with municipalities, indicating the spending programs on which the two levels of government will collaborate and
setting specific performance targets; impact will be measured through SIARI. Sustained cross-sectoral dialogue
among the various State Management Units and with local and municipal actors will be vital to build consensus on
the merits of pursuing an integrated approach to poverty reduction.

Decentralization: Since ratification of the Brazilian Federal Constitution of 1988, there has been a trend towards
increasing decentralization of fiscal resources, public investment, priority-setting and program implementation, from
the Federal Government to the state, municipal and local levels. The current State administration in Maranhiio has
adopted the new governmental structure referred to above. I t also intends to strengthen local and municipal capacity
to participate effectively in priority-setting, decision-making over resource allocations and progradproject
implementation and maintenance. At present, there are 216 Municipal Councils developed under the RPAP (in all
municipalities except Siio Luis, the State capital), but there are also other councils - PRONAF, DLIS, etc. - present
in many of these municipalities. The State plans to consolidate these entities under a unifiedMunicipal Council for
Sustainable Rural Development (CMDRS), whose mandate would include all the principal challenges to improving
the HDIat municipal level. The composition o f the CMDRS may vary among municipalities, provided the majority
are representatives from community associations and other organized civil society, following the procedures
established under the RPAP. State and municipal governments will play a vital role in the functioning of the
CMDRS, in terms o f logistical support and partnering in the execution of project activities.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project andstrategic choices

The project will assist Maranhiio in implementing its strategies to address the above sector issues: (a) rural poverty
and social exclusion, (b) especially low education and health indicators, (c) environmental sustainability; (d)
integration of public policies and investments to achieve greater impact on the HDIand poverty reduction and (e)
decentralization.     B y expanding access of poor rural communities in Maranhiio to basic socio-economic
infrastructure, productive opportunities and environmental investments, the project aims to increase incomes and
improve well-being.        Operationally, the project will adopt the following principal strategies: the integration
(sectoral and spatial) of public policies and investments to attain the over-arching goal of raising Maranhiio's HDI;
the decentralization of decision-making to the municipal and community levels; the informed participation of
communities and municipal councils in the prioritization of investments in line with the objectives of the PPA; the



                                                       Page 5

active engagement of organized civil society; the active participation of municipal government; and the continuous
monitoring and evaluation of results on the ground. Compared with earlier interventions, the project will not only
broaden Bank support to MaranhHo, but through a "horizontal" component (see sections below on Main Strategic
Choices and Project Description) will also provide the wider context for future Bank assistance to the State. The
following instruments will be employed:

     The PPA for MaranhHo, which indicates the macro policies, strategic themes and investments neededfor
     attainment o f the State's mobilizing goal of increasing the HDIfrom 0.647 to 0.700 by year 2007;

     Results-based management techniques under the aegis of GEPLAN, supported by several planning,
     management information, monitoring, control, analysis and program evaluation tools (SEPOC, SISPCA and
     SIARI);

     State-municipal performance agreements, entered into by both parties, designed to formalize their partnership in
     and obligations toward achieving poverty reduction outcomes through improvement in municipal HDIs;

     Municipal Plans for Integrated Development (PMDI), as a means of rationalizing the goals embodied inthe
     PPA with local-level demands;

     Municipal Councils, as agents of social control for project activities and Community Associations, as executing
     entities;

     A project communication plan, to facilitate dialogue between central Government and localentities and to
     ensure an alignment between public policy orientation and the informed participation regarding investment
     decisions at the local level; and

     An environmental management plan, as a means of aiding and promoting policies for conservation, preservation
     and sustainability.

The project will build on the successful CDD mechanisms that were piloted and scaled-up, respectively, under the
R-NRDP and RPAP in the Northeast States (Annex 11). The cumulative impact of these earlier projects attests to
the robustness of this strategy: (a) since 1993, more than 50,000 infrastructure, productive and social investments
have reached about 7.5 million poor people with at least one subproject, working with over 30,000 rural Northeast
communities; (b) sustainability of investments is high, with about 90 percent of a sample of over 8,000 subprojects
funded in 1995 and 1997-8 still fully operational; (c) cost efficiency has also been high, with recorded cost savings
of 30-50 percent over similar publicly-provided infrastructure and services; (e) of the almost 1,500 project
Municipal Councils functioning to date, some 30 percent have progressed beyond simple subproject decision-
making to engage in municipal planning and allocation of non-project resources, and about 25 percent of community
associations have also used their social capital and assets acquired under the projects to access non-project
financing.    Recent research on the project municipal councils indicates that the decentralized decision-making
structures fostered under the RPAP for fund allocation and oversight, combined with community-level subproject
implementation, contribute to the strength and sustainability of these Councils. As such, these Councils have
quickly become vehicles for increasing local levels of civic engagement and have led to a greater sense o f
citizenship and empowerment on the part of those community associations which participate.

The main strategic choices made inproject design include:

CDD approach: The community-based approach, when compared to more traditional management of similar
investments executed by traditional public sector entities, has proven to be cost-effective, more responsive to local
priorities and to offer better prospects for sustainability (Annex 11).

Targeted interventions which directly impact HDI: The State o f MaranhHo has focused its investment program on
the goal o f raising the HDI statewide to 0.700 by 2007, as a means o f benchmarking progress toward poverty
reduction.    All aspects of the public investment agenda are linked to this mobilizing goal. Under the proposed



                                                       Page 6

project, subproject investments would be assessed at the municipal level through the CMDRSs for their expected
contribution toward raising the HDI. Community associations and Municipal Councils would take part in capacity-
buildingactivities to build awarenessand skills in linking local-level investments to changesinthe HDI.

Local-level integration of programs andpoliciesfor poverty reduction: A growing number of Municipal Councils
in the Northeast are now proactively seeking funding from and participating in decision-making on both RPAP
project and non-project sources of finance. Under the new project, these Councils will expand their input into
broader local planning, with a view to achieving better integration of policies and programs and improving the
impact o f public resources available for poverty reduction.      Partnerships among Federal, State and Municipal
agencies, civil society and project Municipal Councils will be encouraged to improve the planning and execution of
local and municipal investments, deliver technical assistance and training, leverage additional non-project funding,
and thereby help to rationalize human and financial resources for poverty reduction in an era of necessary fiscal
austerity.

Horizontal integration to enhance the impact of public expendituresfor poverty reduction: A key transformation
in the approach taken by the State of Marahfio is to strengthen its cross-sectoral planning, monitoring and impact
evaluation of public policies and development expenditures. The project will support this transformation through
technical assistance, training and seminars, working closely with GEPLAN. Integration will occur both at the local
level, through the coordination of project and non-project investments via municipal development plans and State-
municipal agreements, and at the central level, through the planning and budgeting functions of the State
government. Inthis spirit, the "horizontal" component of the project (Section C.l) will help to strengthen the State's
overall ability to pursue its HDI goal through the effective execution o f the PPA by assisting GEPLAN in its
construction of a results-based management framework and in the integration of government programs across
sectors.

Beneficiary targeting via municipal-level HDZ (HDZ-M): Project municipal councils can more easily engage in
priority-setting when an indicative resource envelope is available.       Allocation of subproject resources across
municipalities will be basedon a formula tied to their share of the State's rural population and the relative HDI.

Strengthening partnerships with civil society: Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have already played a
strong and positive role in the RPAP, in mobilizing and training community associations and project municipal
councils and providingtechnical assistanceduring subproject preparation and execution, particularly with youth and
womens' groups, Quilombolas (descendents o f former slaves) and indigenous communities. The proposed project
will maintain and further strengthen these linkages with civil society.

Social Inclusion: The demand-driven nature of the project has already been shown to be highly inclusive of those
groups which have been historically excluded from the development process. In Maranhiio, both Quilombola and
indigenous communities implemented about fifty subproject investments under the predecessor RPAP. This
represents about 1% of all subproject investments, which is more than proportional to these groups' distribution
within the statewide population. Under the RPAP, specialized training was offered to Quilombola and indigenous
communities as a means of facilitating their participation; this same approach will be pursued under the proposed
project.   These efforts to stimulate the participation and inclusion o f these two groups will be further enhanced
under the proposed project.

Greaterfocus on education, culture and health investments: The relatively low indicators for access to education
in rural areas, as well as retention rates, imply that investments in this sector can have substantial influence on
raising the HDI. Under the proposed project, activities in literacy and basic education for adults (i.e., age 15 and
higher) will be financed via the CDD mechanism, in such programs as Vamos Ler and improvements to multi-grade
rural schools along the lines of Escola Ativa, which adopts a methodology successfully field-tested in Colombia
(Nueva Escuela). Health-related investments could directly impact HDI by reducing out-of-pocket costs due to
preventable illness, as well as increasing longevity. Such subprojects would include improved sanitation, mini
health posts, health education and training programs, among others.




                                                     Page7

Renewed attention to environmental protection and conservation: Sustainability o f investment activities at the
local level, including project-financed assets will be strengthenedby environmental training for Municipal Councils,
Community Associations and project technical staff. In addition, a new category o f investment - environmental
subprojects - will be made available to beneficiary communities, and regional development subprojects will be
piloted, which involve more than one municipality in a coordinated effort to address common environmental
challenges. The project will provide access to environmental expertise via an in-house environmental specialist and
partnerships with the State Management Unit for the Environment and Natural Resources (GEMA), building
awareness of sound natural resources management and environmental practices into municipal development
agendas.

C. Project DescriptionSummary

1. Project Components (seeAnnex 2 for detaileddescriptionandAnnex 3for detailedcostbreakdown)

The total project cost is US$40 million, of which the Bank will finance US$30 million; the State of Maranhtio,
US$6.4 million; and beneficiary communities, US$3.6 million, in cash or in-kind.

Component I Community Subprojects (US$36 million or 90% of total project cost) will support community
                 -
matching grants for approximately 1,200 small-scale socio-economic infrastructure, education, health, culture,
productive, environmental and other investments aimed at raising HDIs. All 216 municipalities inMaranhb (other
than Sa6 Luis) will be covered by this component, because of the importance o f encouraging cross-sectoral
integration throughout the State, getting all municipalities to focus on the HDIs, and strengthening local and
municipal institutional arrangements. However, about 60% of total component cost will be concentrated in the 80
municipalities with the lowest HDIs.

Component 2      -Znstitutional Development (US$2 million or 5% of total project cost) will finance technical
assistance and training to increase the capacity of implementing entities including the CMDRSs, community
associations, GEAGRO and GEPLAN.

Component 3      - Horizontal Zntegration      (US$1 million or 2.5% of total project cost) will finance technical
assistance to strengthen the results-based management capacity of the State Government to plan, integrate, monitor
and evaluate public policies and investments for poverty reduction, and to improve the alignment of public
expenditures with the State's development priorities.

Component 4 Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1 million or 2.5% of total
                -
project cost)    will finance      costs (excluding salaries) of project administration and coordination, including
supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.



Component                                    Indicative Costs          % of     BankFinancing            % of Total
                                                 (US$million)         Total        (US$ million)    Bank Financing
1. Community Subprojects                                 36.0          90.0                  27.0               90.0
2. Institutional Development                              2.0           5.0                   1.7                5.7
3. Horizontal Integration                                  1.o          2.5                   0.8                2.7
4. Project Administration, Supervision,                    1.o          2.5                   0.5                1.6
Monitoring and Evaluation
Tntal Prniect Cnsts:                                     40.0         1on.n                  3n.n              1on.n

2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supported by the project

The principal institutional reform supported under the project is the move by Maranhtio to integrate its policies and
investments - as detailed in the PPA - under the mobilizing objective o f improving the State's HDI. Such
integration, if successful, will strengthen the impact of both project and non-project investments and should lead to a



                                                       Page 8

reduction in the share of the rural population living in poverty. Additional reforms supported by the project will
include the recent decentralization of the State government into 18 regional management units, the use of State-
municipal performance contracts, and the consolidation of municipal level councils established by the RPAP and
other programs at the municipal and local level into single Municipal Councils (CMDRSs).

3. Benefits and target population

Benefits:
   Improvement in the quality of life and/or incomes o f some 80,000 rural families in MaranhHo (about 400,000
   people) through participation in at least one community subproject. Monitorable impacts may include higher
   productivity, increased family income, job creation, income diversification, improved education and health
    indicators, and enhanced environmental sustainability.

    Social capital will be strengthened through the project-assisted Municipal Councils and community associations
    and governance improved at the rural community and municipal levels through the greater integration fostered
   by the performance agreements(contrutos de udestio)between the State and municipal governments.
   The volume of non-project finance available for rural poverty reduction, and its effectiveness, should increase as
   project Municipal Councils, with appropriate training, more proactively seek funding for local development
    needs and extend their involvement in priority-setting and decision-making over resource allocation o f other
   federal, state and local programs.

Target Population: While the project would indirectly benefit many o f the 2.7 million people living in the rural
space, in 216 municipalities throughout the State of MaranhHo, as a result of better cross-sectoral integration and
targeting of development activities, it would directly reach about 400,000 people through some 1,200 community
sub-projects (about 15% o f the population living in the `rural space').    Sixty percent of total subproject resources
would be concentrated in the 80 municipalities (with a total rural population of 1.1 million) which have the lowest
HDIs. In each of these municipalities, an indicative budget envelope averaging US$270,000 would be available
over the four-year period. The remaining 136 municipalities would be allocated indicative budget envelopes o f
US$79,000.     For both of these groups, additional non-project resources would be mobilized under the local-level
integration pursued by the CMDRSs.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements

Implementation period: Four years

Executing entities:

Community Associations are groups of rural citizens with a common interest who organize into legally-constituted
civil associations. They identify, prepare, implement, supervise, operate and maintain their subprojects, assisted both
by technical specialists whom they contract directly and by technical assistance and training made available by
project Municipal Councils and the State Technical Unit. Once subprojects are approved for financing, Community
Associations can access a share of the costs for design and implementation assistance.

Municipal Councils (CMDRSs) include representatives of beneficiaries and civil society, as well as local
government. A majority of voting CMDRS members (at least 60%) would represent potential beneficiary
communities while the remaining 40% representation would be from other organized civil society (e.g., STR,
NGOs, local government) and other public sector entities. CMDRSs are the key organization for targeting of
benefits and allocating project resources; they also provide a critical link to local government and have the potential
to engage in other non-project activities. The CMDRSs play a fundamental role in mobilizing communities and
promoting their participation in local decision-making. Duringregularly scheduled and widely publicized meetings
that the public is encouraged to attend, the CMDRSs receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the
Community Associations, within the ceiling o f an indicative resource envelope received from NEPE, and in line
with their Municipal Plan for Integrated Development (PMDI).




                                                     Page 9

The State Technical Unit. The NUcleo Estadual de ProjetosEspeciais (NEPE), within the State Management Unit
of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (GEAGRO), will function as the State Technical Unit (STU),
responsible for overall project coordination, with the support of GEAGRO's 18 regional units (CasusdeAgricultura
Familiar - CAFs). NEPE will gradually delegate supervision of community associations and subprojects to the
CMDRSs and concentrate on oversight of the Municipal Councils themselves, as well as general project
coordination and promotion. The latter duties include continuous execution of information campaigns, project
reporting, impact evaluation, Management Information System (MIS) updating, and design and provision of tailored
training modules for CMDRSs and Community Associations on key project issues.

The State Management Unitfor Planning, Budget and Management (GEPLAN) will, through Component 3 of
the project, promote the integration of public policies and investments oriented toward poverty reduction, monitor
the activities associated with these policies - including, inter alia, the subproject investments financed under
Component 1- and evaluate the outcomes and impacts as they relate to an increase in MaranhFio's HDI.

SubprojectCycle:
    A statewide information campaign will increase public awareness about the project, and Municipal Councils
    and community associations will receive explanations about the situation of their municipality with respect to
    the HDIand its various components, to help them in considering subproject alternatives and understanding the
    HDIcriteria which will beusedinthe selection process.
    Community associations determine their local investment priorities, based on their own choices and information
    provided concerning the State's HDI objective and the proirities under the PPA, and will prepare subproject
    proposals for investment financing.
     Subproject proposals from community associations are submitted to the respective CMDRS, where they are
     prioritized and approved, based on indicative municipal resource envelopes, their expected contribution toward
     improvement of HDI-M, and their compatibility with the Municipal Plan for IntegratedDevelopment (PMDI).
     The STU technically evaluates approved subprojects and confirms compliance with subproject technical, social
     and environmental guidelines established in the Project Operational Manual before releasing funds.
     Subproject agreements are signed between NEPE and community associations. These agreements spell out the
     terms and conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved
     subprojects.
     Resources for subproject implementation are then transferred directly from the project to the community
     association's bank account.
     Community associations contract goods, works and technical assistance for subproject execution, bear
     responsibility for operation and maintenance of all investments, and may request technical assistanceto develop
     operation and maintenance arrangements for subproject investments.

Project Oversight: GEPLAN is responsible for project oversight and the Manager of GEPLAN represents the
Borrower vis-a-visthe Bank. The Manager delegates day-to-day execution o f Component 1,2 and 4 to NEPE, which
is housed within GEAGRO and will operate as the STU. Component 3 (Horizontal Integration) will be executed by
GEPLAN.

Project Coordination:NEPE, supported by the 18 regional CAFs, will (a) review community subproject proposals
for compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria in the Project Operational Manual; (b) assess the
degree of community participation in identifying, preparing and executing subprojects and quality of technical
assistance; (c) supervise the project Municipal Councils to ensure they adequately manage quality of subproject
implementation and provide sufficient training support to communities; (d) implement introductory training and
technical assistance programs for all project Municipal Councils and community associations with approved
subprojects (including training on subproject implementation, contracting, 0&M and financial management); (e)
monitor and apply performance incentives to reward efficiency, transparency and inclusiveness of community
associations and project Municipal Councils, and to penalize poor performance/misappropriation(e.g., legal action
for fund misallocation); (f) monitor performance through the project MIS and periodically report progress; (8)
prepare annual implementation,      physical performance reviews, and impact evaluation studies; and (h) submit
project yearly operating plans (POAs) to the Bank for approval.



                                                     Page 10

For the most common types of subprojects, NEPE would develop standardized designs and cost indicators for use by
community associations to ensure reasonable quality and costing for subproject implementation. Departures from
these standard designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject proposal, as would proposed investments
which fall outside the range o f standardized costs. Finally, NEPE will conduct a statewide information campaign to
continuously disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities,
thereby increasing awareness, transparency and participation in the program.          A proposal for the statewide
information campaign was reviewed prior to negotiations and considered satisfactory to the Bank.

GEPLAN will coordinate Component 3 of the project (Horizontal Integration) and will (a) monitor the specific
contribution of the subprojects financed under the project to the goal o f increasing Maranhiio's HDI, (b) assure that
the activities under the proposed project are consistent with the overall strategy of the State, regarding progress
toward improvements in HDI, and (c) maintain detailed information concerning investment programs at the Federal,
State and Municipal levels.

Project operationalprocedures: The project will be implemented according to detailed procedures defined in its
Project Operational Manual. This Manual will be based on that used for the predecessor project (RPAP-MA, Ln.
4252-BR), and has been revised and updated to reflect lessons learned during its implementation and for consistency
with the state's mobilizing goal of achieving an increase in the HDI by 2007 and the integrated nature o f the
proposed project. A user-friendly synthesis of this document will also be available to project Municipal Councils
and community associations. Prior to negotiations, the Bank reviewed a complete draft o f the Project Operational
Manual. Theadoption by the State of the Project Operational Manual, in aform satisfactory to the Bank, would be
a condition of loan effectiveness.

Monitoring arrangements: Monitoring of project implementation will rely on a database of subproject information
from the project MIS operated and maintained by NEPE.             This database will be integrated with statewide
information systems (SEPOC, SISPCA, SIARI) to facilitate monitoring by GEPLAN o f the overall PPA and impact
assessment of the project and broader State development efforts. The database is currently organized in three general
levels:   (a) a subproject information module containing pertinent physical and financial information for each
subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements o f Expenditure (SOEs) and Financial
Statements in FMR format are generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all project reports are
generated. The database includes community profiles, which will also aid in evaluating project impact. The
Institutional Development component will be monitored through tracking o f training events, workshops and
achievement of POAs by the project Municipal Councils. The Horizontal Integration component will be monitored
by GEPLAN via indicators which link both project and non-project expenditures to reduction in poverty in the rural
space and statewide, measured by improvement in the HDI. The Bank's Recife Office will monitor project
performance indicators through the online MIS, and with inputs from the State, review monthly disbursement
summaries and supervise subproject implementation progress on a sample basis in the field. A MIS, satisfactory to
the Bank, is already operational.

Zmpact assessment. Project-financed evaluation studies will assess the impact of the subprojects and provide
feedback to improve project operations. These studies will include: (a) annual physical performance reviews to
assess the quality and sustainability of common types of financed subprojects, including reviews of community-
based procurement; (b) a mid-term evaluatiodimplementation review, to include consultations on project
performance and impact as perceived by its beneficiaries; (c) assessment o f the activities under the Horizontal
Integration component on achieving cross-sectoral integration of public policies and investments to reduce poverty;
and (d) a rigorous and comprehensive evaluation of the impact of the project in raising Maranhiio's HDI. The
impact evaluation will use repeated surveys of project beneficiaries, non-beneficiary   households, and beneficiaries
of similar projects with centralized delivery mechanisms to assess (i)poverty targeting o f beneficiaries relative to
the income distribution of the population at large; (ii)    household welfare; (iii) capital formation at the
                                                                                      social
community level; (iv) improved governance at the municipal level; (v) cost-effectiveness of infrastructure
investments compared with traditional delivery mechanisms; (vi) cost-benefit of productive investments and (vii)
environmental sustainability.    In addition, community leaders and municipal leaders will be surveyed for the
analysis o f social capital and governance impacts. The first baseline field survey will be conducted within six
months of project effectiveness. A survey update, to be contracted at the same time as the baseline study, will be


                                                     Page 11

conducted two years later, followed by further survey updates after four and six years, depending on interim results.
Presentation of Terms of Reference for the project baseline study and for the overall evaluation framework, both
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.

Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The financial management systems to be used by
NEPE were reviewed by a Bank financial management specialist during project preparation for compliance with
OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements.                 The Guidelines of
Fiduciary Management for Community Driven Development Projects (CDD Guidelines) were taken into
consideration where applicable. Based on this review, the financial management arrangements were considered
satisfactory, indicating that the project complies with the Banks minimum financial management requirements. The
final format of the Financial Monitoring Reports - FMR - and their periodicity were agreed during negotiations.
Under the new project, NEPE will implement an action plan, agreed with the Bank, which is a part of the
Management Information System. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual audit
o f the project accounts for the period January 1 to December 31 will be carried out by an Independent Auditor
satisfactory to the Bank. The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following
that for which the project accounts are audited. The year-end FMR will also serve as the Financial Statement of the
Project, on which the independent auditors will express their opinion. The annual audit will also include a review on
the eligibility of expenditures disbursed on the basis of SOEs, as well as on the Special Account, compliance with all
financial covenants and a Management Letter on internal controls and recommendations.

D. Project Rationale

1. Project alternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection:

     More centralized, integrated development model. Experience with integrated rural development projects in
     Northeast Brazil during the 1970s and 1980s conclusively demonstrated that more centralized approaches to
     planning and implementation of infrastructure and service delivery through public institutions are not effective
     in dispersed rural areas, due inter alia to high overhead costs, coordination difficulties, subprojects that do not
     accurately respond to community needs, and poor sustainability of investments. While the proposed project
     will assist in forging effective integration of public programs and policies for poverty reduction, it does so by
     building on an already successful CDD model, broadly recognized for its effectiveness in delivering rural
     infrastructure and services under Brazilian Northeast conditions, its transparency in resource allocation, and
     strong performance in building social capital in rural communities.       Rather than top-down integration, the
     project promotes local-level integration, with project Municipal Councils working closely with municipal
     governments to more effectively bring together cross-sectoral policies and programs to reduce poverty and
     improve quality of life, as measured through the HDI.

     Repeater RPAPproject. The RPAP achieved very positive outcomes which are now widely recognized in the
     Bank, Brazil, and in other countries which are attempting to emulate this CDD model. Nonetheless, rather than
     simply design a repeater project, the team chose to use the institutional foundations o f the RPAP and build on
     them in order to significantly scale up the impact. Without some of the innovations that are incorporated in the
     proposed project (e.g., strengthening results-based management at State level, promoting cross-sectoral
     integration of public policies and investments, introducing State-municipal performance agreements, engaging
     Municipal Councils in decision-making about both project and non-project financed development programs) an
     opportunity would have been missed to achieve much greater impact on poverty reduction and attainment of the
     State's HDIgoal under its PPA.




                                                      Page 12

           Sector Issue                                  Project                         Latest Supervision (PSR)
                                                                                                 Rating
Bank financed:
Land Reform                            Land Reform Pilot (Ln.4147-BR)                       S               S
                                       Land-based Poverty (Ln. 7037-BR)                     S               S
CDD                                    RPAP Maranhao (Ln. 4252-BR)                          S               S
                                       RPAP Paraiba (Ln.4251-BR)                            S               S
                                       RPRP Bahia (Ln.4623-BR)                              S                S
                                       RPRP Cearfi (Ln. 4626-BR)                            S                S
                                       RPRP Pernambuco (4625-BR)                             S               S
                                       RPRP Piaui(Ln. 4624-BR)                               S               S
                                       RPRP Rio Grande do Norte (Ln. 4667-BR)                S               S
                                       RPRP Sergipe (Ln. 4649-BR)                            S               S
NRMiLandManagement                 II  ParanfiN R M and Pov (Ln. 4060-BR)                    S               S
                                       SC NRMand Pov (4660-BR)                           . s                 S
Health                                          Sector Reform                                S               S
Education                          III HDProg.
                                       FUNDESCOLA I11(Ln. 7122-BR)                           S               S


3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:

Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation from federal to state and local
governments and to community organizations, improves program administration and outcomes. Experience in
Northeast Brazil shows that decentralized CDD approaches can reduce bureaucracy and eliminate administrative
bottleneck,s and reinforce accountability for project outcomes by placing decision-making near beneficiaries. The
project will further what has already been achieved under the RPAP, delegating additional duties to Municipal
Councils and utilizing STUcentral and regional offices to promote more responsive and local-level monitoring, data
collection, coordination, and supervision.

Participation by beneficiaries under the RPAP in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects in
Northeast Brazil has helped to ensure that investments meet genuine community needs, generate cost savings, and
increase community `ownership', thus improving sustainability of investments. This methodology will be extended
under the new project to both project and non-project investments critical to achieving Maranhao's HDIobjectives.

Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria, can foster transparency
and minimize political interference in project resource allocation. Poverty targeting mechanisms under the RPAP
have been effective to date in reaching the poorest rural populations in the Northeast. About 84 percent of the
program's beneficiary population are comprised of small farmers and rural laborers living in remote, low density
areas with acute deficiencies in access to basic infrastructure and services. A significant additional population
resides in rural areas directly adjacent to the urban periphery of municipal centers. Experience with project
Municipal Councils demonstrates that communities themselves are the best-positioned and informed to target
effectively. Under the new project, broad targeting will be undertaken (a) at the municipal level, by prioritizing
subproject resources according to poverty indices (Le., municipal HDIs) and (b) at the community level, by the
Municipal Councils themselves, which will be encouraged and technically assisted to undertake a poverty ranking o f
the communities in their municipalities and to use this in prioritizing subproject proposals.

Intensive supervision of CDD projects has been found to be an indispensable determinant of success and
sustainability.  It needs to be reinforced at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities,
particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs. Under the new project, supervision responsibilities will be increasingly
devolved to Municipal Councils, which will be supported with training and technical assistance. Measures will also




                                                    Page 13

be taken to provide computers and information technology to the Councils to allow them to receive and exchange
information through the Internet and to modernize management.

A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides feedback
and necessary information to improve targeting and efficiency, and i s an essential management and planning tool.
The project MIS will be enhanced to more effectively link physical implementation data with financial information
on the project, and will be integrated with State information systems to facilitate overall monitoring and evaluation
of the PPA. A comprehensive impact evaluation component will also be introduced to measure income, welfare and
social capital gains.

Dissemination of "bestpractices", such as experiences with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte, EMATERCE in CearB,
social inclusion in Maranhzo and FUMAC Councils in Bahia and Sergipe can hasten learning and reward
innovation. Under the new project, exchanges among states, municipalities and communities will be expanded
further usingmore frequent regional training seminars, and workshops and videoconferencing, where available.

Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies subproject preparation and
evaluation, improves the quality of subprojects, facilitates the procurement process, prevents over-design and
enables participation by poorer communities. The existing database of standard designs will be reviewed at appraisal
and technically updated and expanded where necessary.

Environmental protection criteria: Proactive attention to natural resource management and sustainability issues i s
essential in the environmentally fragile State of Maranhzo, located in a transition zone from the Semi-arid Northeast
to the Amazon region. The project will offer an expanded option of environmental subprojects which community
associations can propose, as well as piloting of regional or territorial subprojects which may cut across several
municipalities (e.g., watershed management). Demonstration projects will also be undertaken in selected regions
throughout the state to stimulate interest in the adoption of sustainable resource management technologies and
techniques. Municipal Councils will serve as focal points for channeling information from the State and NGOs
(e.g., AMAVIDA) on environmental issues relevant to the specific municipality. The re-designed and enhanced
environmental checklist developed under RPAP will be used to improve the criteria and procedures, and their
application for evaluating environmental impact of subprojects. An environmental specialist at NEPE will provide
additional technical assistance on environmental matters and training to increase environmental awareness of
Municipal Councils and community groups. Partnerships will be fostered with State and municipal environmental
agencies and NGOs to develop a culture of environmental awareness in the communities and Councils through
training and education.

Technical assistance enhances the ability of community associations and Municipal Councils to identify, prepare
and implement subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical
assistance needs to be targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and financial
capacity to participate in the project. Locating and/or developing sources of technical assistance in rural areas
requires significant attention and needs to be monitored at the local level. Under the new project, attention will be
placed on training at the community level. To this effect, funds will be made available for the appointment of
`technical advisors' to be recruited by each Municipal Council. These advisors will be responsible for managing
and coordinating local technical and training needs. Increasing efforts will also be placed on deeper involvement of
civil society (e.g., NGOs and other civil and church groups) - particularly with respect to increasing the flow of
information, mobilizing the poorest groups and supporting training activities at the community level.

A system of checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, is essential to ensure proper use of funds
and sound targeting of resources. Guidelines for performance incentives and penalties will be detailed in the Project
Operational Manual. Incentives may include increasing Councils' indicative budget envelopes, increasing the
number of investments or investment volume permitted to a community association, or incentives for environmental
or technologically innovative investments. Penalties would attach to cases o f mis-management and diversion o f
funds and include removal from eligibility to participate, reduced availability of funds, and/or judicial action. As
important as penalties per se is the free and transparent flow o f information.          Municipal Councils include
participation of local civil society (e.g., NGOs, Rural Workers' Union, the Church), representatives of public


                                                     Page 14

ministries and municipal officials, and their meetings are publicly announced and open to broad participation.
Project-financed computers in the Councils will enable Council decisions to be publicized on their own and on
NEPE's webpages. All of the above are designed to institutionalize transparency.

Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision
criteria. Under the new project, a `one-shot' matching grant will be provided to eligible productive investments that
(a) provide services for a large number of community members; (b) whose collective use is regulated by strict
operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); (c) for which 0 & M is assuredby charging adequate user fees to both
association members and non-members; (d) meet the criteria of impact on HDI and environmental sustainability;
and (e) include technical assistanceto ensure the sustainability o f the investment. Revisedprocedures for productive
subprojects are outlined in the Project Operational Manual, as are arrangements to facilitate access to formal credit
by eligible communities (Annex 2). Efforts will also be taken to expand the participation of communities in the
ongoing "Fair Trade" initiative (Comkrcio Etico e Soliddrio).

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:

The proposed project has been designed in close consultation with the State of Maranhiio. The project objective i s
fully consistent with the state's PPA 2004-2007 in seeking explicit linkages between project activities and expected
improvements in the HDI. In meetings during project preparation, both the State Governor and the State
Management Units involved (Le., GEAGRO, GEPLAN, GEMA) fully endorsed the project concept.                       NEPE
demonstrated strong capacity for project management under the RPAP and will coordinate the proposed project,
once it is approved. The project proposal was submitted by the State o f Maranhiio to the Federal Government,
which has given its approval to proceed.

5. Value added of Bank support inthis project:

For nearly three decades, the Bank has partnered with the Northeast States to address rural poverty through a variety
of programs and projects. Under the predecessor project (RPAP-MA, Ln. 4152-BR), using a CDD approach some
197,000 families benefited from more than 4,300 community investment subprojects. Bank participation will ensure
that international best-practice in CDD (both in Brazil and elsewhere) is incorporated into project design and that
sound international quality standards of monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment are applied. An especially
important feature o f Bank value-added under the proposed project will be its ability to facilitate closer local
integration on the part of project Municipal Councils with the wide spectrum of programs aimed at rural poverty
reduction. The Bank is well-positioned to help forge these linkages, not only because of its direct role in financing
the RPAP and developing the Municipal Council mechanism, but also because of its involvement in other important
sectoral programs relevant to rural poverty reduction (e.g., irrigation, agricultural research, land reform, education,
rural health, environmental sustainability) and the many opportunities for policy dialogue and consensus buildingin
the context of its fairly active program of collaborative research and analytical work on poverty and rural
development issues in Brazil. The Bank will also provide technical value-added in the development of results-based
management methods within the State Government through the Horizontal Component of the project, strengthening
the planning, coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the Government's investment program. Finally, the Bank
will undertake, as part of its strategic updating of all work in Northeast Brazil, a yearly review o f how the
implementation of the Bank's Northeast program is contributing to integrate broader issues of poverty reduction in
the region.


E:Summary ProjectAnalyses (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)

1. Economic (see Annex 4):

Specific investments under the proposed project will be selected and carried out by communities during
implementation. It is thus not possible to know a priori precisely how resources will be allocated, or to determine
their cost-effectiveness, rate of return and fiscal impact. However, many o f the subprojects would, in general, be
similar to those financed under previous and ongoing community-based rural development projects in the Northeast.



                                                     Page 15

Based on the accumulated experience from these projects, the following aspects of subproject investments were
assessed: (a) cost-effectiveness; (b) financial viability of productive subprojects; and (c) the overall fiscal impact.

Cost-effectiveness: Several aspects of project design help to ensure that subproject investments represent the least-
cost, best alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of subproject selection helps to ensure that scarce resources
flow where they are most needed and chosen subprojects are the best alternatives for local communities. Second, the
use of standard technical designs (projetospadrzo) and cost parameters for the most common types of infrastructure
and social subprojects ensures that community associations employ least-cost models for subproject implementation
and decreases associated search and information costs. Third, the delegation of subproject implementation directly
to the community associations has proven to generate cost savings, when compared to similar quality works
implemented by public sector agencies. The contracting procedures in the Project Operational Manual will allow
direct contracting by community associations, but it will require that they solicit three bids for the subproject and
select the least-cost bid. Based on the analysis of a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which
collectively represent some 80 percent of the types of subprojects financed under the R-NRDP and RPAP), it has
been found that, for infrastructure and social subprojects, costs were 30-50 percent less than for projects of similar
quality, implemented by the state.

2. Financial (see Annex 4):

Internal rates of return were estimated for the most common types of productive subprojects. These exceeded, on
average, 30 percent. Analyses were made assuming constant benefits over a ten-year subproject life cycle. In
addition to these positive impacts, benefits are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities.
Sensitivity analysis performed on these illustrative subprojects showed that they tend to be reasonably robust vis-8-
vis decreases in output and prices and increasesin production costs.

Benefitcost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main productive subprojects analyzed. Analysis of these
subprojects also suggests that investments are generally financially sustainable. Although beneficiary associations
do receive a one-time matching grant, the investments tend to be sustainable because cost recovery through user fees
by the average beneficiary association is normally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of original
investments before the end of their useful economic life.

The project's directfiscal impact depends on what the State would have done in the absence of the project. First, if
the State had attempted to provide the basic services through traditional delivery mechanisms, the fiscal savings are
direct and significant (see cost effectiveness discussion above). Evaluations indicate that a significant fiscal
contribution will also accrue from cost savings associated with the decreased need for state and local governments to
provide certain services, due to project investments. A mid-term review of the RPAP in Bahia, Ceari and Sergipe
concluded that, in Sergipe, estimated savings from not having to use water trucks to provide communities with
drinking water during critical periods totaled R$500,000 (about R$100,000 per month) during a year o f `normal'
rainfall; in Ceari savings were estimated at R$950,000; and in Bahia, R $ l million. In years o f severe drought, as in
1998, savings were at least twice those estimated for a normal year. Provision of better quality, more reliable water
also has less quantifiable but nonetheless significant impacts on health, reducing public health costs of Municipal
Governments.      The Project reduces the dependency of municipalities on central and state government transfers by
strengthening the capacity of local governments and communities to take responsibility for local economic and
social development.      Subproject O&M costs are typically paid by beneficiary communities, reducing the fiscal
burden on municipalities and states (with few exceptions, e.g., electricity and some types of water supply,
commonly maintained by state agencies and operated in return for a user fee). Finally, the additional, highly cost-
effective annual spendingattributable to the project constitutes 1 percent o f total public expenditures for fiscal year
2002 and thus has no significant impact on the aggregate fiscal position of the State.

Finally, interms of revenue generation, direct impacts are likely to be small, but indirect impact could be significant.
Incremental ICMS (sales tax) revenues from subproject investments are insignificant for the state. Much of the
incremental production of the subprojects is either self-consumed, not liable to taxation, and/or circulates in informal
markets where tax is rarely paid. But it can imply a significant increase in ICMS collected within the poor
municipalities in which the project operates (ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25 percent
of total collections, independent o f where it is collected). Experience under the RPAP showed that there was a large
increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became available, appreciably increasing



                                                       Page 16

the ICMS revenue to municipalities. This observation is also applicable to purchases of items such as agricultural
machinery and irrigation equipment.

3. Technical

The technical viability o f the project has been demonstrated under the successful RPAP projects in the Northeast.
Investment cost estimates, physical contingencies, prices and estimates o f inputs and outputs are based on actual
historical data under the earlier project and thus are considered reliable. Technical standards of specific subprojects
will be ensured through standardized designs (including engineering aspects, technical, financial and economic
feasibility, O&M, simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters) that cover approximately 80 percent of
subproject types normally demanded by the communities. Field evidence demonstrates that these simple, practical
standards have enhanced subproject quality, sustainability and cost-effectiveness. All subprojects will be screened
by qualified staff in NEPE and communities can contract technical assistance(up to 8 percent of subproject value) to
assist in design and implementation of subprojects. Training programs are also being offered to develop community
capacity to prepare, implement, operate and maintain projects, as well as acquaint them with existing environmental
regulations at the state and federal level.

4. Institutional:

4.1 Executingagencies

NEPE will be responsible for day-to-day coordination and management of Components 1,2 and 4 of the project, and
GEPLAN for Component 3 (Horizontal Integration). Municipal Councils will undertake resource allocation and
subproject prioritization, with community associations identifying and managing subproject implementation.
Partnerships will also be established with civil society (including NGOs) and State and Municipal puhlic agencies to
respond to communities' subproject implementationneeds.

NEPE: is a semi-autonomous agency of GEAGRO. There will be a high-level Steering Council -- the State Council
for Sustainable Rural Development -- to supervise the global execution of the proposed project. The Council will
provide guidance on the overall scope and the annual operating plan (POA). NEPE will have sufficient financial and
administrative autonomy to flexibly operate the project, and will provide it with a network of infrastructure and
human resources both at central and regional levels (e.g., through the CAFs) consistent with its responsibilities.

Municipal Councils: are membership organizations with 60% of voting members representing beneficiary
associations and civil society organizations, and 40% representing the public sector. They may be established as
legally constituted civil organizations or through Municipal decree, and have administrative and financial autonomy
from the Municipal Government. A total of 216 Municipal Councils have been established in Maranhiio under the
RPAP. B y providing a link to municipal government, the Municipal Councils play a critical role in embedding the
community-based process in formal channels and are essential for buildinginstitutional sustainability of the project.
In the new project, Councils will assume additional responsibilities, including oversight of community O&M of
investments; an increasing role in subproject approval, and as facilitators linking communities with external
financial partners and other programs. A focus of the new project will be training communities to assume these new
responsibilities. I n particular, additional money will be made available for Municipal Councils to appoint technical
advisors, mobilize communities, and provide assistance and informationduring implementation.

Community Associations: are legally constituted civil associations that serve as the foundation o f project
implementation. Under the RPAP, beneficiary community associations demonstrated that they can be efficient and
cost-effective agents for their own development. Charging the communities with primary responsibility for the
implementation, operation and maintenance of their own subprojects has been found to enhance quality and
reinforce community ownership. The new project will build on the latent capacity of community associations and
develop and reinforce it by making available funds for direct contracting o f technical assistance, as well as training
programs to develop basic financial and administrative skills.        For subproject-related assistance in design and
implementation, associations can contract technical assistance using up to 8 percent of subproject costs.




                                                      Page 17

4.2 Procurement issues(see Annex 6):

Procurement systems have beenreviewed by Bank specialists and are considered satisfactory.

4.3 Financial managementissues(see Annex 6):

Financial management systems have been reviewed by Bank specialists and are considered satisfactory.

5. Environmental:                             Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)

5.1 Summarize the steps undertakenfor environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issuesand their treatment emerging from this analysis.

An EMP was prepared with the assistance of current and former personnel from the State Management Unit for the
Environment and Natural Resources (GEMA), extensive discussions with NEPE staff, the analysis of technical
documents regarding the environment in Maranhilo, and field visits to potential beneficiary communities.          The
proposed project has been assigned a "B"environmental classification. An Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS)
has been prepared and both the ISDS and EMP were reviewed by the LCSES Quality Assurance Team prior to
appraisal. Environmental Checklists -incorporated into the Project Operational Manual under the predecessor
project RPAP - have been adapted and updated for the proposed project, for use in subproject preparation by
potential beneficiary community associations. These checklists would be completed by community associations,
with assistance from a technical specialist when necessary, to identify potential adverse environmental impacts from
subproject investments and methods to mitigate them.

The EMP includes a representative sample of RPAP subprojects and indicates that, due to their small scale, the
likelihood o f significant adverseenvironmental impact is very small. Inthe few cases where subproject investments
could generate a localized negative impact, these would be detected in the Environmental Checklist and actions
taken to address such impacts.

The project will also promote improved environmental management and sustainability through: (i)      capacity-building
of Municipal Councils and Community Associations to take environmental issues into consideration during local
planning processes, (ii)financing subproject investments in natural resource management and environmental
restoration, and (iii)supporting the adoption of technologies by small-scale producers which also seek to minimize
environmental impact. As stated earlier, the Municipal Councils will serve as conduits for information-sharing (from
both the State and NGOs) on environmental issues o f interest to the municipality and region.

5.2 What are the main features of the EMPand are they adequate?

The EMP is based on the environmental legislation in Maranhilo, is consistent with Bank safeguard policies and
identifies three lines of action for the proposed project: (i)control and minimization of negative environmental
impacts o f individual subprojects to be financed; (ii)inclusion o f subprojects aimed at conservatiodpreservation o f
the environment, and the enhanced integration of environmental awareness within all subprojects, as well as the
piloting of regional subprojects which cut across several municipalities to address common issues (e.g., regional
watershed management in the Vale do Magu and protection activities in the Parque Mirador); and (iii)        systematic
and comprehensive environmental training, over the course of the proposed project, for all stakeholders. More
specifically, all financed subprojects would first be classified according to the potential for adverse environmental
impact, using various diagnostic tools (e.g., environmental checklist, participative assessment). Mitigating measures
would then correspond to the identified risk. Standard subproject designs (projetos padrdo) would use technologies
and specifications which protect, recover, improve or conserve (as needed) environmental resources. Demonstration
projects would be implemented in selected communities and municipalities as examples of such environmentally-
friendly technologies and practices.

The focus on capacity building of stakeholders for environmental issues is a main feature of the EMP, since
implementation of this activity will not only influence environmental sustainability o f project-financed investments,
but also that of investments made by the municipalities usingother sources o f funds.




                                                    Page 18

Discussions between GEMA and the Project team have resulted in an understanding that GEMA and NEPE will
work closely to develop simplified licensing procedures, including the possibility o f group licenses by theme and/or
geographical location, in order to expedite subproject implementation and foster environmental compliance by
individual subprojects.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and statusof EA:

Date of receipt of final draft: 10/30/2003

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stageof (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA report
on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms of
consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Stakeholders were consulted via a series of qualitative interviews. NEPE project staff, personnel from GEMA, as
well as Federal level staff from the Ministry of the EnvironmentIIBAMA took part in discussions of the
environmental implications resulting from the proposed project and the ways in which they would be addressed
through project activities.

Duringthe preparationof the EMP, consultations were held with several relevant localNGOs. The final copy of the
EMP was distributed to them as well as to key government agencies. The EMP is also available on NEPE's website
(www.nepe.ma.gov.br).

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment?Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults of the E M P ?

The EMP proposes a systematic monitoring of each subproject investment for its potential and actual environmental
impacts. First, a regional study will assess the environmental impact of a given set o f financed subprojects. The
design and methodology of the study will draw on the technical expertise o f GEMA, in coordination with NEPE and
the CAFs. Additionally, follow-up assessments will be made at regular intervals following the implementation of
subprojects and would form part of the project's overall mid-term review. Such monitoring reports would be an
extension of the current MIS, which already functions satisfactorily in documenting each step in the subproject
cycle.

6. Social:

6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The project seeks to improve the quality of life of the target population through small-scale investments under a
CDD approach, thereby increasing the social capital of rural communities via their participation at all levels of the
subproject cycle. Under the project's participatory approach, the wide inclusion o f all potential beneficiaries,
including women and minorities, would be assured through a state-wide information campaign designed to create
awareness regarding the project's objective, operating guidelines and how to access project benefits. Identification
and implementation o f specific subprojects would occur through demand-driven mechanisms at the community
level.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?

Rural communities have generated the demand for the new project, and will dictate the types o f subprojects to be
financed, in accordance with the CDD delivery mechanism. Evaluations o f the R-NRDP and RPAP validate this
finding (see Annex 11). In the Mid-term Review of RPAP, and other evaluations, strong demand for subproject
investments has been observed. High levels of beneficiary satisfaction, as well as strong economic impact of local
investments, were recorded.




                                                   Page 19

Apart from meeting basic community investment needs, a major achievement of the program to date has been to
foster the creation o f social capital within rural municipalities and communities. This accumulation of social capital
has increased with the proliferation of the project Municipal Councils (Le., CMDRSs), which have provided a new,
representative and transparent forum for local government and community representatives to discuss and prioritize
investment proposals. B y affording rural communities the opportunity to address their needs through participatory
decision-making and oversight, the Municipal Councils have succeeded in: (i)         reducing clientelism and political
interference; (ii)strengthening the capacity of both communities and municipal governments to select, prioritize and
implement investment decisions; (iii)creating partnerships between communities, Municipal Councils and
municipal governments and more generally, increased the community voice in the use of public resources; and (iv)
fostering citizenship through increased awareness of the social responsibilities of citizens, their representatives and
public authorities incivic matters.

6.3 How does the project involve consultationsor collaborationwith NGOsor other civil society
organizations?

MaranhHo has a rich set of NGOs and other representatives of civil society, many of which were consulted during
project preparation. Among these are: Associac;HoBrasileira das RBdios Comunitkias MaranhHo, Chritas Brasileira
(Regional MaranhHo), Coletivo das Mulheres Trabalhadoras Rurais do MaranhHo e Pastoral da Mulher, AMAVIDA,
Instituto do Homem, AssociaqHo das Comunidades Negras Rurais Quilombolas do MaranhHo (ACONERUQ), Sitio
Ecol6gico Praia do Barco, FederaGiio dos Trabalhadores na Agricultura do Estado do MaranhHo (FETAEMA) e
Sociedade Maranhense de Defesa dos Direitos Humanos (SMDDH). These consultations touched on the respective
coverage areas and objectives of the respective organizations throughout the State, their past and present experience
working in partnership with both government and non-governmental organizations, their institutional capacity and
their evaluation o f the RPAP and suggestions for improvements which could be incorporated into the proposed
project.

Additionally, all subprojects are identified, prepared, implemented (including procurementtcontracting o f works),
supervised, operated and maintained by community associations. Funds are directly disbursed to community
associations, which also contribute up to 10percent of subproject costs. Intermediary NGOs, private firms and other
civil groups may provide technical assistance, facilitate information dissemination to community associations and
assist in mobilization and organization of communities. Local government participates in Municipal Council
meetings, and directly facilitates the work of these councils. NEPE offers capacity-building and training to
community associations and municipal councils to foster and enhance social capital, as well as to maximize the
inclusion in the project of those groups which have been traditionally isolated (e.g., indigenous, Quilombos,
women). NEPE also forges links with a cadre of Federal, State and Municipal agencies to leverage mobilization,
training and specialized expertise in project activities.

6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achievesits social
development outcomes?

Experience under the RPAP shows that Municipal Councils have promoted inclusion o f all social groups. For
example, Municipal Councils and community associations had a strong representation o f women and minority
groups. In the proposed project, the policies of open access to program benefits, and widely dispersed information
regarding programrules (using the information campaign) will be continued.

To further increase project impact, the following changes are being implemented to strengthen transparency and
social inclusion: (a) higher levels of funding for the poorest municipalities, as determined by the municipal HDI; (b)
training of Municipal Councils in targeting, with performance incentives for reaching the poorest; and (c) promote
sustainability through a strategy for linking communities to local governments, alternative funding from financial
institutions and to other programs.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?

Under the Horizontal Integration component, the State will put in place a means of tracking the impact o f public
expenditures as they contribute to increasing the HDI for MaranhHo. The project MIS will monitor subproject
implementation, as well as the number and location o f beneficiaries. The MIS will track community mobilization


                                                       Page 20

activities, training courses offered for CMDRSs, as well as periodic supervision o f subprojects in situ. Annual
physical performance reviews over the course of the project will assess, inter alia, the participatory approach
pursued under the project, making recommendations where needed. Also, the overall project impact evaluation will
assess the poverty targeting of project benefits, household welfare and social capital formation, at both the
community and municipal level.

7. SafeguardPolicies:

7.1 Are any of the foIlowing safeguardpoliciestriggered by the project?

                                  Policy                                                 Applicability
 Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP4.01, GP 4.01)                                          Yes
 Natural Habitats (OP4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                                   N o
 Forestry (OP4.36, GP4.36)                                                                     N o
 PestManagement (OP4.09)                                                                       N o
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                                 No
 IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20)                                                                  Yes
 Involuntary Resettlement(OPBP4.12)                                                            N o
 Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                                              No
 ProjectsinInternational Waters (OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                                     N o
 ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GP7.60)"                                             N o

7.2 Describeprovisionsmadeby the project to ensure compliancewith applicablesafeguardpolicies.

Environmental Assessment (see 5.1 and 5.2 above)

IndigenousPeoples

An indigenous population of about 19,000 (about 0.3 percent of total state population) is distributed across 17
indigenous lands in Maranhfio, all of which have been officially demarcated by the National Indigenous Foundation
(FUNAI). The most numerous group - Araib6ia - has 3,292 inhabitants and resides in the municipality of
Amarante. Cana Brava Guajajara - situated within the municipalities o f Barra do Corda and Grajali - i s the second-
most populous group, with 3,143 inhabitants.

While the RPAP was itself based on principles o f social inclusion for all potential beneficiaries in the rural space,
the project made special efforts to stimulate the participation of indigenous populations, particularly through training
events aimed at the construction of sustainable development strategies for these communities. To this end, since
1998, some 85 subprojects were proposed and financed in indigenous communities, benefiting approximately 25
percent of the total indigenous population. This outreach to the indigenous population proved successful, in that
through a demand-driven process statewide, they were able to capture a level o f subprojects that was three times
their relative weight in the overall population.  Additionally, NEPE has placed on staff an Indigenous Specialist in
order to ensure proper and consistent treatment of indigenous issues and develop methods to further expand the
participation of indigenous groups throughout the state in the project.

Incompliance with OD4.20, a draft plan for the participationof indigenous peoples inthe project has been prepared
by the State. The Plan benefits from the experience of the RPAP and discussions with NGOs involved in this
subject, and is available to the public and on NEPE's website (www.nepe.ma.gov.br).




                                                     Page 21

F.Sustainability andRisks

1.Sustainability:

Institutional sustainability: Both the R-NRDP and the RPAP indicate that, by delegating greater responsibility and
influence to local-level organizations and municipal governments, the proposed project can successfully support
decentralized resource allocation and social capital creation in rural MaranhHo. The new project will link the project
councils to local municipal planning and budgeting processes and programs, as well as alternative credit and
financial services.   The sustainability of NEPE i s quite strong, given the experience that its core technical team
already brings to rural development activities and its broad involvement in other State and Federal supported
programs, and because of the technical and administrative capacity and autonomy with which it has been formally
established as the State Technical Unit for the project. The project's horizontal component will also contribute to
the long-term institutional sustainability of project interventions by supporting MaranhHo's efforts to introduce
results-based management and integration of development efforts and State and municipal levels.

Financial sustainability: Financial analysis and field investigation confirm the sustainability of the investment
subprojects funded by the R-NRDP and RPAP programs. A sample o f over 8,000 community subprojects in those
Northeast States which executed RPAP projects as o f 1995 (under the R-NRDP) and 1997198 (under RPAP) was
reviewed in 2000. Eighty-nine percent of these subprojects were fully operational. Analysis of productive
subprojects revealed that cost recovery through user fees by beneficiary associations was adequate to cover both
operation and maintenance and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful economic
life. The preparation mission observed that the investments carried out under the RPAP in Maranhlo continued to be
operated and managed in a satisfactory manner by the beneficiary communities with their own contributions, and
continued satisfying community needs.

Physical sustainability: Beneficiary participation at all stages of the subproject cycle, together with significant
levels of community counterpart contribution, help to ensure subprojects are maintained. Further, the democratic
process intrinsic to project participatory municipal councils ensures better selection and prioritization of subprojects
by beneficiaries, enhancing long-term sustainability. The proposed project requires the establishment of community-
funded O&M plans and subproject maintenance would be monitored by Municipal Councils and NEPE during
implementation. Performance incentives for proper O&M are included in project design.




                                                     Page 22

2. Critical Ris                             -
                          Risk               Risk                           RiskMinimization Measure
                                             Rati
                                              ng
From Outputs      Subprojects do not        N          Focus of 60% of subproject resources on the poorest 80 of Maranhgo's
to Objective      target the rural poor                216 municipalities. Introduction of HDIcriteria for subproject selection.
                                                       Training of CMDRSs and introduction o f performance incentives for
                                                       proper targeting.

                  Communities do not        N          Information dissemination of project guidelines and processes.
                  effectively prioritize               Provision of technical assistanceto promote social inclusion. Short
                  needs                                negative list of subprojects ineligible for funding.

                  Erosion of local, state   M            Continued demonstrated success of the program reinforcing ownership
                  and national political                 at all levels. Strengthen links between CMDRSs and local government
                  support for CDD                        for mutual benefit.

                  Politicization of         M          Membership of CMDRS with voting rights comprises 60% of
                  CMDRSs                               beneficiary representatives and civil society. Use of Information
                                                       Technology for e-transparency.

                  Community                 M          Systematic training and TA to both community associations and
                  Associations and                     CMDRSs targeted at specific needs associated with subproject
                  CMDRSs unable to                     implementation, 0 & M. Standard designs and cost criteria will be
                  implement and manage                 provided for most types o f subprojects.     Technical and environmental
                  quality subprojects.      -          assessment and oversight for all subprojects.

Project         0 Inadequate andor          M           Shared counterpart funding responsibilities by State, local government
Components        untimely flow of                     and beneficiaries. Continued efforts to reduce transaction costs
to outputs        counterpart funds                    affecting timely flow o f funds.

                0  Insufficient             H            Contratosde adesEo between municipal government and the State will
                   integration of                        identify local-level investment demands and serve to mobilize the
                   activities during                     relevant resources, both human and financial. Regional Management
                   project execution                     Units and CAFs will contribute to this process.

                0 CMDRSsnot                 N           Strict enforcement of project requirement that beneficiary associations
                  representative of                    pluscivil society representatives comprise 60% of CMDRS
                  constituents                          membership.      Communities informed of the project rules relating to
                                                        transparency, democracy and accountability.

                   CMDRSs not given         M            Close Bank supervision of NEPEadherence to project rules
                   clear indicative                      concerning indicative budgets.
                   budgets for decision
                   making                    -
                   Technical assistance      M           Fundsfor TA are provided to CMDRSs and communities, and they are
                   services not available                informed of funding availability. Appointment of salaried Technical
                   or not used by                        Advisor to each CMDRS, paid by project funds. NEPE will prepare
                   CMDRSs and                            and disseminate a list of reliable, experienced TA providers for
                   communities                           community and CMDRS use. Seminar to encourage local service

                                             -           provider participation in the project.

                   Subprojects not of        M           Subproject proposals to include an 0 & Mplan, to be monitored by the
                   sufficient quality nor                CMDRS. Performance incentives inproject design to ensure O&M
                   properly maintained                   compliance by associations.

Overall Project RiskRating                   Modest
Risk Rating - H(High Risk), S (Substantial I ik), M (Modest Risk),N(Negligib1e or Low Risk)




                                                      Page 23

3. PossibleControversial Aspects:

None

G.Main LoanConditions

1.EffectivenessConditions

e   Adoption of Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank; and
    Terms of Reference for the project evaluation baseline study and overall evaluation framework, satisfactory to
    the Bank.

H.Compliance with BankPolicies

1.This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.




                                                                                           Vinod Thomas, Director
      Task Team Leader                       Sector M&agement UnitJ                   Brazil-Country Management Unit
                                           Environmentally and Socially               Latin America and the Caribbean
                                             Sustainable Development                               Region




                                                   Page 24

                                                      Annex 1
                                                       Brazil
                        Maranhgo IntegratedProgram: RuralPoverty Reduction Project
                                            Project Design Summary

    Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy      Critical Assumptions
                                         Indicators
Sector related CAS Goal:                                                                      to Bank Mission)
Rural Poverty Reduction             Reduction in poverty        Annual economic         *(Goal
                                                                                            Relevance o f poverty
                                    incidence in rural          statistics (IMFWorld        indicators for actual
                                    areas                       Bank)                       prevalence o f rural
                                                                Poverty assessment          poverty.
                                                                reports (World Bank)
                                                                Census indicators
                                                                Government Economic
                                                                Reports.
                                                                Annual PNAD Data
Project Development                 Increase in statewide       GEPLAN                  (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                          and municipal HDIs          informatiodevaluation
Help State of Maranhiio achieve      attributable directly to   to track impact of          Macroeconomic shocks or
the goal of reducing poverty by     project technical           Government programs         natural disaster do not
increasing its HDIfrom 0.647 to     assistanceand               on the State's overall      eliminate poverty
0.700 by year 2007, through:
       . .                          investments;                progress indicators,        alleviation gains achieved
    strengthening the results-      Improvement in              principally the HDI.        by the program.
    basedmanagement capacity         State's capacity to        Project Impact
    at the State level for           achieve cross-sectoral     Evaluation                  Sufficient complement of
    planning, cross-sectoral        integration of public       NEPE Bi-annual              other resources (e.g.,
    integration, monitoring and                                 Progress Reports            health, education, credit)
    evaluation of public policies   policies and
                                                                MIS updates
    and investments in               investments, and to
                                                                Beneficiary surveys
    Maranhtio's PPA;                effectively plan,
                                    monitor and evaluate        MaranhHo-specific
                                                                socio-economic
    supporting cross-sectoral        its PPA;                   development indicators
    integration of development      Number of families          for rural areadpoverty
    actions at the municipal and    benefited by project        Municipal Council
    local levels through the         activities;                Reports
    design and implementation       # community
    of integrated municipal          subprojects approved
    development plans (PMDI)         following the criterion
    and the introduction of          of impact on HDI;
    State-municipal                  increase in total
    performance agreements;         project and non-
                                    project financing
    financing demand-driven         allocated through
    community investments for       project municipal
    income-generation, health       councils;
    and sanitation, education,      Number of State-
    culture, the environment and    municipal
    other investments impacting     performance
    the HDI; and                    agreementsunder
                                    implementation and
    strengthening municipal-        achieving a positive
    level governance through        impact on cross-
    the participation of            sectoral integration



                                                     Page 25

   community associations and      and investment
   municipal councils in           effectiveness at
   decisions that are directly     municipal and local
   related to improvements in      levels;
   the living conditions of the    incremental
   rural poor, and through         employment generated
   capacity-building focused on    from subproject
   integration o f environmental   investments;
   sustainability issues i n the
   decision-making process.        increase in social
                                   welfare of rural
                                   communities;
                                   increase in social
                                   capital index of project
                                   municipal councils;
                                   #project municipal
                                   councils participating
                                   inpriority-setting and
                                   decision-making on
                                   resource allocation of
                                   proj. and non-proj.
                                   funded development
                                   activities;
                                   # communities
                                   graduated from the
                                   program and
                                    successfully linked to
                                    other financing.
outputs:                                                                           (Outputsto Objective)
   Social, economic and            #, type of subprojects    NEPEBi-annual            Subprojects will target the
   productive infrastructure       # subprojects              Progress Reports        rural poor
   implemented and                  operating and well        MIS                     Communities effectively
   maintained.                      maintained two years     WB Supervision Reports   prioritize needs
                                    after completion          Municipal Council       Continued political suppor
   Community associations           Cost-effectiveness and    reports                 at local, state and nationa
   organizing to meet own           quality of subprojects    GEPLANevaluations       level for community basec
   needs.                          Economic efficiency,                               approach
                                    financial viability of                            Community       associations
   Responsive Municipal             productive subprojects                            and municipal councils are
   Councils setting and             [#CAS]/                                           able to implement good
   achieving local priorities.      [# communities in                                 quality subprojects.
                                    project area]                                     Councils are not politicized
   Improved monitoring of           Growth of number of                               by Municipal government
   efficiency and impact of         CAS
   public investments to reduce     #subproject proposals
   rural poverty.                   submitted/year
                                    %women in
                                    CMDRSss, CAS
                                    #CASparticipating in
                                    CMDRSs which don't
                                    have subprojects




                                                    Page 26

ProjectComponentsISub         Inputs: (budgetfor each                         (Componentsto Outputs)
components:                   component)
1. Community subprojects       1. US$36.0 M             NEPE bi-annual        e  Timely flow o f counterpart
                                                        Progress Reports and     funds to NEPE
2. Institutional Development  2. US$ 2.0 M              WB bi-annual          e  Subprojects will be high
                                                        Supervision missions     quality and sustainable
3. Horizontal Integration      3. US$ 1.0M                                    e  Municipal Councils are
                                                                                 representative of
4. Project Adm., Supervision, 4. US$ 1.0M                                        constituents
   Monitoring and Evaluation                                                   e Municipal Councils have
                                                                                 clear indicative budgets for
                                                                                 effective decision making
                                                                              e  TA services available and
                                                                                 usedby Municipal
                                                                                 Councils and communities
                                                                               e Subprojects will be
                                                                                 maintained
                                                                               e Sufficient integration of
                                                                                 activities during project
                                                                            -execution




                                              Page 27


Horizontal integration will occur both at the local level, through the coordination of investments (whether within the
proposed project or not) via municipal development plans and state-municipal agreements, and at the central level,
through the planning and budgeting functions of the State Government (e.g., through GEPLAN). From the
perspective of Bank projects, integration will be pursued both at the planning level, through the Bank building a
shared understanding with the State Government of the state's development strategy and execution mechanisms,
specifically through the horizontal component, and at the local level, through the activities of the municipal councils
indeciding local investment priorities across sectors.

This horizontal integration will strengthen three objectives within GEPLAN:

     1. Integration of program execution at the local and central levels of government;
     2.   Monitoring of program execution (inputs, activities, outputs); and
     3.   Evaluation o f program results, impact on the HDI, and results-based decision making.

In addition to technical services, Bank support for the component will focus on delivering further technical value-
added through advice and seminars. Initial seminars have already taken place in September, November and
December 2003, creating an exchange of experience and good practice inresults-based management among Brazil's
Northern and Northeastern states.       Further work going forward will include training provided to Maranhiio
government officials by WBI and OED, in 2004 and similar activities planned for the future. This component will
also be carefully coordinated with any activities initiated under the Inter-American Development Bank's
management support to MaranhHo (e.g., under the new national project PNAGE).

Project Components

Project Component 1-Community Subprojects (US$36.0 million or 90 percent of total project costs):

The component will support community matching grants (up to US$50,000 each) for small-scale socio-economic
infrastructure, education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments aimed at raising HDIs. I t
is expected that approximately 1,200 subprojects will be financed under this component. Using the HDI-M as a
mobilizing goal, the component will establish mechanisms for local-level integration of project activities, with other
Municipal, State and Federal programs, to increase those indicators which constitute the HDI-M. Community
associations determine their local investment priorities, based on their own choices and information provided to
them concerning the State's HDIobjective and the priorities under the PPA, and will prepare subproject proposals
for investment financing.    These proposals will then be forwarded to their CMDRS, which would match these
investment demands with available funding, both from project and non-project sources, their expected contribution
toward improvement of HDI-M, and their compatibility with the Municipal Plan for Integrated Development
(PMDI). The subproject proposals will be assessed by NEPE for technical, economic, financial and environmental
viability. Subproject agreements are then signed between NEPE and community associations. These agreements
spell out the terms and conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved
subprojects. Once approved, funds for subproject implementation will be transferred to the bank account of the
respective community association. A majority of voting CMDRS members (at least 60%) will represent potential
beneficiary communities while the remaining 40% representation would be from other organized civil society (e.g.,
STR, NGOs), and public sector entities.

Fundingunder Component 1will be allocatedacrossparticipating municipalities inthe following manner:

Area 1: where 60% of total component cost will be concentrated inthe 80 rural municipalities with the lowest HDI-
M. For these municipalities, special strategies will be adopted by State government to ensure a concentration of
financial resources and public policies, integrated at the local-level, in order to bring about a sustained increase in
HDI-Min these municipalities. The Horizontal Integration (Component 3 of the project) will be the primary
instrument to both mobilize and coordinate these integrated activities in the Area 1municipalities.

Area 2: where the remaining 40 percent o f Component 1 resources will be allocated to the remaining 136 rural
municipalities of the project area, where, in addition to the specific subproject investments, the component in Area 2
(as in Area 1) will be catalytic for these municipalities and their CMDRSs to focus on cross-sectoral integration, on
the HDIsand strengthening local and municipal institutional arrangements.


                                                      Page 29

Subproject proposals for all forms of investment would observe standard procedures, documentation and technical,
economic, environmental and sustainability criteria set forth in a detailed Project Operational Manual. A short
negative list2 of subproject types ineligible for financing will be enforced, with particular emphasis on the
application o f rigorous eligibility criteria for productive subprojects to ensure proper targeting, and financial
sustainability of this form of investment3, also included in the Project Operational Manual. Prior to negotiations, the
Bank reviewed a complete draft of the Project Operational Manual. Adoption of this revised Project Operational
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, is a conditionof loan effectiveness.

Targeting. In practice, the project will focus on the 2.7 million people living in the rural space, defined as those
communities with up to 7,500 inhabitants, in 216 municipalities throughout the State o f Maranhao (Le., all
municipalities except that of Si50 Luis). The targeted municipalities are divided into two groups according to
poverty levels measured by municipal HDI. Sixty percent of total subproject resources will be concentrated in the
80 municipalities (with a total rural population of 1.1 million) which have the lowest HDIs statewide. For these
municipalities, an indicative budget envelope under the project, averaging US$270,000 per municipality, will be
available over the four-year period.              For the remaining 136 municipalities (with a total rural population o f 1.6
million), 40% of total subproject resources will be allocated, yielding an average indicative budget envelope under
the project of US$79,000 per municipality. For both of these groups, additional non-project resources will be
mobilized under the local-level integration pursued by the CMDRSs and encouraged under the Horizontal
Integration component. Overall, the 1,200 subprojects expected to be financed directly under the project will benefit
some 80,000 families (or about 15% of the "rural space" population).

Municipal Councils will be responsible for community targeting. This will be supported in various ways: (1)
providing the Councils an annual budget figure for the resources available to finance subprojects in their respective
municipalities; (2) asking Councils to carry out poverty ranking exercises o f the communities based on assessed
needs and an inventory o f community assets, and providing them with technical assistance to do so; (3) widely
disseminating information about project activities, particularly among the poorest communities so as to promote
their presentation o f subproject ideas and their participation in Council meetings; and (4) direct advocacy,
encouraging Councils to prioritize poor communities. The effectiveness o f this methodology will be assuredby the
establishment o f clear and transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning. Continual implementation
and revision of the information campaign for the project will also be used to expand opportunities for participation
of the poorest communities in the target area. This information on project eligibility and procedures will be targeted
to potential beneficiary communities to create a level playing field for access to project funds and to stimulate
demand from potential beneficiaries across the state.                    Some communities already have significant levels of
organization, either traditionally or from previous development projects in the area, and are poised to benefit
immediately from the project. However, for those less organized communities, the project, through its institutional
development component, would actively extend mobilization assistance through the services of NGOs or accredited
agents who know the communities well and can serve as catalysts for organization (refer to component 2 described
below).

Inorder to be eligible to receive funding under the project - in compliance with BrazilianLaw - beneficiaries must
form legally-constituted civil associations (or 'community associations').                           Disbursements to the beneficiary
associations will occur through agreements @rotocolo de intenqdes) with NEPE, as per model agreements
developed under the predecessor RPAP. These agreements are included in the Project Operational Manual for the
new project. Beneficiary associations will be required to contribute either in cash, kind or labor, a minimum of 10
percent (but not more than 20 percent) of the subproject cost, and will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the investments. The minimum level of contributions expected from the beneficiaries,
municipalities and the State Government is specified in a cost-sharing matrix detailed in the Project Operational
Manual.




 Those subprojectsineligiblefor funding include production of alcohol, tobacco and drugs, churches, and facilities for political activities.
  Productive subprojects, as with infrastructure and social subprojects,must be property of the association as a whole and not of select members.
Foreach type ofproductivesubproject, a set of operational guidelines (regdamentode    KSO),  developed by the STU, would be provided to the
associationfor adoption. Inaddition, each subproject proposal must identify the source of technical assistance for subproject implementationand
subsequent operation.

                                                                 Page 30

Areas of Increased Emphasis

Education and Health: Under the project, the Component will encourage community investments that (i)           increase
access to and the quality of grades one to four of primary education; (ii)    reduce illiteracy and promote functional
literacy by integrating literacy with productive/income-generationactivities; (iii)   reduce infant mortality; and (iv)
decrease maternal mortality. The result of these activities would be an expected positive impact on three of the four
variables (i.e., life expectancy, literacy and school attendence) from which the HDIis calculated. Specific activities
will include:

     Literacy and Basic Educationfor ages 15 and higher: the project will provide a means by which communities
     can access two programs for youth and adult education. Vamos Ler (Let's Read), developed through the State
     Management Unit for Human Development (GDH) will provide basic literacy training and an equivalency
     curriculum for primary grades one to four. The financing o f the "education package" would be borne by GDH
     and the respective municipality, with the community contributing (through the proposed project) in the
     construction o f the school, as well as ensuring the continued attendence of those enrolled. The second program
     -PRONERA-has,inthepast,beenprimarilyimplementedinagrarianreformsettlements. PRONERAisa14
     month program which follows an equivalency curriculum up to primary grade two. Communities will select
     instructors based on established criteria (Le., completion of grades 1-8, community residency).

     Escola Ativa: the project will support the adoption, among existing rural primary schools for grades one to four,
     of the education methodology already field-tested in Colombia and known there as Escuela Nueva (the New
     School). The facets of this methodology include self-learning approaches that minimize reliance on student-
     teacher interaction for working pupils and strong community participation. Under the project, the following
     will be eligible for subproject financing: (i)school construction and rehabilitation, (ii)purchase of learning
     materials and resources, (iii)  student learning packages (kit do aluno); and (iv) funding for implementation of a
     Strategic Education Plan (PDE). Other Escola Ativa activities and those responsible are detailed in the table
     below.

     Table 1: ActivitiesUnder Escola Ativa




Life (GEVIDA), with goods financed by the project.

Health: As in the case of activities in the Education sector, health-related investments under the Project should
contribute to the improvement o f health indicators, especially those which more significantly impact the HDI-M
(e.g., reduction in infant and maternal mortality). Concentrating in the 80 municipalities o f Area 1, the Component
will support the following activities: (i) basic equipment and essential materials to increase the capacities o f Family
Health workers; (ii)construction of water and sanitation systems to prevent and reduce water-borne diseases; (iii)
local-level vaccination programs; and (iv) community health education activities.




                                                       Page 31

Ta




Environment: The proposed project will support environmental activities that would also result in positive impacts
on quality of life and incomes of rural communities. Specifically, three lines of actions would be pursued:

     Environmental community subprojects, which will be based on communities' own initiatives and on those
     generated on the basis of information provided by the Government through the CMDRSs.                  Community
     associations will propose (following procedures similar to those of the RPAP in MaranhHo) subproject
     investments to their respective CMDRSs, which will then prioritize them, applying the criteria o f expected
     contribution to HDI, sustainable natural resource management and alignment with the PMDI.

     Demonstration subprojects, which will test environmentally appropriate technologies for production activities.
     Both GEMA and GEAGRO already have a knowledge base of such technologies which can be deployed for
     rural production.   Under the project, NEPE, through its CAFs throughout the state, will consult with the
     CMDRSs to build awareness of these technologies, after which the CMDRSs would (i)         identify interested rural
     producers who would voluntarily adopt and implement said technologies and (ii)      draft and submit a subproject
     proposal for needed financing and technical assistance.

     Regional and territorial subprojects, which will involve more than one municipality and focus on
     environmental sustainability at the regional level. Under Component 1, a pilot of 2-4 subprojects will take
     place, which will then be evaluated with the intent of assessing the positive outcomes from this experience and
     determining whether scaling-up is warranted.         At present, a consortia of municipalities have notionally
     identified three potential territorial subprojects: (i)the Rio Magu watershed; (ii) Bacia do Rio Munim; and
                                                                                         the
     (iii) municipalitiessurroundingtheParqueEstadualdoMirador.
         the

Culture: Under Component 1, the project will seek to strengthen and sustain cultural heritage inMaranhao through
activities which address the dual aspects o f culture as social and productive capital. The first aspect - social capital
-takescultureto beawell ofcommonknowledge andvalues that create sharedmeanings andsupportsthe social
fabric of a community. Activities that address social capital would include activation o f cultural heritage and its
associated values and also the recognition, strengthening and diversification of the means o f transmission and
dissemination of that heritage (i.e., of the contents of culture). This encompasses ensuring access to heritage through
traditional, as well as newer mechanisms for socialization, such as the inclusion of the knowledge o f local culture in
school curricula. Regardingculture as productive capital, the project would emphasize the economic dimensions of
cultural activities, thus offering the possibility of positive impacts on income o f rural communities. These
dimensions include cultural production and management skills -training and support- and the usual components of
other productive activities that seek to generate income and employment opportunities in the rural space. Following


                                                       Page 32

the CDD approach, project beneficiaries would define cultural heritage for themselves and identify strategies for
strengthening culture and other significant aspectsof their cultural heritage.

Project Component 2 Institutional Development (US$2.0 million or 5 percent of total project costs):
                           -

The Institutional Development component will finance technical assistance and training, sufficient for each group
participating in project implementation to acquire the capabilities needed to effectively carry out its responsibilities.
This component will also finance the contracting of consultants and other entities to assist NEPE in monitoring,
supervision and evaluation tasks, and will provide technical assistance services to support State level modernization
and reform. This component will also support piloting of the use of information technology by community
associations and CMDRSs to increase transparency by making available, inreal time, information about the program
itself, as well as usingthe Internet to connect communities directly to markets, both inBrazil and internationally.

Using the demand-driven implementation mechanisms described in Component 1, the project consolidates
participatory institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels. In this process, well-organized
communities with sound, carefully prepared proposals are provided with financial support for investments. To
encourage this process and reinforce the decentralized implementation framework, technical assistance and training
will be provided for community associations, Municipal Councils, and NEPE, and other entities participating in the
project. Types of training and assistancewill include support to communities in organization, subproject preparation
and execution, and operation and maintenance techniques. Assistance will be provided to the CMDRSs to improve
decision-making capacities, and to create capacity for investment planning and financial administration. At NEPE,
training will also be provided to enhance project coordination and supervision skills.

The implementation of the institutional development component will be decentralized, and the provision o f and
accountability for technical assistance and training would occur increasingly at the local level. In particular, the
CMDRSs will play a critical role in overseeing the capacity-building activities for community associations in their
jurisdictions. Technical assistance will increasingly be provided by the CMDRSs, and a local technical advisor will
be competitively recruited for this purpose. The CMDRSs, provided with model terms of reference prepared by
NEPE, will contract technical assistance based on programs agreed with NEPE, and then release funds for that
purpose. Institutional development activities can be broadly categorized into five areas:

      mobilization assistance and trainingfor participating communities.Assistance will be organized and contracted
      by NEPE and Municipal Councils, to support the organization and strengthening of community associations,
      identification o f viable investments, subproject preparation, and operation and maintenance of investments. As
      done under the RPAP, specialized efforts will be pursued to both mobilize and encourage the participation of
      traditionally isolated populations (e.g., indigenous peoples, Quilombolas, women);

      capacity-building programsfor CommunityAssociations and Municipal Councils. Organized by NEPE, these
      programs will include intensive training on the role o f Municipal Councils, explanation of the Project
      Operational Manual guidelines, techniques for subproject evaluation and supervision, as well as related topics
      such as environmental assessment of subprojects, participatory planning and financial management. Under the
      new project all CMDRSs and community associations, with approved subprojects, will be required to
     participate in mandatory `introductory training' covering the above-mentioned topics.            In addition, the
      CMDRSs will be gradually equipped with computers to assist them inperformingtheir expanding functions;

     specialized skills training for all participating entities. Based on needs, local providers will be contracted by
     the STU, Municipal Councils and groups of community associations to provide expert advice and "on-the-job
     training", in areas such as investment-related technical support, the use of standard designs, monitoring
     techniques, and financial management;
     Environmental sustainability training. As an effort to encourage the further inclusion of environmental criteria
     in decision-making, especially as regards productive activities and infrastructure, the Component will support
     training and workshops for CMDRSs, Community Associations, GR representatives, as well as field staff of
     NEPE -primarily attached to the CAFs - and GEMA personnel; and
     workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, to exchange experience
     under the project. These "best practice" exchanges may also extend to seminars to forge links between all
     STUs of the ten Northeastern states, and to disseminate successful experiences across states.




                                                       Page 33

Project Component 3      -State  Governance and Capacity-building (Horizontal Integration) (US$l.O million or
2.5 percent of total project cost)

The component will support technicalassistance to the State of Maranhiio in promoting the integration of state- and
federal-level policies for poverty reduction and strengtheningthe managementcapacity of the State to better monitor
the impact of its public expenditures to reduce poverty in the rural space (See Project Scope above).        Figure 2
explains the integration of the proposedBank support to the State of Maranhiio that will be initiated by the proposed
project. Tables 3 and 4 summarize currently plannedactivities and costs in this component.



              A




         m

         r-l
         8




Table._Timeline and budget for ComDonent 3 activites
 _ _ _3:
             ~               Y


                                                                                  Amountsby year OR$l,OOO)
                                 Activity"                                   2003"    2004       2005   2006 Total
1. Developmentof the PPA 2004-2007                                             50                                50
2. Strengtheningof State Planning -                                            50       150      150      150    500
        Y       Y
3. Developmentand installation of monitoringand evaluation modulesof
SISPCA                                                                         100       -                 -     100




  SISPCA (Sistemade Planejamento, Coordenafiio, eAvaliapio); SIARI (SistemaInformatizado de Avaliagiio de
Impactos e Resultados);IEASE(Instituto de Estudos eAna'lises Sociais e Econdmicos). See annex 14 for details.

 These systems are denotedby the acronyms SIPLAN, SIAFEM and SIAGEM.

                                                    Page 34

    Table 4: Timeline and Budget, by Category
                                                               Amount by year (R$1,000)

                                   Category               2003"    2004     2005    2006     Total

                        1. Consulting                       100     550     800      300     1.750




                   "2


In addition to the above technical services, Bank support for the component will focus on delivering further
technical value-added through advice and seminars.


Project Component 4 -Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation(US$l.O million or 2.5 percent of total
project cost):

This component will support overall project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the
effectiveness and quality of project operations. I t will finance the operating costs o f NEPE (excluding salaries),
which is responsible for overall coordination o f project activities in partnership with community associations and
with Municipal Councils. As part of its duties, the STU will conduct an ongoing statewide information campaign to
continuously disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities,
thereby increasing awareness, transparency and participation in the program. The campaign will increase public
awareness about the project, and Municipal Councils and community associations will receive explanations about
the situation of their municipality with respect to the HDIand its various components, to help them in considering
sub-project alternatives and understanding the HDI criteria which will be used in the selection process. This
campaign will be organized in two phases: the first will take place during the launching o f the project and will be
oriented to disseminating widely its objectives and characteristics in the project area, while the second phase will
take place during the entire life of the proposed project and will be oriented to promoting as much implementation
transparency as possible, through the regular dissemination of information on all relevant activities and aspects of
the project. For this campaign, the project will finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and development
of the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including appropriate, simplified posters, leaflets, radio spots and
videos. A proposal for the statewide information campaign was reviewed prior to negotiations and considered
satisfactory to the Bank.

Given the importance o f supervision to the overall impact of the program, intense project supervision will be
maintained and one-half of its cost will be financed under this component. Project supervision will provide NEPE
with the necessary information on project performance to make managerial decisions, such as the provision of
technical assistance or training and the correction of departures from project guidelines. In line with the increasing
emphasis on decentralization under the new project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the local level will
be successively devolved to CMDRSs, with NEPE focusing on supervision of the Councils, 'spot-checks' of
community associations to verify performance, and overall project coordination. Each subproject will be supervised
at least three times: (i)after its approval and before the disbursement of funds, at which time the obligations of the
recipient community association will be clearly established; (ii)mid-way during the implementation of the
subproject; and (iii)at the end of the construction o f the works, in the case of infrastructure, when the finalization o f
the works will be certified. Supervision activities to be financed under the project include operational expenses for
field visits and subcontracted services from NGOs and other participating agencies.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The component will also finance the establishment o f a monitoring
system, including the maintenance and use of a Management Information System (MIS). This database will be
integrated with statewide information systems (e.g., SEPOC, SISPCA, SIARI) to facilitate monitoring by GEPLAN


                                                      Page 35

of the overall PPA and impact assessment of the project and broader State development efforts. To function as an
efficient management tool, the project MIS, originally designed under the RPAP, will be improved and made more
user-friendly and performance-oriented. I t will allow regional offices to enter data and monitor on-line real time
flow of subprojects. The MIS will be expanded to contain key technical, financial and socio-economic information
on subprojects (planned and actual), as well as cost and other physical indicators, and quantitative variables for
impact monitoring.      MIS-generated project reports, including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual
progress reports, would facilitate subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project performance.
The Horizontal Integration component will be monitored by GEPLAN via indicators which link project and non-
project expenditures to reduction in poverty in the rural space and statewide, measured by improvement in the HDI.
Project performance and impact indicators would be regularly updated to take stock of project implementation and
will be included in the semi-annual progress reports. A Project Implementation Plan and a matrix of Project
Performance Indicators were finalized and agreed during project preparation.          This component will finance
operating costs for monitoring activities, as well as finance experts in information technology and project
management: (a) to improve the MIS; and (b) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical parameters
from the most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a range of values for these indicators and
to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly. These adjustments are incorporated into the Project Operational
Manual.

The MIS is currently organized in three general levels: (a) a subproject information module, which contains
pertinent physical and financial information for each subproject; (b) a financial management module to monitor
financial execution o f the sub Projects and other components of the Project and from which the Financial Statements
in FMR format and the Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) will be generated; (c) a project management module,
from which all project reports are generated. Under the new project these three modules will be integrated to allow
improved monitoring of the entire subproject cycle. The database will include community profiles, and quantitative
variables relating to control groups, with the aim of improving the capacity to evaluate project impact. Finally, the
MIS allow real time data entry and monitoring on-line directly from the field and regional offices. NEPE will
continue to be responsible for maintaining and regularly updating the MIS, including key Project information (as
agreed with the Bank). Through periodic processing of the database information, combined with field visits and
inputs from project supervision reports, project contracted studies and audits, NEPE would monitor project
characteristics and trends, identify implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote
appropriate actions to improve project implementation. The Bank will also monitor project performance indicators
through the online MIS, and with inputs from the State, review monthly disbursement summaries and supervise
subproject implementation progress on a sample basis in the field. A MIS, satisfactory to the Bank, is already
operational.

Finally, the project will finance consultant services to develop and implement studies to evaluate the impact of the
subprojects and provide feedback to improve project operations, including the following:          (a) annual physical
performance reviews to assess the quality and sustainability of common types of financed subprojects, including
reviews of community-based procurement; (b) a mid-term evaluation/implementation review, to include
consultations on project performance and impact as perceived by its beneficiaries; (c) assessment of the activities
under the Horizontal Integration component on achieving cross-sectoral integration of public policies and
investments to reduce poverty; and (d) a rigorous and comprehensive evaluation o f the impact of the project in
raising Maranhiio's HDI. During project preparation, an execution timetable was agreed. Terms of Reference for
the aforementioned baseline study and an overall evaluationframework, both satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.

Project Coordination: NEPE, supported by GEAGRO's 18 regional offices (CAFs), will be responsible for overall
project coordination, with the following specific duties: (a) to appraise community subproject proposals for
compliance with project guidelines and eligibility criteria found in the Project Operational Manual; (b) to assess
community participation in identifying, preparing and executing subprojects and quality of technical assistance; (c)
to supervise the Municipal Councils to ensure they are adequately managing quality o f subproject implementation
and providing sufficient training support to communities; (d) to implement public information campaigns to
disseminate information about the project; (e) to implement introductory training and technical assistanceprograms
for all municipal councils and community associations with approved subprojects (to include training on subproject
implementation, contracting, operation and maintenance and financial management); (f) to monitor and apply
performance incentives to reward efficiency, transparency and inclusiveness o f community associations and
municipal councils, and also to penalize poor performance/misappropriation (e.g.,             legal action for fund



                                                      Page 36

misallocation)6; (g) to monitor project performance through the MIS and to periodically report progress related to
the project performance indicators; (h) to prepare annual implementation and physical performance reviews; and (i)
to submit project Annual Operating Plans to the Bank for approval. Using standardized cost indicators, reasonable
costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from standard designs would have to be fully
justified in the subproject proposal, as would proposed investments which fall outside the range of standardized
costs. Finally, NEPE will conduct a statewide information campaign to continuously disseminate information about
the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary communities, thereby increasing awareness, transparency
and participation in the program.

GEPLAN will coordinate Component 3 of the project (Horizontal Integration) and will (a) monitor the specific
contribution o f the subprojects financed under Component 1 to the goal of increasing MaranhPo's HDI, (b) assure
that the activities under the proposed project are consistent with the overall strategy of the State, regarding progress
toward improvements in HDI, and (c) maintain detailed information concerning investment programs at the Federal,
State and Municipal levels.

Project Oversight: The project will be overseen by GEPLAN, which will delegate project coordination and day-to-
day implementation responsibilities to NEPE, which has been formally established as the State Technical Unit
within the structure of the GEAGRO. NEPEwill implement the project inpartnership with Community Associations
and Municipal Councils. I t will receive and approve the Annual Operating Plans for the project Municipal Councils.
NEPE will be responsible for day-to-day project oversight with respect to monitoring, supervision of municipal
councils, evaluation and requiredreporting under the project.

Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:                    The Special Account will be established in a
commercial bank, and the project accounts will be maintained and audited annually in accordance with the audit
TORS. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the annual audit of the project accounts for
the period January 1 to December 31 of the year will be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30thin the year following the year for which the
projects accounts are audited. The Auditor's TOR will be based on current audit policies and practices for World
Bank financed activities. The audit reports will express a single opinion on the Project's accounts, on the SOE's
Statement including, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the
project`s legal agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. A special
opinion will be expressedon the Special Account.




  Detailedcriteriaand proceduresconcemingperformanceincentives and penalties are includedinthe Project Operational Manual.

                                                         Page 37

Table 5: Area 1Municipalities, HDI-Mand population
                                                         Total              HDI-
Municipio                   RegiHo                       Popn Urban   Rural    M
1. Arai6ses                 BAIXO PARNAiBA              34,906 9,134 25,7720.486
2. Santanado MaranhHo       BAIXO PARNAiBA              10,944 1,340  9,6040.488
3.  LagoaGrandedo MaranhHoPEDREIRAS                     8,469 2,862   5,6070.492
4. Centrodo Guilherme        ALTO TURI                  6,152 3,401   2,75 10.493
5.  GovernadorNewtonBello ALTO TURI                     11,804 2,678  9,1260.494
6. Beligua                  ITAPECURU                   5,253 1,829   3,4240.495
7. Matdesdo Norte           ITAPECURU                   7,435 2,134   5,2610.495
8.  FernandoFalcHo          CENTROMARANHENSE            4,823    731  4,0920.497
9. Brejode Areia            MEDIO MEARIM                10,418 2,064  8,3540.501
10. SHo Roberto             PEDREIRAS                   4,400 2,121   2,4630.502
11. PresidenteJuscelino     MUNIMELECOISMARANH          10,693 2,715  7,9780.506
12. PaulinoNeves            BAIXO PARNAiBA              11,526 3,413  8,1130.508
13. SHo JoHo do Caru        PINDA&                      13,495 3,156  10,3400.5 11
14. Santo Amaro             MUNIMELECOISMARANH          9,612 2,775   6,8370.512
15. BomJardim               PINDA&                      34,474 12,126 22,3480.515
16. Jenipapodos Vieiras     CENTROMARANHENSE            10,119 2,157  7,9420.516
17. Marajido Sena           MEDIO  MEARIM               7,161    725  6,4360.519
18. CachoeiraGrande         M U " ELECOISMARANH         7,383 2,852   4,5310.521
19. CantanhCde              ITAPECURU                   17,713 8,526  9,1870.522
20. SHo Jog0 do S6ter       LESTEMARANHENSE             14,834 4,442  10,3920.523
21. TufilPndia              P I N D ~                   5,527 2,049    3,4780.524
22. Timbiras                COCAIS                      26,401 13,954 12,447 0.524
23. Satubinha               PINDA&                      10,815 2,263   8,5520.525
24. TurilPndia              BAIXADA MARANHENSE          17,231 6,929  10,3020.526
25. MaranhHozinho            ALTO TURI                   8,445 5,114   3,3310.529
26. Agua Docedo MaranhHo BAIXOPARNAfBA                   9,703 2,747   6,9560.529
27. ConceiSHodo Lago Aqu    MEDIO  MEARIM               10,774 5,252   5 3220.529
28. Itaipavado Grajau       CENTROMARANHENSE            13,341 1,125  12,2160.532
29. Lago Verde              MEDIO  MEARIM               13,038 4,713   8,3250.533
30. SantaFilomena           PRESIDENTEDUTRA              4,667 1,623   3,0440.533
31. Senador AlexandreCosta PRESIDENTEDUTRA               8,571 4,944   3,6270.533
32. Joselhdia               PRESIDENTEDUTRA             14,609 4,417  10,1920.534
33. Arame                   CENTRO MARANHENSE           29,843 11,461 18,3820.535
34. Pedrodo RosLio          BAIXADA MARANHENSE          17,954 2,937  15,O 170.537
35. Peritor6                COCAIS                      17,336 6,527  10,8090.537
36. PauloRamos              MEDIO  MEARIM               19,290 8,627  10,6630.537
37. ,550 Bernard0           BAIXOPARNAiBA               22,720 8,764  13,9560.538
38. Tut6ia                  BAIXOPARNAfBA               37,728 11,589 26,1390.538
39. Alto Alegre do MaranhHo COCAIS                      20,162 12,997  7,165 0.538
40. IgarapCdo Meio          PINDARE                      9,842 3,912   5,9300.540
41. DuqueBacelar            LESTEMARANHENSE              9,413 4,173   5,2400.540
42. BomLugar                MEDIO  MEARIM               11,534 1,929   9,6050.541
43. Alto Alegre do PindarC  PINDA&                      30,177 7,909  22,2680.542
44. Pi0XI1                  PINDA&                      28,413 12,944 15,4690.542
45. PresidenteVargas        ITAPECURU                   10,483 3,744   6,7390.543
46. S5o Beneditodo R.Preto ITAPECURU                    16,442 9,163   7,2690.543




                                                  Page38

Municipio                    RegiHo                Total Popn Urban   Rural HDI-M
47. Siio LuisGonzagado MA    MEDIO MEARIM             22,722  7,722  15,050 0.543
48. Capinzaldo Norte         PRESIDENTEDUTRA          10,543  4,024   6,519  0.543
49. VargemGrande             ITAPECURU                34,707 17,116  17,591 0.544
50. PassagemFranca           SERTAOMARANHENSE         14,817  7,012   7,806  0.545
51. MagalhHesde Almeida      BAIXO PARNAfBA           13,021  6,279   6,742  0.547
52. Buritirana               TOCANTINS                13,822  3,784   10,038 0.547
53. AraguanH                  ALTO TURI                 9,123 3,899   5,224 0.548
54. S. Rdo.Doca Bezerra      PEDREIRAS                  6,671  1,486  5,185  0.549
55. NinaRodrigues            ITAPECURU                  8,289 3,363   4,926  0.550
56. Aldeias Altas            LESTEMARANHENSE          18,827  7,375    1,452 0.550
57. Lagoado Mato             SERTAOMARANHENSE           9,446 2,695   6,751  0.550
58. Brejo                    BAIXOPARNAfBA            27,513 10,656   6,857  0.552
59. Buriti                   BAIXO PARNA~BA           24,126  7,195   6,931 0.552
60. Barreirinhas             MUNIMELECOISMARANH       39,669  13,209 26,460  0.552
61. PresidenteSarney         BAIXADAMARANHENSE        13,718  3,242   10,476 0.555
62. SHo Franciscodo MaranhHo BALSAS                   12,854  3,205   9,649  0.555
63. Santa Luzia              PINDA~                   69,271 21,264  48,007  0.556
64. Tuntum                   CENTROMARANHENSE         35,411 16,424   18,987 0.556
65. Coroath                  COCAIS                   55,676 33,419  22,257  0.556
66. UrbanoSantos             ITAPECURU                17,603 10,906   6,697  0.556
67. PrimeiraCruz             MUNIMELECOISMARANH       11,019  3,759   7,260  0.556
68. GovernadorEughio Barros PRESIDENTEDUTRA           14,629  4,245   10,384 0.556
69. SHo Jos6 dosBasflios    PRESIDENTEDUTRA             7,432 2,713   4,719  0.556
70. Cod6                    COCAIS                   111,146 75,093  36,053  0.558
71. Afonso Cunha            LESTEMARANHENSE             4,680 2,255   2,425  0.558
72. Parnarama               LESTEMARANHENSE           32,469 11,007  21,462  0.558
73. GovernadorLuis Rocha    PRESIDENTEDUTRA             6,513 4,333   2,180  0.558
74. Junco do MaranhHo        ALTO TURI                  5,533 2,596   2,938  0.560
75. Santa QuitBriado MA     BAIXOPARNAfBA             28,150 11,499   16,651 0.561
76. Morros                  MUNIMELECOISMARANH        14,594  4,946   9,648  0.561
77. Serranodo Maranhao      BAIXADAMARANHENSE           9,120  2,918  6,202  0.562
78. Cajapid                 LAGOSMARANHENSES            9,622  2,853  6,769  0.562
79. Milagresdo Maranhao     BAIXOPARNAfBA               5,149  1,399   3,750 0.563
80. Colinas                 SERTAOMARANHENSE          35,803 20,821   14,982 0.563
                                                   1,419,761 567,699 852,229




                                            Page39

Table 6: Area 2 Municipalities, HDI-Mand population
                                                           Total
Municipio                       RegiHo                     Popn Urban RuralHDI-M
1.     MongHo                   PIN DARE                  26,043 9,002 17,041 0.564
2.     Mirador                  SERTAOMARANHENSE          19,906 6,992 12,914 0.564
3.     Apicum AGU               BAIXADA MARANHENSE        11,099 5,553  5,546 0.565
4.     Anajatuba                ITAPECURU                 22,978 5,992 16,986 0,567
5.     Turiap                   BAIXADAMARANHENSE         31,289 8,489 22,800 0.567
6.     MataRoma                 BAIXOPARNAfBA             11,799 5,235  6,564 0.567
7.     Mat6es                   LESTEMARANHENSE           26,433 9,479 16,954 0.567
8.     Altamirado Maranhiio     MEDIO MEARIM               8,865 2,894  5,97 1 0.567
9.     Lagodo Junco             PEDREIRAS                  9,833 2,840  6,993 0.567
10.    GovernadorArcher         PRESIDENTEDUTRA            9,100 5,858  3,242 0.567
11.    NovaOlindado MaranhHo ALTO TURI                     5,660 9,398  6,262 0.568
12.    Fortuna                  PRESIDENTEDUTRA            4,596 9,128  5,468 0.568
13.    GonGalvesDias            PRESIDENTEDUTRA            6,790 7,527  9,263 0.568
14.    BelaVista do MaranhHo PINDA&                        9,900 3,464  6,436 0.569
15.    FeiraNovado MaranhHo CERRADOMARANHENSE              7,543  1,030 6,5 13 0.569
16.    Formosada SerraNegra CERRADOMARANHENSE              3,781 2,189 11,592 0.569
17.    Bacurituba               LAGOSMARANHENSES           4,67 1 1,139 3,532 0.569
18.    PalmeirPndia             LAGOSMARANHENSES          17,264 3,208 14,056 0.569
19.    Humbertode Campos        MUNIMELECOISMARANH        21,266 6,240 15,026 0.569
20.    Carutapera               ALTO TURI                 18,624 13,121 5,503 0.571
21.    CentroNovo do MaranhHo ALTO TURI                   14,554 3,127 11,427 0.571
22.    SHo Vicente Ferrer       LAGOS MARANHENSES         18,406 3,977 14,429 0.571
23:    OlhodAgua das Cunhiis MEDIOMEARIM                  14,377  8,441 5,936 0.571
24.    GragaAranha              PRESIDENTEDUTRA            6,080 2,998  3,082 0.571
25.    Amapi do Maranhiio       ALTO TURI                  5,431  3,979  1,452 0.572
26.    Pirapemas                ITAPECURU                 15,124  8,546 6,578 0.572
27.    Icatu                    MUNIMELECOISMARANH        21,489 6,272 15,217 0.572
28.    PresidenteMCdice         ALTO TURI                  5,116  3,377  1,739 0.575
29.    Lagodos Rodrigues        PEDREIRAS                  8,443 4,480  3,963 0.575
30.    NovaIorque               SERTAOMARANHENSE           4,543 2,597   1,946 0.575
31.    Santo Antonio dos Lopes PRESIDENTEDUTRA            14,253 5,337  8,916 0.576
32.    BequimHo                 BAIXADAMARANHENSE         19,700 5,148 14,552 0.577
33.    Bernard0do Mearim        PEDREIRAS                  5,239  1,546 3,693 0.579
34.    BomJesus das Selvas      P&-AMAZONIA MARANHEN      16,545 7,967   8,578 0.580
35.    LimaCampos               PEDREIRAS                 10,749 6,128  4,621 0.581
36.    Po~iiode Pedras          PEDREIRAS                 22,378 9,864 12,514 0.583
37.    Buriti Bravo             SERTAOMARANHENSE          21,446 14,886 6,560 0.583
38.    Amarantedo Maranhiio TOCANTINS                     31,292 10,818 20,474 0.583
39.    CPndidoMendes            ALTO TURI                 16,566 9,156  7,410 0.584
40.    Siio Mateusdo Maranhiio COCAIS                     34,859 25,970  8,889 0.584
41.    Penalva                  LAGOSMARANHENSES          30,299 12,624 17,675 0.584
42.    Chapadinha               BAIXOPARNAfBA             61,322 37,231 24,091 0.588
43.    CoelhoNet0               LESTEMARANHENSE           42,214 34,747 7,467 0.588
44.    Siio PedrodaAguaBrancaPR6-AMAZONIAMARANHEN         10,927 9,459   1,468 0.588
45.    SenadorLa Roque          TOCANTINS                 16,242 7,965  8,277 0.588
46.    Cajari                   LAGOS MARANHENSES         13,405 3,753  9,652 0.589
47.    Zk Doca                  ALTO TURI                 46,134 29,082 17,052 0.590




                                                   Page40

Municipio                     Regiiio              TotalPopn  Urban  RuralHDI-M
48.    Centraldo Maranhiio    BAIXADAMARANHENSE        7,186  3,308  3,878 0.590
49.    Riachgo                CERRADOMARANHENSE       20,983  9,676  11,037 0.591
50.    GovernadorNunesFreire ALTO TURI                25,921  14,102 11,819 0.592
51.    Anapurus               BAIXO PARNAiBA          10,280  4,601  5,679 0.592
52.    SantaRita              ITAPECURU               24,922  9,666  15,256 0.592
53.    Siio Bento             LAGOS MARANHENSES       31,819  16,760 15,059 0.592
54.    SBo JoBo Batista       LAGOS MARANHENSES       18,917  3,549  15,368 0.592
55.    Paraibano              SERTAOMARANHENSE        17,854  12,827 5,027 0.592
56.    PeriMirim              BAIXADA MARANHENSE      13,07 1  3,153 9,918 0.593
57.    Esperantin6polis       PEDREIRAS               21,224  9,823  11,401 0.593
58.    Sucupirado Norte       SERTAOMARANHENSE        10,378   3,832 6,546 0.593
59.    Davindpolis            TOCANTINS               12,275  10,231 2,044 0.593
60.    Bacuri                 BAIXADA MARANHENSE      15,531  7,649  7,882 0.594
61.    NovaColinas            CERRADOMARANHENSE         3,904  1,637 2,267 0,594
62.    Vitorino Freire        MEDIO  MEARIM           27,462  13,594 13,868 0.594
63.    Buriticupu             P&-AMAZONIA  MARANHEN   51,059  26,017 25,042 0.594
64.    Vila Novados Martirios PRE-AMAZONIA MARANHEN     6,705  3,108  3,597 0.594
65.    BeneditoLeite         CERRADOMARANHENSE         5,288  2,232  3,056 0.595
66.    SBo Domingosdo AzeitBo CERRADOMARANHENSE        6,289  4,079  2,210 0.595
67.    SBo Ftlix de Balsas   CERRADOMARANHENSE         5,144   1,283 3,861 0.595
68.    GodofredoViana         ALTO TURI                6,994  4,341  2,653 0.596
69.    OlindaNovado Maranhiio LAGOS MARANHENSES       10,128   3,415 6,713 0.596
70.    Tasso Fragoso         CERRADOMARANHENSE         6,393   3,034  3,359 0.599
71.    SantaHelena            BAIXADAMARANHENSE       30,860  15,105 15,755 0.600
72.    Alchtara              METROPOLITANA            21,291   5,665 15,626 0.600
73.    IgaraptGrande         PEDREIRAS                 9,759   6,044  3,715 0.602
74.    Loreto                CERRADOMARANHENSE        10,024  4,840  5,184 0.603
75.    Bacabeira             MUNIMELECOISMARANH       10,516   1,892  8,624 0.603
76.    Sucupirado Riachiio   SERTAOMARANHENSE          4,287   2,133  2,154 0.605
77.   LagodaPedra            PEDREIRAS                40,405  24,048 16,357 0.606
78.    Trizidela do Vale     PEDREIRAS                16,402  14,329  2,073 0.608
79.    Sambaiba              CERRADOMARANHENSE         5,261   2,295  2,966 0.609
80.    ItapecuruMirim        ITAPECURU                42,772  27,661 15,111 0.609
81.    SBo Domingosdo MA     PRESIDENTEDUTRA          33,044  15,980 17,069 0.609
82.   MontesAltos            TOCANTINS                10,347   4,825  5,522 0.611
83.   Maracapme               ALTO TURI               14,866  12,691  2,175 0.613
84.   Cidelhdia              P&- AMAZONIA  MARANHEN   11,816   4,623  7,193 0.613
85.   PastosBons             SERTAOMARANHENSE         15,460   9,160  6,300 0.613
86.   Caxias                 LESTE! MARANHENSE       139,756 103,485 36,271 0.614
87.   Port0Ricodo Maranhiio BAIXADAMARANHENSE          6,380   2,542  3,838 0.615
88.   Vitdria do Mearim      LAGOS MARANHENSES        29,953  13,492 16,461 0.615
89.   SantaLuziado ParuA      ALTO TURI               20,058  10,676  9,382 0.616
90.   Arari                  LAGOS MARANHENSES        26,366  15,453 10,913 0.617
91.   Jatobi                 SERTAOMARANHENSE          5,055  2,06 1  2,994 0.617
92.   Barrado Corda          CENTROMARANHENSE         78,147  43,412 34,735 0.618
93.   Cedral                 BAIXADAMARANHENSE         9,793   1,976  7,817 0.619
94.   Viana                  LAGOS MARANHENSES        44,190  22,996 21,194 0.619
95.   Axixa                  MUNIME LECOISMARANH      10,142   1,202  8,940 0.619



                                             Page41

Municipio                      RegiHo               Total Popn    Urban     RuralHDI-M
96.    PindartMirim            PINDARE                  27,517   20,941     6,576 0.620
97.    BoaVista do Gurupi      ALTO TURI                 5,128    4,204       924 0.621
98.    Cururupu                BAIXADAMARANHENSE        33,747   21,468    12,279 0.623
99.    Bacabal                 MEDIO  MEARIM            91,823   71,408    20,4 15 0.623
100.   PresidenteDutra         PRESIDENTEDUTRA          39,541   27,505    12,036 0.624
101.   RibamarFiquene          TOCANTINS                 6,488    2,744     3,744 0.624
102.   Miranda                 ITAPECURU                16,123    13,611    2,512 0.625
103.   GovernadorEdisonLobHo TOCANTINS                  10,891    3,867     7,024 0.625
104.   Si30 Pedrodos Crentes   CERRADOMARANHENSE         4,024     1,692    2,332 0.626
105.   SBo FranciscoBrejBo     P&-AMAZONIA  MARANHEN     7,062    3,833     3,229 0.629
106.   SHo Franciscodo M A     SERTAOMARANHENSE         12,854    3,205     9,649 0.629
107.   Ros6rio                 MUNIMELECOISMARANH       33,665   21,765    11,900 0.630
108.   JoHo Lisboa             TOCANTINS                24,598    15,307    9,29 1 0.630
109.   SitioNovo               CENTROMARANHENSE         15,114    4,249    10,865 0.631
110.   BarHode Grajau          SERTAOMARANHENSE         15,349    7,887     7,462 0.631
111.   LuisDomingues           ALTO TURI                 5,724    4,693     1,031 0.632
112.   Campestredo MaranhHo TOCANTINS                   11,521    8391      2,930 0.633
113.   DomPedro                PRESIDENTEDUTRA          21,956    14,037    7,919 0.634
114.   Alto Parnaiba           CERRADOMARANHENSE        10,174    6,038     4,136 0.636
115.   Fortalezados Nogueiras  CERRADOMARANHENSE        11,301    5,925     5,376 0.637
116.   SHo Rdo. dasMangabeiras CERRADOMARANHENSE        14,870    9,720     5,150 0.638
117.   Pinheiro                BAIXADAMARANHENSE        68,030   38,186    29,844 0.639
118.   Grajau                 CENTRO MARANHENSE         47,155   26311     20,644 0.639
119.   Pedreiras              PEDREIRAS                 39,828   31,732     8,096 0.639
120.   GuimarHes              BAIXADAMARANHENSE         12,64 1   5,259     7,382 0.640
121.   Matinha                LAGOSMARANHENSES          19,231    6,905     12,326 0.640
122.   SBo JoBo dosPatos      SERTAOMARANHENSE          23,182    18,817    4,365 0.640
123.   LajeadoNovo            TOCANTINS                  5,717     1,978    3,739 0.646
124.   Mirinzal               BAIXADA MARANHENSE        13,005    7,812     5,193 0.650
125.   SHo JoBo do Paraiso    TOCANTINS                 10,365    3,829     6,536 0.654
126.   Timon                  LESTEMARANHENSE          129,692 113,066      16,626 0.655
127.   Carolina               CERRADOMARANHENSE         23,991    14,362    9,629 0.658
128.   Itingado MaranhHo      PR~AMAZONIA   MARANHEN    23,128    17,401    5,727 0.664
129.   AGailiindia            PRI~-AMAZONIA MARANHEN    88,320   64,164    24,156 0.666
130.   SantaInbs              PINDARG                   68,321   63,030     5,291 0.671
131.   Port0Franco            TOCANTINS                 16,840    12,618    4,222 0.678
132.   Estreito               CERRADOMARANHENSE         22,930    15,846    7,084 0.681
133.   Estreito               TOCANTINS                 22,930    15,846    7,084 0.681
134.   Balsas                 CERRADOMARANHENSE         60,163   50,144     10,019 0.696
135.   Imperatriz             TOCANTINS                230,566 218,673      11,893 0.722
136.   PaGodo Lumiar          METROPOLITANA            76,188      1,188   75,000 0.727
                                                     3,272,943 1,938,813 1,333,865




                                              Page42

4. ProjectAdministration,
   Supervision,Monitoring and
   Evaluation
Supervision
- Subprojects                           NEPE,      No. of
                                        Councils   Visits      720 1,080 1,080  720 3,600
- Municipal Councils                    NEPE       No. of
                                                   Visitslo    432  432   432   432 1,728



1       1.44 subprojects/association.
8       2 coursesfor each Council.
9       3 visitdsubproject.
10      2 visitshlunicipal CounciVyear.



                                                 Page43

Information Campaign              NEPE
  -- Presentation to Bank                           X
    Campaign Launched                                    X


  - Preparation                                     X
  - Review and Adjustments (with                         X
     Bank approval)

Monitoring Reports (sent to




                                I       II         I  I    I    I
                                                                I   I   I    I
  - Impact Evaluation             NEPE        No.
    (i)Baseline                                          X
  (ii)Final                                                           X




11        IPONyear


                                          Page 44

                                            Annex 3
                                            Brazil
             MaranhBo Integrated Program: RuralPoverty Reduction Project
                                   Estimated Project Costs




Proiect ComDonent                                     Local
                                                       -------------US$Foreign           Total
                                                                       million
                                                                             ___________
1. Community Subprojects                               31.80              3.50           35.30
2. Institutional Development                             1.70             0.30            2.00
3. HorizontalIntegration                                0.85              0.15            1.oo
4. Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation            0.85              0.15            1.oo

Total Baseline Cost                                    35.20              4.10           39.30

   Physical Contingencies                               0.30              0.10            0.40
   Price Contingencies                                  0.20              0.10            0.30


Total Proiect Cost                                     35.70              -
                                                                          4.30           -
                                                                                         40.00




                                           Page45

                                                       Annex 4
                                                        Brazil
                      Maranh2oIntegratedProgram: RuralPovertyReductionProject
                                                 Economic Analysis


Summary of Benefitsand Costs:

Specific investments carried out under the new project will be decided by communities over the life span of the
project. It is thus not possible to know a priori how available resources will be precisely allocated, and therefore a
precise ex ante estimation of their cost-effectiveness, rate of return and fiscal impact is not possible. However,
subprojects to be financed under the proposed project would, in general, be similar to those financed under previous
RPAP and ongoing RPRP projects. Based on accumulated experience from the R-NRDP and RPAP, the following
aspects of project investments were assessed: (i)cost-effectiveness and sustainability o f infrastructure and social
subprojects; (ii)financial viability of productive subprojects; (iii)the fiscal impact o f the RPRP; and (iv) the
aggregate impact o f the RPRP program.

Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects

The bulk of subproject investments under the RPAP were of the infrastructure type (77 percent), while social
subprojects comprised less than 3 percent. Most of these subprojects are in the realm o f core public services (water,
sanitation, electrification, social investments). Numerous studies show that these basic services provide benefits that
justify their universal provision. The experience of the R-NRDPs and RPAPs has shown that the CDD approach to
rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work in a cost effective manner in the Brazilian
Northeast.    Several aspects of project design help to ensure that the RPRP mechanism to deliver communal
infrastructure and social investments represents the least-cost, best alternative. First, the demand-driven nature of
each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where they are most needed. Community participation, under the
direction of the project Municipal Councils, ensures that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for the local
community. Furthermore, the project has, in the Municipal Councils, a democratic mechanism to prioritize the use
of the resources available at the municipal level. Second, the use of standard technical designs (projetos padrdo) for
the most common types of infrastructure and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensures
that community associations employ least-cost models for subproject implementation. These standard designs also
decrease searchand information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. Experience under the RPAP demonstrates that the technical quality of these investments
has been good. Third, the delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations has
proven to generate cost savings, when compared to comparable quality works implemented by public sector
agencies. The contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct contracting
through competitive processes on all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid. These characteristics have contributed to the cost-effectiveness of the subprojects
financed underthe project. Based on the analysis o f a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which
collectively represent some 80 percent of the types of subprojects being financed), it has been found that, for
infrastructure and social subprojects, costs under the RPAP were 30-50 percent cheaper than projects o f similar
quality, when financed by the state. State-level evaluation of the RPAP in Bahia, CearB, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio
Grande do Norte and Sergipe examined the quality of the materials used, the quality of overall finish, and the quality
of operation of the investments. In all states surveyed, the majority of subprojects were found to be technically
satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction with the quality of their subprojects and
regarded more than 90 percent of all investments as being satisfactory overall.

Also, according to experience, the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects has been good,
with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain the investments. The overall
evaluation study of the Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000, reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects
funded by the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997198, finding that 7,240 of them, or 89 percent, were fully
operational in March 2000. Furthermore, the same study found that there was no substantial difference in terms of



                                                     Page46

sustainability across infrastructure, productive and social subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and
239 social community subprojects, 89, 87and 88 percent, respectively, were fully operational at the time of the
study.

Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects analyzed. Analysis of
selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments are generally financially sustainable (Table A).
Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time investment grant from the RPAP, this investment is
financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average beneficiary association is, in general,
adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful economic
life.

For illustrative purposes, twelve productive subprojects representing some of the most typical productive
investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selectedfor financial analysis. Activity models were constructed for
these subprojects, based on field interviews with the managers of the subprojects (carried out during evaluation),
supervision and project preparation missions, and consultation of standard project designs (projetos padriio)
prepared by the STUs. The subprojects analyzed are as follows:

     Manioc Mill.Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment required to process
     cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to and from the plant. The mill serves
     a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The plant operates around 100days per year processing
     some 120 tons o f cassava into approximately 30 tons offarinha and 4.8 tons of starch employing one person to
     operate the plant during those days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15 percent of output. Association
     members normally pay a smaller fee than non-members.

     Communal Tractor. Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain sheller, grader and other equipment, including a garage.
     The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor works for members and non-
     members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport services. It works approximately 1,700 hour
     per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members are smaller than prices charged by private tractor owners
     and fees charged to non-members. The subproject employs a full-time motorist hired by the association.

     Small Irrigation 1. Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to irrigate a total of
     some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the introduction of a new technical package
     and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two high-price Brazilian vegetables with good local markets),
     which replace the existing traditional cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.

     Small Irrigation 2. Sprinkling irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha o f previously uncultivated land with water
     pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the irrigated land is used for
     traditional subsistence crops, corn and beans, although a cash crop-- watermelon - is planted on one-third of
     the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.

     Goat Production. Production o f goats by a group o f some 30 farmers, with an investment consisting o f 120
     breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are constructed and 85 ha of
     improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or self-consumption) of incremental animals
     and the sale (or self-consumption) of milk.

     Animal Feed Production Ecluipment. Grinding machine and complementary equipment to produce animal feed
     from crop residuals, together with a small construction to shelter the machine. Farmers pay a small amount (R$
     1.5) per hour to use the machine. From these payments, electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a
     small fund is formed. The machine works approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to
     operate the machine are supplied by users. The organization and supervision o f machine use is freely supplied
     by association leaders.




                                                      Page 47

   Honey Production. Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture and honey
   processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous apiculture experience.
   Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8 sites, are maintained by association
    members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kgof honey which is sold wholesale.

   Local Bakery. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking facilities to
    produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kgo f bread per day. Employs a master baker and
   two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding communities.

   FishFarm. Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2each, with a capacity for 8,500 tilapia fish each. Ponds are rotated, with
   4 ponds being permanently used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond in a year, with a total output of
    24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One person i s employed half-time to feed the fish and
    another i s employed half-time as watchman. Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.

    Cashew Processing Plant. Middle size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200 tons of cashew
    nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds, which are then sold wholesale.
    It operates during ten months of the year, employing around 6 operators. Cashew nuts are bought from
    surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with 1 to 5 ha of cashew trees each.

    Jam Production Plant. Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other confectionery
    products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and other inputs are bought by the
    plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to retailers. Employs a plant manager and three
    permanent workers.

    Small Dairy Plant. Middle size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling chamber and other
    facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 1. per day. The plant i s supplied by around 400 cows with
    an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to some 60 dairy farmers in a radius of 6 km. Employs a
    plant manager and 4 permanent workers.

    The results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table A.

                                                        Table A




The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical for RPAP
productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some of them being very high.



                                                     Page 48

Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and less than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net
incremental annual income or value-added generated by the subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149
for the feed preparation equipment to R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average
value of around R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000. The IRRs of the subprojects compare
favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government. The IRRs also compare favorably with the
interest rates that would have to be paid in concessionary rural credit programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste
and Banco do Brasil. Only two subprojects --the cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation subprojects --
would be able to pay the high interest rates charged by commercial banks for term lending.

Three categories o f projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample. First among these are communal
processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and well-known to farmers, meet
community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in the community. The manioc mill, communal
tractor, feed production equipment and goat production subprojects fall into this category. The results summarized
inTable A illustrate that these types of investments can be profitable. Their financial returns, however, are not high
because benefits are passed on to farmers in the form of moderate user fees or because the activity in question i s
intrinsically not very profitable as in the case o f small-scale goat rearing. These subprojects have the advantage of
building on activities familiar to farmers, and have therefore little training requirements and simple management
needs. They also have low marketing requirements since the community itself is the market for the service, and the
outputs produced with the help of the service normally have regular marketing channels or are self-consumed.

The second category o f subprojects are those promoting off- or on-farm productive activities which generate full
time employment and considerable income for a particular group o f farmers in the community. The small irrigation
subprojects and the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery subprojects belong in this category.
New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold in markets outside the community, exemplified by the
honey production, fish farming andjam production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source of income and
employment to some members of the community; however, these subprojects tend to be demanding in terms of
marketing and managerial skills. Other popular subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production
of different artisanal goods such as embroideries. These subprojects are normally part o f industries where the entry
cost is low and competition high, leaving small operating margins. The lack of working capital and the difficulty to
establish a brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the best-paying markets are two common
constraints.

Local bakeries, which are popular subprojects in some states, have little training and marketing requirements, and
are similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater for a local need and have therefore a
local market, although in this case it is that of a final good rather than of a productive service, but they only offer
employment and income to a reduced number o f community members. The irrigation subprojects illustrate well
that, whenever possible, irrigation together with the introduction o f cash crops and an improved technical package is
a profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment in the semi-arid areas of the Brazilian
Northeast, which can be successfully operated by local farmers at a very small scale. The contrast between the very
high returns to investment o f the first subproject, where new cash crops and technology were introduced alongside
with irrigation, and the moderately high ones o f the second subproject highlights the impact of profiting from the
availability of irrigation water to introduce wider changes in the cropping system.

The last category of subprojects consists of processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investment,
which operate on a scale bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting also farmers
outside the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and cashew processing plants
exemplify this type of subprojects.

To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average o f the IRRs of the activity models
included in the sample is calculated.     The shares o f each of the twelve types o f illustrative models (which were
taken to represent other similar ones) in the total amount invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program
were used as weights. The resulting average IRR is 30.2 percent. This figure gives an indication o f the overall
profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP, but should not be taken as an ex ante




                                                      Page 49

estimate of the aggregate profitability of the productive investments of the RPRP, since it is not known a priori
which type of subprojects will be most requested by beneficiary communities during the new project.

Fiscal Impact

There are two possible assumptions for estimating the fiscal impact of the RPRP program on the budget of the State
Governments of the Northeast Region. One assumption is that, in the absence of the program, State Governments
would not carry out the type of investments financed by RPRP, devoting those resources to other uses. An
alternative assumption is that without RPRP, State Governments would carry out the investments using a different
targeting and disbursement mechanism. The latter is the most plausible assumption, particularly for the
infrastructure and social investments, in view of their absolute priority, the social and political pressure from the
rural population and municipal authorities in favor of these investments, and the sustained interest shown by
Northeast Governments in the RPAP program. The focus here is therefore on this second hypothesis. It is worth
noting, however, that if the investments were not carried out, the resources saved by the State Governments would
not significantly alter their overall fiscal position. As shown in Table B, where the annual program cost of the RPRP
is compared with total and current state budgetary expenses, the annual cost of the RPRP to the Northeast
Governments ranges between 0.4 and 1.0 percent of their total annual budgetary expenditures and between 0.5 and
1.2 percent of their total states' annual current expenditures for year 2000.


Table B: Comparison between State Budgetary Expenditures and State-level RPRPAnnual Costs
                      RPRP                                   State Budget
                                                                       -                    Comparison
                            Total          Annual             Total       Current        Annual          Annual
                        Program          Program Expenditure Expenditure              RPRPCost       RPRPcost
       State         Cost (R$m)        Cost (R$m)           (R$m)           (R$m)     (% of Total          (% of
                                                                                    Expenditure)        Current
                                                                                                   Expenditure)
 1.Alagoas                   33.6              8.4          1,280.9        1,141.9             0.7            0.7
 2.Bahia                    157.5             39.4         7,788.0        5,032.0              0.5            0.8
 3.Ceara                     105.0             26.2         4,885.0        2,541.0             0.5             1.o
 4.Maranh20                  112.0             28.0         3,083.0        2,308.0             0.9             1.2
 5.Paraiba                    86.1             21.5         2,068.0        1,463.0             1.o             1.5
 6.Pernambuco                 84.0             21.0         4,117.2        3,421.2             0.5             0.6
 7.Piaui                      63.0             15.8         1,715.0        1,303.0             0.9             1.2
 8.Rio Grande                 63.0             15.8         1,89 1.9       1,570.2             0.8             1.o
 Norte Norte
 9.Sergipe                    63.0             15.8         1,312.0         1,100.0            1.2             1.4
Aggregate                   767.2            191.8         28,141.0      19,880.3              0.7             1.0


Under the second assumption, the direct impact of RPRP on government earnings derives both from savings in
government costs and from the generation of incremental government revenue.

There are tangible government savings associated with the community driven design of the program. Thus, as
mentioned above, evaluations have shown that the cost o f investments implemented by communities (either directly
or contracted) were 30-50 percent lower than prices paid by public authorities for similar works. There are also
budgetary savings associated to the decreased need for state and local governments to provide some inescapable
services which need is reduced by RPAP investments. This is for instance the case with government costs for water
distribution using carros pipa to communities without drinking water in critical periods. Thus, a mid-term
evaluation review of Bahia, Cearh and Sergipe concluded that in Sergipe it is estimated that savings expenses for
carros pipa associated with RPAP investments totaled R$ 500,000 (about R$ 100,000 per month) during a year of
`normal' rainfall; in Ceari savings were estimated at R$ 950,000; and in Bahia, R $ l million. In years of severe
drought, as in 1998, savings were at least twice those estimated for a normal year. Provision of better quality, more
reliable water also has less quantifiable but nonetheless significant impacts on health, reducing public health costs


                                                        Page 50

of Municipal Governments. Subproject operation and maintenance costs are also typically paid by the beneficiary
community, reducing the fiscal burdenof municipalities and states (with a few exceptions, e.g., electricity and some
types of water supply, commonly maintained by state agencies and operated in return for a user fee).

With respect to revenue generation direct impacts are likely to be small but indirect impacts could be significant.
The incremental revenue on the sales tax (ICMS) will be small because much of the incremental production o f the
subprojects is either self-consumed or not liable to taxation or circulates in informal markets where tax is rarely
paid. Infrastructure subprojects, however, can have big one-time indirect benefits. Experience for instance shows
that there was a large increase in the purchase and use o f domestic appliances when electricity became available.
Thus, the same mid-term evaluation report quoted above estimated the incremental ICMS revenue from the most
common appliances (TV sets, refrigerators, stereos, irons, antennas, etc.) at approximately R$2.0 million in Sergipe,
R$2.2 million in Cear6 and R$1.0 million in Bahia. Incremental ICMS revenue from electrical equipment is also
associated with the purchase of items such as agricultural machinery and irrigation pumps.

Aggregate Impact of the RPRPProgram on Employment, Income and CultivatedArea

The impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States, the results o f which are
examined in Annex 11, provides an estimate o f the aggregate impact on employment, income and cultivated area of
the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program. The study, based on a sample from the
most representative types of subprojects in each of the States, with an error of less than 20 percent, allows the
calculation of summary figures o f incrementaljobs created, incremental income generated and incremental number
of ha cultivated. Using these unit-level summary figures from the RPAP and multiplying them by the investment in
productive subprojects expected under the RPRP, a gross approximation of the aggregate benefits of the entire
RPRP program has been estimated, with the following results (rounded figures):

Total investment in community subprojects:                                                  US$362.0 million
 Incremental employment created:                                                                 >40,000 jobs
 Incremental net annual incomelsavinm generated:                                             US$80.0million




These estimates are subject to a number of caveats, among which is the fact that the level of significance of the
sample is not big and that the representative subproject mix under the RPAP only by chance would be replicated
under the RPRP. Furthermore, the estimates reflect not only the direct impact of the investments on employment,
income and cultivated land but also some indirect impacts, for example, the expansion of cultivated area,
employment and income derived from the introduction of a tractor or a easa defarinha in a certain community. The
above figures should be taken therefore as an indication of the order of magnitude o f the benefits involved.

Sensitivity Analysis1Switching Values of Critical Items:

To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out on the illustrative
activity models. Three scenarios are considered. Inthe first one, production is assumed to be 20 percent below the
base case, because of, say, marketing problems.       A 20 percent decrease in output causes a 20 percent decrease in
revenue, but this is, to some extent, matched by a reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs.    Inthe
second scenario, the price decreases 20 percent and revenue also decreases by the same proportion without any
compensating element.       Finally, in the third scenario, an increase o f 20 percent in the price o f variable costs is
assumed.    The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table C.




                                                      Page 51

              NPV (R$)                               1,831           397         62             1,496
      Honey Production
              IRR (%)                                  16.8          10.0        7.2             11.6
              NPV (R$)                               9.112           42        -3,635           2,162
      Local Bakery
              IRR (%)                                 35.0           20.1        < O             15.8
              NPV (R$)                              56,868          22,45 I    -21,559          12,859
      FishFarm
              IRR (%)                                  15.6          9.3         < O             < O
              NPV (R$)                              13,739          -1,732     -39,886         -26,024
       Cashew ProcessingPlant
              IRR(%)                                   >50           >50        48.3             >50
              NPV (R$)                             288,790         210,642     132,561         201,015
      Jam Production Plant
              IRR(%)                                  41.7           24.0        < O             12.7
              NPV (R$)                              69,062          29,690     -33,720          5,652
      Small Dairy Plant
              IRR (%)                                  19.7          2.0       n.d. (*)        n.d. (*)
              NPV (R$)                              30,223         -23,493    -138,697         -84,98 1
     (*) R R not defined; net benefits are negativeall years.



Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions.       Ingeneral, subprojects which are
highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the bakery, the fish farm, the jam production
plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to deteriorating market conditions than those little dependent on
purchased inputs, such as the manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and honey production
subprojects. In all cases, the worst scenario is that of a decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario
depends on the type of subproject; for subprojects highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the increase in
variable production costs (scenario 3), while for those little dependent on purchased inputs, it is the fall in output
(scenario 1).




                                                              Page52

                                             Annex 5
                                              Brazil
                  Maranhiio Integrated Program: RuralPoverty ReductionProject
                                       Financial Summary

                                     Years Ending December 31
                                          (in millionUS$)


                                             -----     Implementation Period
                                             Year 1 Year2     Year3    Year4   Total
Total Financing Required:
Proiect Costs
   InvestmentCosts                             8.08     10.34   9.49      6.09 34.00
  RecurrentCosts                               1.43      1.83   1.66      1.08  6.00
Total ProiectCosts                             9.51    12.17   11.15      7.17 40.00
   Front-endFee
Total Financing:                               9.51    12.17   11.15      7.17 40.00

Financing:
IBRDADA                                        7.13      9.13   8.36      5.38 30.00
State Government                               1.52      1.95   1.78      1.15   6.40
Community Associations                         0.86      1.09   1.01      0.64   3.60
Total Project Financing:                       9.51    12.17   11.15      7.17  40.00




                                            Page 53

                                                        Annex 6
                                                         Brazil
                     Maranh2o Integrated Program: Rural Poverty ReductionProject
                 Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements




Procurement

A) GENERAL

All procurement of goods under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines, Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Guidelines, Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May
2002 and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The methods to be used for procurement are described
below and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for
the use o f each method are established in Table B.

B) PROCUREMENTRESPONSIBILITIESAND CAPACITY

Project administration and monitoring will be the responsibility of the Nu'cleo Estadual de Projetos Especiais
(NEPE), the State Technical Unit (STU). A procurement capacity assessment of the STU was conducted at
appraisal by the Project Team's Procurement Specialist. In early 2003, an independent procurement review was
conducted of the predecessorproject - RPAP - and concluded that the procurement procedures followed under the
project complied with the loan agreement.          Procurement responsibilities will be carried out by the STU's
procurement staff who have performed successfully these functions during the predecessor project (RPAP-MA, Ln.
4252-BR) and are well-versed in Bank procurement policies and procedures. With the exception of some technical
assistance for the beneficiaries which will be procured by the STU, and activities under the Horizontal Component,
it is anticipated that all procurement financed by the Project would be carried out by the beneficiary community
associations.    The beneficiaries have already demonstrated satisfactory administrative capacity in preparing the
subproject proposals; this would be evaluated by NEPE/STU at the time of their submission. In addition, the STU
would exercise overall quality control o f procurement financed by the subprojects.

C) PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

Subproiects

The Project will provide matching grants to legally constituted rural community associations to finance small-scale
subprojects, technical assistance and training for institutional strengthening. Grants would be made in accordance
with the selection procedures described in the Project Operational Manual. A standard grant agreement satisfactory
to the Bank will be used to transfer grant funds to the beneficiaries under conditions that would ensure adequate
implementation.

Procurement o f goods and works under subprojects costing less than US$50,000 implemented in remote areas would
be carried out mainly through direct contracting and community participation.           This procurement method is
appropriate because most subprojects: (a) would be small and/or implemented in scattered or remote areas and
therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities, who
will also contribute directly to the work through the donation of unskilled labor and local materials; (c) will be
selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute to and physically supervise works
execution; and (d) would provide means by which communities could play an active role in the local development
process. Additional procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.5 million, would follow national shopping procedures. Contracts estimated to cost more than


                                                       Page 54

US$lOO,OOO equivalent would be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.

Works contracts (other than contracts costing less than US$50,000 in scattered or remote areas) estimated to cost
less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$l.O million, would be procured under lump-
sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a minimum of three qualified local
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.

The standard biddingdocuments for NCB agreedbetween the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil would be
used. N o International Competitive Bidding (ICB) is anticipated for any goods or works under the Project.

Consultant Services

Firms

The loan would finance contracts with consulting firms for information campaigns, technical assistance, studies and
capacity building for the beneficiary communities and the STU. These contracts would be awarded following a
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) process, in accordance with Section I1of the Consultant Guidelines.
However, services estimated to cost less than US$200,000equivalent per contract may be procured following Least
Cost Selection procedures in accordance with provisions for paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.

Individuals

The consulting services required for the Project include specialized advisory services and services to support project
monitoring, such as MIS experts, which are appropriate for individual consultants.

Individual consultants would be selected by comparison of qualifications of three candidates and retained in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, or may be selected on a
sole-source basis in accordance with Paragraph 5.3 and 5.4 o f the Consultants Guidelines, subject to prior approval
from the Bank. The competitive process followed to select individual consultants would be described in further
detail in the Project Operational Manual.

IncrementalOuerating Costs

Sundry items, utilities and other incremental recurring costs would be financed on a 20 percent basis and would be
procured using the STUs administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. In
addition, the Bank would finance 50 percent of STUincremental staff costs for project supervision and monitoring.

Prior review thresholds and Procurement Supervision

The proposed thresholds for prior review are summarized in Table B. Prior review would be required for all NCB
contracts. In addition, the Bank would review the first contracts procured through shopping procedures for goods
and works, respectively. Contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more and with individual
consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or more would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Assignments of a
critical nature and amendments raising contract values above the said thresholds would also be subject to prior
review.




                                                    Page 55

Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be overall low, it would be compensated in several
ways.    First, reviews of procurement by community contracting would be carried out yearly during project
implementation, under terms of reference agreed during project appraisal. Second, cost comparisons o f similar
subprojects would be conducted using the project MIS in order to detect possible procurement problems and
determine whether prices paid under community procurement were reasonable. Third, the project's annual physical
performance evaluation would verify the physical implementation of subprojects and analyze procurement issues.
Finally, during Bank supervision, additional random reviews would be conducted of subprojects, including field
visits and review of subproject documentation.

Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements (in US$million)
 Expenditure Category                                          Procurement Method"                                Total Cost
                                             NCB          Local           Direct          Other     N.B.F13        (including
                                                        Shopping      Contracting                                contingencies)

 1. Civil                                                   1.o            20.5                                        21.5
                                                          (0.7)           (15.3)                                       (16.0)

 2. Goods and Materials"                                    1.5            12.8                                         14.3
                                                          (1.3)            (9.5)                                       (10.8)

 3. Consulting Services, Studies                                                                                         4.2
 and Project Administration                                                                                            (3.2)
     -
     Total                                                  2.5            35.0            2.5                          40.0
                                                           (2.0)          (25.5)           (2.5)                       (30.0)


I                                            Contract Value                     Procurement              Contracts Subject to
     Expenditure Category                       Threshold                          Method                     Prior Review
                                             (US$ thousands)                                                 (US$millions)
 1.Works                                        > 100,000                           NCB                              All
                                                 <100,000                     Three Quotations                       1St
                                        <50,000 inremote areas               Direct Contracting                   None
 2. Goods                                        >100,000                           NCB                              All
                                                 <100,000                         Shopping                           lS
                                        <50,000 inremote areas                Direct Contracting                   None
 3. ConsultingServices
 Firms                                          > 100,000                          Q C B P                           All
                                                 <100,000                                                          None
 Individuals                                     >50,000                   Guidelines, Section V                     All
                                                 <50,000                                                           None


Financial Management, Auditing and Disbursement Arrangements

The Maranhao Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project is a repeater Project in terms o f financial
management arrangements. The first Rural Poverty Alleviation Project for Maranhi50 - Ln. 4252 has already
disbursed 100% and the closing date is June 30, 2004. This Project has been successfully implemented, and
therefore the Financial Management Assessment for this second-generation Rural Poverty Reduction Project was


  Figuresinparenthesisare the amountsto be financedby the Bank loan.
l3N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.
l4Communitysubprojects
l5Community subprojects
I6Servicesestimatedto cost less than US$200,000 may beprocured following LeastCost Selectionprocedures,where appropriate.



                                                           Page 56

limited to a review o f the Financial Management System, the design of new Financial Statements in FMR format,
simplification of some administrative procedures, simplification of funds flow, and review of audit arrangements.

Implementing Entity. The Project will be implemented a State Special Projects Unit - NEPE, the STU existing
under the State Management Unit for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (GEAGRO). This Unit has a
well-proven experience in managing the first Rural Poverty Project -Loan 4252-BR.

FinancialSystem. The financial management system to be used by the project was reviewed by a Bank Financial
Management Specialist during project preparation for compliance with OPBP 10.02 and the new Guidelines for
Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements.          Based on this review, the financial management system and
other arrangements were considered satisfactory, indicating that they satisfy the Banks minimal financial
management requirements and have already the capacity installed to disburse through conventional SOE procedures
or through report based methodology- FMR, if the Project decides to use this methodology in the future.

Action plan. An action plan was prepared and agreed during project preparation to strengthen the current system,
and will be fully implemented in the context of the overall Management Information System for the project. The
format of FMRs for reporting purposes were also agreed.

Fundsflow. Fundswill be deposited by the Bank from the Loan account to a special account with Banco do Brasil
New York. An equivalent account in SHo Luis will be opened to receive funds upon withdrawal from the Special
Account. From this account funds will be converted to R$, according to project needs, and transferred to an
operational account in Banco do Brasil for application in the individual subprojects. Any balance left in the US$
special account will be invested in the international financial market and interest will be credited to the project in
due course, Funds will be invested by NEPE up to 30 days after withdrawal from special account, and SOEs for its
replenishment will be submitted upon transfer of funds from the special account, according to the Fiduciary
Guidelines for Community Driven Development Projects. Counterpart funds from the State of MaranhBo will be
requested by the STU and deposited in the project operational account. The communities' contributions to subproject
investments would be defined in the agreement between the project Technical Unit/STU and the beneficiary
community association. This contribution would be computed as part of counterpart finance of the project. Simple,
standard records, whose format are included in the project Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated
community representative.     They would be used to record cash contributions, which will be directly paid to
suppliers, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to project audit procedures.

Disbursements. Disbursements for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs), except for goods and works exceeding US$lOO,OOO equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above
US$lOO,OOO equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000, which would be supported by SS (Summary
Sheets). The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the STU in the MIS data
base. All SOEs would be transmitted from the STU to the World Bank in Washington. This procedure would allow
the Bank and the STU to maintain a cumulative account of the progress o f project implementation. NEPE will
designate officials with authority to sign the withdrawal requests and file with the Bank the signature specimens.

IftheProjectdecidesinthefuturetodisburseonbasisofFMRs,theFinancialManagementSystemisalready
equipped and sufficiently reliable to allow for such a mechanism o f disbursement.

The proposed Bank loan would be disbursedover a period o f four years. The project is expected to be completed by
the project's C1,osing Date of December 31, 2008. The allocation of loan proceeds by disbursement category is
shown in Table C.

Reporting. The Project will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR) which will include source and
application of funds by components and sub components and a physical progress report. The FMRs were designed
insuch a way that they can be usedas the year end Financial Statements for auditing purposes.

FMR-BasedDisbursement. Once the borrower is prepared to adopt the FMR-based disbursement option, such
disbursements should follow the following procedures:




                                                     Page 57

    All withdrawals from the LoanAccount shall be deposited by the Bank into a special Account basedupon Table
    C. Each such deposit into the Special Account will be withdrawn by the Bank from the loan account under one
    or more of the eligible categories.

    Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special Account must be supported
    by a FMR.

    Upon receipt o f each application for withdrawal the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
    Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
    requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the FMR accompanying that
    application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during three-month period
    following the date of the FMR.

    In the case of a faster than expected draw-down of the Special Account, an interim FMR may be submitted to
    request a supplemental disbursement prior to the next scheduled quarterly disbursement request. All supporting
    documentation authenticating the expenditures reported in the FMRs will be maintained by the Project
    Technical Unit and made available for review by auditors and Bank missions as requested.

Auditing Arrangements. According to arrangements for Bank-financed projects in Brazil, the SOEs Financial
Statement, SOEs and the special account will be audited in conjunction with the annual financial audit of the project
accounts for the period January 1to December 31. A single opinion will be issued on Project's accounts and SOE
Statement. A special opinion will be issued on the Special Account Statement. This audit will be performed by an
Independent Auditor. Both the terms of reference for the Audit, and the Auditor shall be acceptable to the Bank.
The audit report will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 in the year following the year for which the
project accounts are audited. The Auditor's report will include the issuance of a management letter on internal
controls, and recommendations thereof.

Financial Covenants: Standard Financial Covenants will apply for this Project

Supervision Plan: Biannual supervision Missions will be carried out in the Project.




                                                  Page 58

Table C: Allocation of LoanProceedsby Project Category
                   Expenditure Category                      Project Cost Financing    Allocation of Loan
                                                            inUS$ million Percentage Proceeds inUS$ million
1. Grants for Communitv Submoiects (investments,
technical assistance and start-up grants)
   (a) Area 1grants                                                   21.3      75%                     16.0
   (b) Area 2 grants                                                  14.2      75%                     10.6
2. Consultants' services for Parts B, C and Dof the Project            0.9      84%                      0.8
3. Training for Parts B, C and D of the Project                        0.6     100%                      0.6
4. Administrative Costs
   (a) incremental operational costs                                   0.5      20%                      0.1
   (b) project supervision and monitoring costs                        0.7      50%                      0.3
5.                                                                                                       0.3
6. Unallocated                                                         1.8                               1.3

                            Total                                     40.0                              30.01




                                                    Page 59

                                                Annex 7
                                                 Brazil
                Maranhiio Integrated Program: RuralPoverty Reduction Project
                              Project ProcessingBudget and Schedule



A. ProjectBudget (US$OOO)                                     Planned             Actual
                                                        (At final PCD stage)
                                                             US$172,228          US$252,590

B. Project Schedule                                           Planned             Actual
                                                        (At final PCD stage)


Time taken to prepare the project (months)                        12                15
First Bank mission (identificationlpreparation)               02/2003             02/2003
Appraisal mission departure                                    10/2003            11/2003
Negotiations                                                   11/2003            0412004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                 01/2004             0912004

Prepared by: Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (GEAGRO)

Bank staff who worked on the project included:

LuisCoirolo, Team Leader, LCSER
Raimundo Caminha, LCSRE
Tdlio Barbosa, LCSRE
Jog0 Barbosa de Lucena, LCSRE
Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga, LCSEN
Edward Bresnyan, LCSER
Jose August0 Carvalho, LEGLA
Maria Madalena dos Santos, LCSHD
Claudio Mittelstaedt, LCOAA
Anna Roumani, LCSER
MarkThomas, LCSPE
Sylvie Duran, Consultant
Estela Neves, Consultant


Peer Reviewer:
Klaus Deininger, DECRG




                                               Page 60

                                              Annex 8
                                              Brazil
            Maranhao Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project
                                Documents in the Project File*



  A. Project ImplementationPlan
  0   Draft OperationalManual for Maranhiio

  B. Bank Staff Assessments


0 Sector Issues and Concept
  0   Contributions for defining subprojectsin the healthand education sectors.
      0    Current Rural Poverty Alleviation Program
      0    Governmentof Maranhiio Project Document(February 2003)
0 Project Economic and Financial Analyses
      0    Cost-Benefit Analysis for selected Subprojects
      0    Fiscal Impact
0 Project Implementation Arrangements
      0    Community Organizations
      0    State Technical Unit (STU) -N6cleo Estadualde ProjetosEspecias(NEPE)
      0    State ManagementUnit for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (GEAGRO)

      0    NGOS
      0    Private Sector
0 Social Capital Assessment
0 Environment
  0        Environmental ManagementPlan (September 2003)
0 IndigenousPeoples
           0   Planode Participa@oIndigena (October 2003)
  0   Project Monitoring
      0    Project Database
      0    Monitoring Activities
      0    Project Reporting
  0   Project Supervisionof Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (Loan 4252-BR)
      0    World Bank SupervisionReports

  C. Background Studies


  0   MidTerm Review of Rural PovertyAlleviation PrograminBahia, Cearaand Pernambuco.
  0   Rural DevelopmentProgramsfor Brazil's Northeast: An Interim Assessment


  *Including electronic files.




                                             Page61

                                                              Annex 9
                                                              BRAZIL
                          MaranhiioIntegratedProgram: RuralPovertyReductionProject
                                                    Statement of Loans and Credits


                                                                                                   Differencebetween
                                                                     Orig. Amt.                    expectedand actual
                                                                    (US$million)                         disbursements
Project ID FY Purpose                                             IBRD IDA CEF Cancel. Undisb.     Orig. Frm. Rev'd
PO60573   2004 BR Tocantins Sustainable RegionalDev                 60.0 0.0    0.0  0.0    60.0      0.0         0.0
PO80827   2004 BR Loan for Sust. and Equitable Growth   '          505.1   0.0  0.0  0.0   549.6      0.0         0.0
PO49265   2003 BR-RECIFE URBANUPGRADING PROJECT                     46.0   0.0  0.0  0.0    45.1       1.8        0.0
PO70827   2003 BR-2nd APL BAHIA DEV. EDUCATION PROJEC               60.0 0.0    0.0  0.0    56.4      -3.6        0.0
PO54119   2003 BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                                 30.0 0.0    0.0  0.0    28.7      -0.3        0 0
PO58503   2003 GEF BR Amazon Region Prot Areas (ARPA)                0.0   0.0 30.0  0.0    27.5       0.0        0.0
PO80400   2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control 3                              100.0 0.0   0.0  0.0    95.0      -1.6        0.0
PO78310   2003 BR-CAIXA Water                                       75.0   0.0  0.0  0.0    75.0       5.7        0.0
PO76977   2003 BR-EnergySector TA Project                            12.1 0.0   0.0  0.0    12.1       1.7        0.0
PO74777   2003 BR-MunicipalPension ReformTAL                         5.0   0.0  0.0  0.0     4.7       2.2        0.0
PO57653   2002 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA                                  160.0 0.0   0.0  0.0   205.5    -22.8         0.0
PO51696   2002 SA0 PAULO METRO LINE4 PROJECT                       209.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   186.4    116.8         0.0
PO55954   2002 GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY        MANAGEMENT                65.0 0.0    0.0  0.0    41.7     34.5         0.0
PO57665   2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTHEXTENSION PROJECT                     68.0 0.0   0.0  0.0    59.2     35.6         0.0
PO74085   2002 BR Sergipe Rural Poverty Reduction                    20.8  0.0  0.0  0.0     12.0      2.8        0.0
PO73192   2002 BR TA FinancialSector                                 14.5 0.0   0.0  0.0     9.3       0.4         0.0
PO70552   2002 GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT                     0.0 0.0   8.0  0.0      8.6      3.9         0.0
PO66170   2002 BR-RGN2ND Rural PovertyReduction                      22.5  0.0  0.0  0.0     16.4      3.5         0.0
Po60221   2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITANTRANSPORT PRO                   85.0 0.0   0.0  0.0    111.5    39.7          0.0
PO43869   2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURALRESOURC & P                  62.8 0.0   0.0  0.0    60.5      11.9         0.0
PO50880   2001 BR Pernambuco RuralPoverty Reduction                  30.1 0.0   0.0  0.0    22.2      13.2         0.0
PO5088I 2001 BR PIAUIRURALPOVERTY REDUCTIONPROJ                      22.5  0.0  0.0  0.0     13.4      8.7         0.0
PO57649   2001 BR BahiaRural Poverty ReductionProject                54.4 0.0   0.0  0.0    24.4       7.9         0.0
PO73294   2001 BR Fiscal& Fin. Mgmt. TAL                              8.9 0.0   0.0  0.0      6.7      5.7         0.0
PO59566   2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                             90.0 0.0   0.0  0.0    79.0     -11.0         0.0
PO50772   2001 BR LAND-BASEDPOVRTY ALLEVIATION I(S                  202.1  0.0  0.0  0.0   224.3    161.5          0.0
PO50875   2001 BR Ceara Rural Poverty ReductionProject               37.5  0.0  0.0  0.0     21.8      9.8         0.0
PO35741   2000 BR NATL ENV 2                                         15.0  0.0  0.0  2.3      6.4      8.7         8.4
Po62619   2000 BR INSS REF LIL                                        5.1 0.0   0.0  0.0      0.4     -0.1         0.7
PO39199   2000 BR PROSANEAR 2                                        30.3  0.0  0.0  0.0     29.0     29.0         0.0
PO47309   2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                             0.0 0.0 15.0   3.3     11.6     13.1        -0.8
PO50776   2000 BR NE Microfinance Development                        50.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     31.7    -18.3         0.0
Po06449   2000 BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRHSIM                        136.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     81.6     43.3         0.0
PO43874   1999 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS                   100.0 0.0   0.0  33.0     8.8     41.8         0.0
PO58129   1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                        15.0 0.0   0.0  0.0      5.9      5.9         3.5
PO50763   1999 BR- Fundescola2                                      202.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     17.6     14.3         0.0
PO48869   1999 BR SALVADOR URBANTRANS                               150.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     94.2     94.2         0.0
PO38947   1998 BR- SC. &TECH 3                                      155.0 0.0   0.0  88.8     5.3     94.1         0.0
PO35728   1998 BR BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                                51.0  0.0  0.0  0.0     10.1     IO. I       -2.8
PO06559   1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                                          45.0  0.0  0.0  0.0      3.9      3.9         0.0
PO06474   1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0PAULO)                              55.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     49.4     47.1         8.6
PO38895   1998 BR FED.WTR MGT                                       198.0 0.0   0.0 40.0     59.2     99.2        99.2
PO43421   1998 BR RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                                 186.0 0.0   0.0  17.2   113.5    130.7         0.0
PO57910   1998 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                                  5.0  0.0  0.0  0.0      2.0      2.0         0.1
PO43420   1998 BR WATER S.MOD.2                                     150.0 0.0   0.0 125.0    20.6    145.6         1.3
PO42565   1998 BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                                  60.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     17.4     17.4         0.0
PO43873   1997 BR AG TECH DEV.                                       60.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     18.0     18.0        18.0
PO06562   1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                                         100.0  0.0  0.0  0.0      9.0      9.0         9.0
Po06532   1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                      300.0 0.0   0.0  30.0    84.9    114.9        88.5
PO43868   1997 BR RGS LAND MGTPOVERTY                               100.0 0.0   0.0  0.0     25.9     25.9        25.9
PO34578   1997 BR RGS Highway MGT                                    70.0  0.0  0.0  0.0     44.6     44.6        44.6
PO37828   1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                                     175.0  0.0  0.0  0.0     55.8     55.8        55.8
Po06210   1996 GEF BR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                              0.0 0.0 10.0   0.0      1.9      2.7         0.0
PO06564   995 BEL0 HM.TSP                                            99.0 0.0   0.0  0.0      9.5      9.5         0.0
PO38882   1995 BR RECIFE M.TSP                                      102.0  0.0  0.0  0.0      7.9      7.9         0.0
                                       TOTALS:                    4,660.6  0.0 63.0 339.6 2,883.0  1,498.0       360.0


                                                             Page62

                                                BRAZIL
                                            Statementof IFC's
                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                As of February29,2004 (US$ million)


                                                              Committed
                                                                 -                                  Disbursed
                                                                 IFC                                   -
                                                                                                       IFC


FY Approval    Company                            Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan   Equity     Quasi  Partic
1998           Fras-le                             7.33      0.00      10.00      0.00     7.33    0.00       6.70   0.00
1994           GAVEA                               2.81      0.00       5.50      0.00     2.81    0.00       5.50   0.00
2001           GP Cptl Rswctd                      0.00      9.67       0.00      0.00     0.00    9.54       0.00   0.00
1997           GPC                                 9.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     9.00    0.00       0.00   0.00
1998           Guilman-Amorim                     22.73      0.00       0.00     38.32    22.73    0.00       0.00   38.32
1999           IcatuEquity                         0.00     20.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    12.60      0.00    0.00
1980187/97     InnovaSA                           15.00      5.00       0.00     40.00     15.00   5.00       0.00   40.00
1999           Ipiranga                           13.11      0.00      10.52     39.75     13.11   0.00      10.52   39.75
2000/02        Itaberaba                           0.00      5.34       0.00      0.00     0.00    5.34       0.00    0.00
1999           Itau-BBA                           62.63      0.00       0.00      0.00    49.08    000        0.00    0.00
1995           JOSAPAR                             7.57      0.00       7.00      0.00     2.57    0.00       7.00    0.00
1992199        Lojas Americana                     6.00      0.00       0.00      0.00     6.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
2002           MBR                                17.50      0.00       0.00      0.00     17.50   0.00       0.00    0.00
2002           Macae                              52.03      0.00      10.00     43.75    52.03    0.00      10.00   43.75
2002           MacedoNordeste                      0.00      0.00       5.00      0.00     0.00    0.00       5.00    0.00
1994           Microinvest                         0.00      1.25       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.12       0.00    0.00
1996           Net Servicos                        0.00     31.74       0.00      0.00     0.00    31.74      0.00    0.00
1994100lO2     Para Pigmentos                     12.90      0.00       9.00      0.00     12.90    0.00      9.00    0.00
2000           Perdigao                            6.56      0.00       0.00       0.00    6.56     0.00      0.00    0.00
2003/04        Portobello                          0.00      1.15       0.00       0.00    0.00     1.15      0.00    0.00
1998           Puras                               3.33      0.00       0.00       0.00    3.33     0.00      0.00    0.00
1997           Queiroz Galvao                      0.64      0.00       0.00       0.00    0.11     0.00      0.00    0.00
1997103        Randon                              4.67      0.00       3.00       0.00    4.67     0.00      3.00    0.00
1994197        Rodovia                            19.44      0.00       0.00      15.90    19.44    0.00      0.00   15.90
2002/04        SP Alpargatas                      30.00      0.00       0.00       0.00    5.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
1997           Sadia                               7.70      0.00       4.83      48.85    7.70     0.00      4.83   48.85
1998           Salutia                             0.00      0.08       0.00       0.00    0.00     0.08      0.00    0.00
2003           Samarco                             8.10      0.00       0.00       1.33     8.10    0.00      0.00    1.33
2000           Saraiva                             5.77      3.00       0.00       0.00    5.77     3.00      0.00    0.00
1997           Satipel                            15.00      0.00      10.00       0.00    15.00    0.00     10.00    0.00
1999           Seara Alimentos                     0.00      0.09       0.00       0.00    0.00     0.09      0.00    0.00
2001           Sepetiba                           27.00      0.00       5.00       0.00    12.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1996           sucorrico                           1.50      0.00       0.00       0.00     1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998           Sudamerica                          0.00     15.00       0.00       0.00    0.00    15.00      0.00    0.00
2001/03        Synteko                            18.00      0.00       0.00       0.00    18.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
2002           TIGRE                               5.77      0.00       5.00       0.00     5.77    0.00      5.00    0.00
2002104        Tecon Rio Grande                    5.41      0.00       5.50       9.89     5.41    0.00      5.50    9.89
1999           Tecon Salvador                      0.00      0.56       0.00       0.00     0.00    0.55      0.00    0.00
1999           UPOffshore                         11.60     10.00       0.00      30.00     0.00    3.00      0.00    0.00
2001           Unibanco                           20.00      0.00       0.00       0.00    14.80    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996197        Vulcabras                          10.00      0.00       0.00       0.00    10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
               Wiest                               0.00      0.00       8.00       0.00     0.00    0.00      8.00    0.00
               AG Concession                       0.00     15.00      15.00       0.00     0.00   14.07      0.00    0.00
               Algar Telecom                       0.00      8.17       0.00       0.00     0.00    8.17      0.00    0.00

                          Total Portfolio:       704.27    155.84      212.35    568.37    625.81  139.24    194.05  538.37




                                                          ApprovalsPendingCommitment

FY Approval    Company                                Loan      EQuity        Quasi      Partic
2002           Andrade                                0.00         0.00       0.00       100.00
2000           BBA                                   10.00         0.00       0.00        0.00
2002           BancoItau-BBA                          0.00         0.00       0.00       100.00
2001           Brazil CGFund                          0.00         0.00       20.00       0.00
1999           Cibrasec                               0.00         0.00       7.50        0.00
2002           Net Servicos2                         50.00         0.00       0.00        0.00
2002           Suape ICT                              6.00         0.00       0.00        0.00
2004           TermoFortaleza                        55.50         7.00       0.00       112.50
2002           Unibanco-CL                            0.00         0.00       0.00      150.00

               Total Pending Commitment:            121.50         7.00       27.50     462.50




                                               Page63

                                                               Annex 10
                                                               BRAZIL
                        MaranhBo Integrated Program: Rural Poverty ReductionProject
                                                       Country at a Glance



                                                                  Latin  Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                               America  middle-
                                                         Brazil & Carib. income      Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population mid-year(millions)                            174.5      527    2,411
GNI per capita (Atlas method US$)                        2,830                                     Lifeexpectancy
                                                                  3,280    1,390
GNI (+Was method US$billions)                            494.5    1,727    3,352
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                            T
Population (%)                                             1.3      1 5      1.o
Laborforce (%)                                             1.7      2 2      1.2    GNI

Mostrecent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                per
                                                                                    capita
Poverty (% of population belownationalpovem//me)           22
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                     82       76        49                          I
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                             69       71        69                          1
Infant mortality(per 7,000live births)                     30        27       30
Child malnutntion(% of children under5)                      6        9       11          Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improved water sourcePA of population)        87       86        81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationaqe 15+)                           12       11       13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-aqepopulation)       162      130       111       ^__x-   Braul
    Male                                                  166      131       111               Lower-middle-incomeorouo
    Female                                                159       128      110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982    1992     2001     2002      Economicratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                               281 7   390.6    509 0    452.4
Gross domesticinvestment/GDP                      21 1    18.9     21 2     19.3
Exportsof goods and servicedGDP                    7 6    10.9     132      15.8                        Trade
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                         20 4    21.4     20 2     21.5
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         153     20.1     166      18.0                          T
Current account balancelGDP                       -5.8     1.6     -46      -1.7
Interest payments/GDP                              3.4     0.7      3 0      3.0
Total debt/GDP                                    33.3    33.0     48 3     51.3
Total debt service/exports                        81.9    21.1     76 4     70.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                          52 6     58.4
Presentvalue of debt/exports                                      334 2                               Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002   2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                      2.6       2.7     1.4      1 5      3.4        -Brazil

GDP percapita                            0.7       1.4     0.1      0.2      2.2          -     Lower-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                 1982    1gg2              2o02    ! Growth of investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                  1
Agriculture
Industry
  Manufacturing                                   346    247       140      132
Services                                          454    536       71 6     729
Private consumption                               696    61 5      606      593     i o
General government consumption                    10.0   17.1      19.2     19.3
Importsof goods and services                                                                    --mGDI          '-O-GDP


                                               1982-92 1992-02    2o01     2o02
(averageannualgrowth)                                                               Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                        2.5    3.5       5.7
Industry                                           1.6    2.3      -0.7
  Manufacturing                                    0.5     1.8      1.4
Services                                           3.2    2.8       1.9
Private consumption                                0.7    3.9       0.8
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       7.1    0.9       1.o
Gross domestic investment                          4.1    2.1      -1.1     -5.2            '---Exports         +Imports
Importsof goods and services                       3.9    7.6       1.2    -12.8

                                            I .   ,   I             I , I




                                                              Page 64

                                                                                                                        Brazil

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                           1982       1992    2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                                 Inflation(%)

(% change)
Consumer prices                           100.5       951.6     7.7     7.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      104.8       968.5     7.5     8.5

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                                22.7   24.1               97     6%     99      M)     01     02
Currentbudget balance                                           3.0     3.1
Overall surplus/deficit                                         3.8                     -GDP        deflator  -CPi


                                                                                                                               I
TRADE
                                          1982        1992    2001    2002
(US$mi//ions)                                                                    Exportandimportlevels(US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ......
                                              ..     35,793  58,223 60,362     75,000 T
 Coffee                                               2,534   2,932  3,049
 Soybeans                                             2,696   2,726  2,199
 Manufactures                                        23,787  32,901 33,001     50.000

Total imports (cifl                           ..     20,554  55,572 47,219
 Food                                                   850   1,169  1,085     25.000
 Fuel andenergy                                       3,069   6,276  6,281
                                                                               1                                               I
 Capitalgoods                                 ......  6,335  14,808  11,593          0

Export price index (1995=100)                73          92      94     95              6%    97   98     99    w     01

Importpriceindex(f995=100)                   65          63     114     115                      Exports        mlmports
Terms of trade (1995=700)                   112         147      82     82                                                 O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1982        1992    2001    2002
(US$ mi//ions)                                                                  Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (%)                1
Exportsof goods and services             21,967      38,999  67,545 69,968
Importsof goods andservices              24,761      25,717  72,653 61,863
Resourcebalance                          -2,794      13,282  -5,108  8,105

Net income                              -13,510      -9,382 -19,743 -18,191
Net currenttransfers                          2       2,243   1,638  2,390
Current account balance                 -18,302       6,143 -23,213  -7,696

Financingitems (net)                     11,101       8,926  19,795  -3,570
Changes in net reserves                   5,201     -15,069   3,418  11,266

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//ions)      3,994      23,754  35,866 37,823
Conversionrate IDEC, /ocal/US$)        6.52E-11     1.64E-3     2.4     2.9

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1982        1992    2001    2002
(US$mi//ions)                                                                   Composition of 2002debt(US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed       93,932     129,060 245,844 232,075
  IBRD                                    2,694       7,238   7,963  7,710                           A: 7.710
  IDA                                         0           0       0       0
Total debt service                       19,215       8,647  54,322 51,636
  IBRD                                      411       1,913   1,362   1,518
  IDA                                         0           0       0       0

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                            24           38      81       0
  Officialcreditors                         966        -936   2,742    916
  Privatecreditors                        7,580       5,888  -1,781  -9,541
  Foreigndirect investment                2,910       2,061  22,636       0
  Portfolioequity                            0        1,704   2,482       0              F: 152,327
World Bank program
  Commitments                             1,090       1,344   1,624  1,276      A IBRD                            E Bilateral
  Disbursements                            623          581   1,639  1,384      B IDA       D. Othermultilateral  F Private
  Principalrepayments                      215        1,266     828  1,063      C IMF
                                                                                  ---                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                   ---
  Net flows                                408        -685      810    322
  Interest payments                         196         647     533    456
  Nettransfers                             212       -1,332    277    -134




                                                            Page 65

                                                      Annex 11
                                                       BRAZIL
                     Maranhiio IntegratedProgram: RuralPovertyReductionProject
                  Evaluationof the BrazilianExperiencewith RuralPovertyReduction




I. INTRODUCTION

Brazil is characterized by extreme levels of income disparity, with poverty rates much higher than in other countries
with a similar level o f per-capita GDP. The Northeast region accounts for only 20 percent o f Brazil's land area yet is
home to 48.2 million people, 30 percent of Brazil's total population. Poverty is endemic in the region, with 47% of
the total NE population living on less than US$lper day. Poverty in the rural space is more severe, with 64% of the
NE rural population (9.2 million) living on less than US$1 per day. On a national scale, 498 of Brazil's population
living on less than US$l per day reside in the Northeast; for rural Brazil, this figure jumps to 64%. Among the five
major regions of the country, the Northeast ranks lowest in terms of the HDI (0.608 compared to 0.764 for all of
Brazil). The five lowest state-level HDI are also in Northeast Brazil: Alagoas (0.633), Maranhiio (0.647), Piaui
(0.673), Paraiba (0.678) e Sergipe (0.687). These same five states have shown between 14 and 18% increases in HDI
since 199I.

The State of Maranhiio has the largest proportion of rural inhabitants among all Brazilian states (about 40% o f total
population). Some 50% of the total and 65% of the rural population survive on less than US$1 per day. Rural areas
of Maranhiio continue to show minimal access to basic services: 84% without piped water, 80% without sanitation,
and 53% without electricity, compared to 3296, 26% and 2%, respectively, for the urban areas of the state.
Approximately 32% of the state's adult population is illiterate, compared to a national average of 15% and a Northeast
regional average of 30%. The average educational attainment for the state is 2.8 years - the second lowest in Brazil -
and significantly lower than the Northeast average of four years. Many school districts, especially in the rural interior
of the state, have no access to education beyond grade four; in fact, student matriculation at grades 5-8 is five times
higher in Maranhiio's urban areas than in its rural areas. Without such access in rural areas, students are forced either
to move or permanently terminate their studies.

Notwithstanding these deficits relative to the rest of Brazil, Maranhiio has actually experienced one of the strongest
rates of improvement over the past decade. The HDI for Maranhiio rose from 0.551 in 1991 to 0.647 in 2000,
although this is still well below the national average of 0.764.     The State's strategy for addressing rural poverty
explicitly links interventions through the PPA to the desired increase in the HDI. I t will target investments which
have the greatest potential to raise the HDI, paying particular attention to the poorest municipalities and to the `rural
space' generally. Municipal Councils established under the predecessor RPAP project in Maranhiio (Ln. 4252-BR)
will play an expanded role in investment prioritization and allocation decisions.

Recent successful rural development projects - the Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Project (R-NRDP)
[1993-19961 followed by the RPAPs [I995 - present] - have helped to alleviate conditions, and present a promising
approach to addressing persistent poverty levels. The combined program - the R-NRDP (including a community-
based pilot part of the Northeast Rural Development Program before its reformulation) and the RPAPs - has
successfully financed some 54,000 community-managed subprojects in nearly 1,600 municipalities o f the Northeast
(77 percent of total), providing basic services to about 1.7 million of the poorest families, or some 7.5 million rural
poor, in over 30,000 separate communities. In Maranhiio alone, under the RPAP, over 4,300 subprojects across 211
municipalities statewide have benefited 197,000 families.

Although these achievements have contributed to a reduction in the growth o f poverty in the rural space of the
Northeast, the sheer scale of poverty there remains high. To address this poverty, the Government o f Brazil, in
partnership with the World Bank and the Northeast States, is expanding and consolidating the achievements of the R-
NRDP and RPAP programs through a new series of sub-national projects. Building on the successful mechanisms
employed under those previous generations, these new projects will continue to improve both effectiveness and



                                                        page66

sustainability of impacts through adjustments to operational features reflecting lessons learned from implementation.
In Maranhiio, the proposed project will be explicitly linked to the State's current multi-year investment plan (PPA),
which seeks to increase the state's HDIfrom 0.647 to 0.700 by the year 2007.

Strong monitoring and evaluation, combined with intensive, locally-based supervision, have been an important facet
of the program, contributing to the depth of knowledge that exists on its performance. From March 1998 through
March 2000, the program underwent extensive evaluation comprising a series of independent reviews to assess overall
impact in achieving poverty reduction objectives. This Annex presents findings from the 2000 evaluation, as well as
nearly a decade of implementation experience, focusing on the achievements of the most recent (and therefore most
evolved) RPAP-style projects (but also including information about the NRDP and the R-NRDP), synthesizing
lessons learned and already incorporated in the proposed successor projects.


11. THE EVOLUTIONOF COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT INNORTHEAST BRAZIL

Community-based activities were first introduced to Northeast Brazil in 1985 as a small-scale pilot component of the
World Bank-financed Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). For several years following effectiveness, this
community-based component - Apoio ds Pequenas Comunidades Rurais (APCR) - was the only activity under the
NRDP to disburse effectively and achieve positive results on the ground. The APCR, at a total component cost of
US$106 million, represented one of the most significant attempts o f the Bank to make rural development projects
more participatory. The APCR fund made grants of up to US$lO,OOO to community associations in towns of less than
5,000 inhabitants. About 60 percent of the grants financed community-owned ventures like grain-milling facilities,
seed banks, input-supply stores, and storage facilities. Another 25 percent went to small works projects (e.g., road
repair, community laundries, public toilets) while the remaining 15 percent supported institution-building activities in
rural community associations. Relying on rural communities to organize, prioritize needs, and plan, execute and
manage subprojects, this innovative component produced results that were both encouraging and replicable,
demonstrating that by involving communities, poverty reduction could be achieved at a low per family cost. Equally
important, the APCR demonstrated the ability of municipal governments - which were not originally included as
project participants - to mobilize additional resources at a time of severe fiscal austerity.

In late 1993, drawing on lessons from the APCR and similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, the NRDP was
reformulated into a full-scale community-based development program (R-NRDP). Significant features of the
reformulation were: (i)decentralized decision-making, (ii)state and community counterpart funding responsibilities
and (iii)delegated implementation from the Federal Government to the State and local levels. Subsequent evaluation
of the Northeast program has confirmed that not only was it an effective model for rural poverty alleviation, but also
became a key tool of the Northeast States for promoting organized decentralization, local development and
community participation.

After field-testing the R-NRDP model for over three years, eight Northeast State Governments (Bahia, CearB,
MaranhBo, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe) scaled-up the use of the methodology and
ushered in the follow-on Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects (RPAPs). Since their inception in 1995196, the RPAPs
                                                                          '
have financed nearly 23,000 community-managed investments comprising basic social, productive and infrastructure
services, benefiting some I.2 million rural families, with high levels o f efficiency, sustainability and demonstrable
impact on the poorest, providing improved access to services and enhanced employment opportunities.

Building on the success of this innovative approach to poverty reduction in the rural space, a new round of sub-
national projects was initiated in six Northeast States and now in Maranhtio. These projects will consolidate gains
made under the previous generations of the Northeast program and expand the coverage o f the program to all ten
States in the region, while simultaneously integrating activities o f the Municipal councils with the local government
and, through more focused investment linked to HDIs,promote asset accumulation of the poorest.




                                                      Page 67

111. INFORMATIONSOURCES

Strong monitoring and evaluation, combined with intensive, locally-based supervision, have been an important feature
of the Northeast program. Extensive studies of the program have also evaluated project impact in achieving poverty
alleviation objectives. Data for this review were collected from a variety of sources, including:

    Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government Performance:
    Evidence from Northeast Brazil, an evaluation of the R-NRDP and RPAP programs conducted by FAOKP (July
    2000);

    Evaluation studies carried out by independent consultants contracted by STUs in six Northeast states. These
    studies covered 331 municipalities, 671 communities, 3,888 families and more than 420 community subprojects
    of different types financed in Bahia, CearB, Sergipe, Pernambuco, Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte.          In Bahia,
    CearB and Sergipe, both a physical performance study and project impact assessment were completed. In
    Pernambuco, Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte, baseline studies and physical performance reviews were conducted.
    Inall six states, these studies complemented monitoring reports (semi-annual and annual) prepared by the STUs,
    covering all project activities since effectiveness. Samples for the evaluation studies were based on the most
    representative subprojects financed up to early 1998 for Bahia, CearA and Sergipe and early 1999 for
    Pernambuco, Piauiand Rio Grande do Norte;

    A community participation study, conducted by an independent consultant under the World BanWAO-CP
    agreement in these six Northeast states;

    Supervision missions carried out by the states, FA0 and the Bank during a two-year period from March 1998 to
    April 2000. These missions interviewed STU technical staff and visited a large number of communities in some
     110 municipalities to interview and meet with community leaders, beneficiaries, members of FUMAC Councils
    and municipal authorities (including mayors, council members, municipal secretaries). Case studies were also
    prepared.

    Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for the ten R-NRDP projects, which detail all aspects of project
    execution, Borrower and Bank performance, and indicators related to cost-effectiveness and sustainability of
    subprojects financed under the R-NRDP. Results from these ICRs were summarized and included in the Staff
    Appraisal Reports for the eight RPAPs.

    The Management Information System (MIS), which provides current data on all subprojects, including a
    characterization of associations, types of subprojects, number o f beneficiaries, subprograms, budgets, costs,
    financial transactions, subproject status, as well as relevant data and information on technical assistance, training
    and supervision reports. MIS data are updated monthly and transmitted electronically to the Bank which, in turn,
    operates its own database with project data and information on all eight RPAP states. The Program's monitoring
    and evaluation were cited Best Practice in the World Bank document, Measuring the Poverty Impact of Projects
    in LAC (July 6, 1998);

    More broadly, the Bank has also invested in a variety of studies and analytical work in recent years to identify the
    dimensions, characteristics and causes of rural poverty in Brazil and to develop strategic options for policies and
    programs. Most notable among these studies have been: (a) Brazil Poverty Assessment (Report No. 14323,
    1995); (b) State Economic Memoranda (similar to CEMs albeit at state level, SEMs have been completed or are
    in progress for CearB, Pernambuco, Bahia and other Northeast states); (c) Rural Poverty Reduction in Brazil:
    Towards an Integrated Strategy (April 2001); and (d) various surveys, evaluations and impact assessments of the
    R-NRDP and RPAP projects.




                                                      Page 68

IV. IMPLEMENTATION RESULTSOFTHENORTHEASTPROGRAM

a. Subprojects: Major types, costsand implementingmechanisms

Rural Northeast communities have demonstrated their strong interest and high level of demand for the program by
submitting, through December 2002, well over 90,000 subproject proposals for funding and implementation under the
combined programs.       Based on these proposals, the Northeast States cumulatively implemented some 44,000
subprojects, implying that a little nearly one-half of identified needs could be met, with available resources under the
program and after the analysis o f proposals presented.         Subprojects were implemented across three types o f
implementation instruments:

          State Community Schemes (PAC): The original delivery,mechanism devised under the R-NRDP, and applied
          also under Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP).

         Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC):               Initially piloted under the R-NRDP, FUMAC channels
          subproject funds through project municipal councils, where proposals are prioritized and approved through
         participatory processes.

         Pilot Municipal Funds Schemes (FUMAC-P): First piloted under the RPAP, selected FUMAC councils
         prioritize and approve subprojects submitted by rural communities and then finance them within the context
          of an annual budget allocated to each council by the STU.

Over nearly fifteen years of implementation (including the APCR pilot which preceded the R-NRDP), the delivery
cost of the combined program has been consistently low. Overall, the average subproject cost (including community
contribution) was about US$19,000, yet within the program, the cost structure (as a function of the differing scale of
subproject investments) varied significantly.     For example, APCR investments were limited to a maximum of
US$lO,OOO, whereas under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP, the maximum was US$50,000.                      Notably, average
subproject cost under both the R-NRDP and the RPAPwere US$24,000 and US$23,500, respectively.

Specific to the RPAP, subproject costs were remarkably similar for the different investment types (i.e., infrastructure,
productive and social), while average subproject cost by subprogram (Le., PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P) varied,
with cost efficiency increasing from PAC to FUMAC to FUMAC-P. Some 77 percent of subproject investments
selected by communities comprised basic rural infrastructure (e.g., water and electrification), another 20 percent were
productive in nature (e.g., small scale agro-processing and communal tractors), while the remaining 3 percent
represented investments of a social nature (e.g., day care centers or health-related house rehabilitation). While more
than 100 categories are represented in the data, rural water supply systems and rural electrification were by far the
most popular types of investments. Other popular subprojects included rural access road improvement, communal
tractors, small bridges, manioc mills, sanitation systems and small irrigation schemes.            These findings were
reasonably consistent across the different subprograms - PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P.

b. Beneficiaries: Families, community associationsand municipalities

Since its inception, the Northeast program has benefited nearly 1.7 million families. This represents 53 percent of the
total target population for the eight RPAP projects in aggregate, and about 25 percent of all rural families in these
states.  The gradual accumulation by some of the target population o f benefits and assets under the ACPR, R-NRDP
and RPAP (as well as other programs) has a significant impact on community development (see also Technical
Evaluation, Section VI). This constitutes an important element o f a strategy to graduate some o f these beneficiary
communities into other, non-grant basedprograms (see Section V for more detailed discussion on graduation).

Through December 2002, the combined program had subprojects implemented in nearly 1,600 municipalities (92
percent of rural Northeast municipalities), engaging more than 35,000 community associations. Under the R-NRDP,
PAC accounted for 79 percent of subprojects implemented, with the remaining 21 percent o f subprojects financed
under FUMAC.        The RPAP mainstreamed the FUMAC concept, resulting in slightly more than one-half of
subprojects being financed under this subprogram; PAC accounted for about 45 percent of all RPAP subprojects, with


                                                      Page69

an additional 4 percent made up of FUMAC-P subproject activity. In sum, the program has evidenced a gradual yet
sustained move toward increased decentralization of project implementation as emphasis has shifted from PAC to
FUMAC to FUMAC-P. Some 1,500 Municipal Councils - with two-thirds of membership drawn from potential
beneficiary communities and one-third representing the public sector and broader civil society - have been established
and are active in program implementation.

The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program comprises eight State projects in Northeast Brazil with total Bank loans of
US$444.0 million, effective in the period from late 1995 to 1998, and with Closing Dates ranging from June 30, 2001
to June 30, 2004. The combined disbursement o f the eight projects through December 2002 amounted to US$412.3
million or 93 percent of the total.


V.        IMPACT ANALYSISOFTHE NORTHEASTPROGRAM

Evaluation o f the Northeast program indicates that its primary objective - reduction of rural poverty - is being
efficiently achieved on a significant scale.

a. Locallevel

The Northeast program has made a substantial contribution to both the quality of life of the beneficiaries and the local
economy. The availability o f electricity and water supply, localized improvements to feeder roads and bridges,
rehabilitation of rural schools and health posts, and the provision of community-owned productive infrastructure, have
changed the socio-economic outlook of entire communities throughout the region. Equally important, the Northeast
program is contributing, through mobilization associated with subproject execution (and coupled with training and
technical assistance) to gradual yet substantial accumulation of social capital in poor rural communities.

Socioeconomicimpact

Benefits under the combined programs have included: (i)      improved living conditions; (ii) improved health conditions
and productivity; (iii) increased family income; and (iv) job creation- all serving to gradually lift beneficiary families
from poverty. Prior to the program, most of the recipient rural communities suffered from lack o f access to water,
electricity and other basic infrastructure. As of December 2002, some US$900 million have been disbursed to finance
over 54,000 community subprojects under the APCR, NRDP and RPAP. Through these social and infrastructure
community subprojects, the Northeast program has provided access to these previously unavailable services. Basic
infrastructure and social subprojects have also provided communities with cleaner water, better sanitary conditions,
and also resulting in significant health improvements for the recipient communities as well as savings related to
reduced medical assistance. Specific to the RPAP, an evaluation of the aggregate socioeconomic impact o f the
US$550 million total of community subproject investments under the RPAPs to December 2002 indicates that: (i)
more than 40,000 additional permanent jobs were created, (ii) additional 35,000 hectares were brought under
                                                                    an
cultivation, (iii)additional sustainable income or savings of more than $80 million per annum. When the impact of
the predecessor R-NRDP was included, aggregate investments o f about US$800 million through March 2000 had
generated almost 100,000 additional permanent jobs, an increase in cultivated area o f about 85,000 ha., and had
generated additional, sustainable annual income or savings of US$203 million.

At the subproject level, the socioeconomic impact of investments varies, but is evaluated briefly below according to
type - basic infrastructure, social or productive subprojects.

     Basic Infrastructure: About 77 percent of subproject investments under the Rural Poverty Alleviation Program
     were in basic infrastructure -rural electrification and water supply being the most important. Investments in rural
     electrification provide obvious benefits in terms of access to information, knowledge and even distance learning
     by radio and television, facilitating household work but also contributing to improved health for the entire family
     through better food storage. There is also evidence that, when coupled with other subprojects, rural electrification




                                                        Page 70

    can lead to initiatives or productive activities that create jobs and increase household income (e.g., small
    irrigation schemes, small businessesand agro-industries).

    Similarly, water supply subprojects directly and rapidly improve families' level o f well-being through provision
    of good-quality water. The construction of almost 12,000 community-built and managed water supply systems
    under the combined programs (to December 2002) has meant that thousands of families no longer depend on the
    intermittent water trucks during drought, thousands of women no longer spend 4-5 hours daily collecting water
    and large numbers of infants do not die of water-borne diseases. Analyses from the RPAP alone suggest that net
    annual income/savings per rural water supply subproject were approximately US$12,000/subproject.               These
    incomelsavings are comprised largely of time savings, foregone health expenditures and increased agricultural
    production. This is significantly higher than other types of infrastructure subprojects, which typically return lower
    than US$2,000 per annum.           Other common types of infrastructure subprojects, such as community road
    improvements, telephone booths, and construction of small bridges not only improve the living conditions of
    residents of small rural communities, but also facilitate the movement of people, inputs and products as well as
    communications with family members who have migrated and live and work in other towns. Analysis of a
    sample of over 8,000 basic infrastructure investments indicate sustained impact - 89 percent of infrastructure
    subprojects fundedlexecuted in 1995198 continued to be fully operational in March 2000.

    Productive investments. Investment in productive activities - Le., subprojects involving the production and/or
    transformation, or processing of agricultural and non-agricultural goods - were typically demanded by
    communities only after basic infrastructure needs were met. About 20 percent of investments under the Rural
    Poverty Alleviation program were for productive activities, such as small scale agro-processing and communal
    tractors. Productive investments have a relatively strong potential for generating income opportunities in the
    short and medium terms, especially for projects with simple production processes and low exposure to market
    risks (e.g., manioc mills, small irrigation schemes, tractors, primary processing of corn and rice, and cashew nut).
    Internal rates of return for productive subprojects exceeded, on average, 30 percent (see Annex 4). Furthermore,
    these productive ventures are, in general, financially sustainable, with about three and one-half years needed, on
    average, to recover the capital invested and user fees adequate to cover O&M. More complex undertakings (e.g.,
    clothes-making, community brick and ceramics factories) have also been successful when packaged with
    technical assistance and training. For a sample of 1,820 productive subprojects fundedtexecuted in 199998,
    some 1,580 or 86.8 percent were found to be in full operation in March 2000.

    It is expected that the financing of productive investments will stabilize, with STUs expanding financing to
    communities that have until now not benefited from infrastructure subprojects and /or from growth. Various
    cases have been identified o f communities that initially benefited from infrastructure or productive investments,
    graduated from the program, and are now beginning productive undertakings with the assistance of conventional
    sources o f financing (e.g., Banco do Nordeste, Banco do Brad), or other programs. This trend will be promoted
    inthe new project, with enhanced linkages to other projectslprograms, credit and markets.

    Social investments: Under the Rural Poverty Alleviation program, social subprojects (e.g., sanitation, health-
    related housing improvement and social centers) have comprised 3 percent of total subprojects.              Sanitation
    subprojects (e.g., latrines, septic tanks) have improved community health. Community centers financed under the
    program have served both social and productive functions (e.g., hosting various civic events, serving as sites for
    training).   Similarly, communal wash-houses that provide washing water for family laundry fulfill a social
    function while providing a valuable service to the community. Impacts were also sustained - for a sample of 239
    social subprojects fundedlexecuted in 1995198,88 percent of them remained operational in March 2000. Under
    the proposed project in MaranhHo, and in line with the State's mobilizing goal of increasing its HDI, it is expected
    that greater subproject activity will take place under this category, especially in regard to health-related
    investments.

Targeting

Effective targeting of the rural poor is crucial, given the matching grant-based nature o f subproject investments.
Under the RPAP, but also under the R-NRDP, targeting has occurred at two distinct levels:               (a) selection of


                                                      Page 7I

municipalities based on poverty level and/or other socioeconomic characteristics and (b) selection of beneficiary
communities through Municipal Council deliberations.              Furthermore, consistent with the demand-driven
characteristics o f the program, prospective beneficiaries "self-select" in that community associations identify local
needs and prepare subproject proposals to address them. Populations targeted under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP
have been poor and, in general, strategies for targeting these groups seem to have produced the desired results. There
is reasonable certainty that the relatively better-off and better-organized communities did not capture a larger than
proportional share o f project benefits. Targeting was somewhat less precise in municipalities where only PAC
subprojects had been implemented; the expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P largely resolved this difficulty, since
Municipal Councils - where community representation is strong - can make better allocation decisions due to local
knowledge o f both community needs and their extent of vulnerability. The recent Rural Poverty Review for Brazil
assessed the coverage and targeting of several social programs in Brazil; it found the RPAP to be among the best
performers in terms of both coverage and targeting. Not only have the vast majority of program resources under the
RPAPs (approximately 93 percent) reached the final beneficiaries as direct subproject investment, but evaluations
indicate that targeting of the poorest has been effective with 75 percent of beneficiaries having an initial income of
less than US$1 per day.

Graduation

B y improving living standards and economic conditions of beneficiaries, the RPAP and the R-NRDP have stimulated
asset accumulation at both the local and household levels, an important consequence of which i s that, over time,
certain communities have satisfied their basic needs and increased their socio-economic standing. Because future
project resources will be targeted to the poorest, these communities will eventually be precluded from further project
financing. Field observations suggest that the expansion of FUMAC and FLJMAC-P mechanisms has led to a natural
process of community graduation by Municipal councils. For those communities which have implemented a number
of subprojects, this informal graduation entails either (i)reducing the community's priority ranking within the
municipality or (ii)excluding the community's subproject proposals. Municipal council performance in regard to
graduation needs to be more closely monitored to ensure consistency. Under the proposed project, the following will
be applied:

          Graduation of communities - exit strategy. Most of the investments requested by communities in the past
         (around 77 percent) comprised infrastructure subprojects. However, since the rural poor are generally off the
         radar screen of any formal credit institution in the rural Northeast, particularly as individuals, project
         matching grants for productive investments and technical assistance can be catalytic by encouraging the
         formation of groups, providing some experience in the management o f financial assets and income-earning
         activities, and thus making them more attractive to financial institutions.     Therefore, communities that
         presently lack access to formal credit can qualify for one grant-based productive subproject, after which they
         will be graduated from such support, (under the R-NRDP and RPAP there were no limits, although as a
         practical matter the Municipal Councils have tended to limit communities to an average two subprojects of
         any kind, in order to ration scarce resources). At the same time, a major effort will be made to link
         communities graduating from productive projects, to possible sources o f formal credit. In particular, the
         Bank of the Northeast (BN) has increasingly been seeking organized communities to which it can provide
         group credit. BN and the RPAPs have already partnered in some places, albeit in an ad hoc manner - but
         there is now enough positive experience that the state o f MaranhHo and BN are interested in taking the
         cooperation to another level.     Therefore, agreements have been reached on information sharing and
         coordination, which will be detailed in the project Operational Manual: (a) BN will have access to relevant
         information from the project MIS about group credit candidates, which it will pass on to its units in charge of
         credit lines and government programs in which it participates; (b) BN's local development agents will be
         invited to attend Municipal Council meetings; and (c) BN will provide MaranhHo with feedback on project-
         graduated groups to which it has extended credit, for use in project monitoring and evaluation. BN has also
         undertaken to expand its testing of the Bank-financed CrediAmigo micro-credit program into rural areas.

         With regard to community infrastructure and social subprojects, graduation considerations are different.
         Most of these subprojects are in the realm o f core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social
         investments), and the definition of the minimum acceptable level o f such services necessarily varies over


                                                      Page 72

          time. Grant-based support is provided because of the poverty targeting under the project. The R-NRDPs and
          RPAPs demonstrated that the CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the
          poorest can work, in a cost effective manner and on a large scale, while also having important impacts in
          terms of social capital formation and improved local governance. Under the proposed project in Maranhilo,
          the state intends to encourage project Municipal Councils to proactively seek new sources of funding, and to
          engage in priority-setting and decision-making over a much wider range of activities, with a view to
          improving the effectiveness of local governments and the integration and overall impact of public resources
          directed towards rural poverty reduction.

b. State and Municipal Levels (see also Annex 4)

Subprojects implemented under both the R-NRDP and the RPAP programs have injected significant levels of
resources into the economies of beneficiary municipalities through direct investment, revenue generation and cost
savings. At the Municipal level, the program has delivered to the rural poor cost-effective basic infrastructure and
services in a timely fashion. Evaluations indicate that, had these investments been undertaken in the traditional
manner, they would have constituted a larger burden on State and Municipal government budgets and taken longer to
complete.    For example, the rural water supply subprojects in beneficiary communities have replaced recurrent
expenditures that municipalities and States have typically incurred to mitigate the often severe and protracted drought.
In Sergipe alone, it is estimated that such savings totaled more than R$500,000 annually during a year of "normal"
rainfall; in Ceari and Bahia, the amount exceeded R $ l million annually. In years of severe drought, such as 1998,
savings were at least doubled.       Information from the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast
(SUDENE) shows that between October 1998 and June 2000, total Federal, State and Municipal expenditures on
trucked water (carro pipa) in the ten Northeast states were more than R$65 million or about US$39 million. In
addition to tanker-related savings, water supply subprojects reduce municipality spending on medical supplies and
medical care by reducing the incidence of water-borne diseases.

From a fiscal standpoint, ICMS (sales tax) revenues from subprojects are expected to be small because much of the
incremental production is either self-consumed, not liable to taxation, and/or circulates in informal markets where tax
is rarely paid. However, the indirect effects of infrastructure subprojects can be large. Experience under RPAP
showed that there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became
available. This observation is also applicable to purchases of items such as agricultural machinery and irrigation
equipment, although these types of subprojects are not as numerous as electrification.

VI. TECHNICAL EVALUATION

Quality of investments

Technical evaluations conducted by independent consultants have found that works executed under the program were
technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries uniformly expressed their satisfaction with the quality
(good or excellent) of materials used in construction, and regarded more than 90 percent of all investments as being
satisfactory. This finding was consistent for PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P mechanisms. From 50 percent to 75
percent of all subprojects were considered to be adequately sized to meet beneficiaries' needs, another 13-33 percent
were considered under-sized, and 2-14 percent too large (varying according to State).

Cost-effectiveness (see also Annex 4)

In many cases, subproject investments under the Northeast program were substitutes for investments that would
normally have been made by Federal, State and Municipal governments. Evaluations show that costs of investments
implemented by communities under the Northeast program (either directly or contracted) were consistently 30-50
percent lower than costs incurred by public authorities for works o f equal or lesser quality.     Cost per beneficiary
family decreased as communities moved from PAC to FUMAC.

Cost reductions under the program were stimulated by several actions, including: (i)use o f standard subproject
models; (ii) accurate analysis of subproject proposals; (iii)
             more                                                  inspection o f works during execution; (iv) visits to



                                                     Page 73

communities prior to the approval of proposals; and (v) provision of training to those involved in carrying out
procurement in the associations. Supervision observations during subproject execution and visits to communities prior
to subproject approval were incorporated into the STUs' work routines. Additionally, standardized subproject designs
and unit costs and procurement-related training on pricing for goods, works and services, facilitated the process o f
subproject analysis and execution for the associations, and the work of supervision and monitoring for the TUs and the
Municipal Councils. In general, the program has proved that procurement by community associations can be very
successful and cost effective.

Sustainability (see also Annex 4)

Subproject sustainability was found to be enhanced by a sense of community ownership, by their cofinancing of
subproject costs and by communal responsibility for operation and maintenance of the investment. Recent reviews,
which sampled some 8,000 community subprojects funded from 1995 to 1997198found that about 90 percent of these
subprojects continued to be fully operational. This sustainability did not vary substantially, either in terms of whether
the subproject was completed under the R-NRDP or the RPAP, or across subproject types (Le., infrastructure,
productive, social). Observations indicate that community associations have generally been able to establish internal
rules for charging user fees, thus ensuring the sustainability of these investments. There are some limited cases,
particularly in subprojects financed under the PAC subprogram, in which beneficiaries, despite having participated in
the decision to select the investment, are not paying regularly user fees. Incentives to minimize such occurrences and
increased emphasis on FUMAC have been included in the new projects.                 Due to their relatively small scale,
subprojects, in general, were observed not to have a significant effect of the environment.


VII. INSTITUTIONALEVALUATION

The Northeast program - a participatory, demand-driven mechanism addressing a large target population - involves
many actors and stakeholders. The institutional analysis, therefore, focuses on the communities themselves as the
cornerstone of the program. In particular, it assesses how the program has served to enhance social capital in
beneficiary communities and municipalities. It will also examine the performance and capacity o f community
associations, municipal councils and technical units.

Social Capital

In addition to meeting basic community investment needs, a major achievement of the program to date has been to
foster social capital creation within rural municipalities and communities. Again, program evaluations indicate that
social capital has expanded on two levels under the program: (i)   as the program evolved from APCR to R-NRDP and
finally under the RPAP and (ii)    as the delivery mechanisms became more decentralized, from PAC to FLJMAC to
FUMAC-P. This is because the Municipal councils have served as representative and transparent fora for local
government and community representatives to discuss and prioritize investment proposals.                B y serving as a
participatory means for communities to equitably address their collective needs, the municipal councils have
succeeded in: (i)  reducing clientelism and political interference; (ii)strengthening the capacity of both communities
and municipal governments to select, prioritize and implement investment decisions; (iii)creating partnerships
between communities, municipal councils and municipal governments; (iv) increased community voice in the use o f
public resources; and (v) fostering citizenship through increased awareness o f social responsibilities of citizens, their
representatives and public authorities in community and public matters.

Some 1,500 municipalities have established project Municipal councils under the program. Approximately 30 percent
of these councils (in which community representatives have a two-thirds majority) have progressed beyond simple
subproject decision-making into popular participation fora for municipal planning and allocation of non-project
resources - a telling indication of the gains in social capital at the municipal level. In addition, approximately 25
percent of community associations are leveraging social capital acquired under the Program to access other non-RPAP
investment financing previously unavailable.      Although intangible and difficult to quantify, there is a palpable
difference in self-respect and confidence in many RPAP communities.




                                                      Page 74

A community participation study (Section 111) - an analysis based on a representative sample of 225 community
associations - revealed that from the advent of the R-NRDP (1993) up to the implementation of the RPAP (1998-
2000), social capital accumulation had increased by some 41 percent. A particularly noteworthy result of this analysis
was that social capital remained constant for the PAC approach, increased some 43 percent for FUMAC and rose by
76 percent for FUMAC-P, clearly demonstrating that empowerment of communities through devolution of decision-
making and, particularly financial management responsibilities, leads to more effective and genuinely demand-driven
rural development. Indeed, one of the most subtle feats of the RPAP has been that gradually all states have become
convinced of the superiority of FUMAC over PAC. Given the continued emphasis on the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subprograms, it is expected that the program's rate of social capital formation will continue to increase. Institutional
sustainability will also be ensured as links are strengthened between Municipal councils, local governments, rural
communities and other external partners, introducing these actors and stakeholders to a new way of doing business.

Community Associations

Fieldobservations, and the community participation study mentioned above, indicate that the community associations
created under the program have generally performed well. Collective responsibilities are typically met by the
members (e.g., appointment of office holders, payment of dues or user fees), particularly in better organized groups.
While there exists the potential for political influence in the organization o f these community associations, the
outcome has been generally favorable as mayors, STUs and NGO agents facilitated the spread of information about
the program and provided the conditions necessary for communities to capitalize on program benefits which met their
basic needs. Community association membership was found to be inclusive, with an increasing proportion of women
undertaking leadership functions.       Another important observation has been that subprojects implemented by
associations have tended to benefit entire local communities, and notjust association members.

Uniformly across the program, community associations share a common need for technical assistance. Not only is
this essential for the organizational development of newly-formed associations, but it is also needed to assist the
associations during the entire subproject cycle, from preparation to implementation and operation and maintenance o f
subprojects. Funds are available under the program for community contracting of technical assistance, supplemented
by similar provision from Municipal councils and the STU. Technical assistance will become increasingly important
as the program expands, and weaker communities not yet participating in the program gradually become involved.
Better access to organizational and management training will also contribute to the sustainability of both community
associations and subprojects.

Municipal Councils

Since the advent of the R-NRDP, the formation of Municipal councils - both FUMAC and FUMAC-P - has been an
important contribution of the Northeast program. Evaluations indicate that these councils, as fora o f democratic
discussion, have (i)   increased transparency, (ii)  reduced political interference, (iii)improved targeting, and (iv)
contributed significantly to social capital formation in rural communities.            Furthermore, FUMAC-P councils
performed even better than FUMAC councils, confirming the benefit o f increased decentralization in program
delivery. The setting of budget envelopes for the Municipal councils (under FUMAC-P) makes for more realistic
priority-setting than in respective FUMACs, contributing to an increased capacity by communities in these councils to
identify, plan and implement subprojects. These stronger FUMAC-P councils also were even more effective catalysts
for increasing community organization and thus social capital.

Experience on the ground shows that Municipal councils are becoming an integral part o f local government planning
processes, indicating that the initial risk of FUMAC and FUMAC-P councils being parallel structures to local
governments (with a life span tied to the program) is actually being overcome. Councils are increasingly being
recognized by both the local population and their elected mayors as valid representatives o f communities and civil
society, and as able partners of local administrations in fostering and sustaining municipal development. Obviously,
progress has been faster in some states (e.g., Rio Grande do Norte, Bahia and Piaui), but even in the other
Northeastern states, both FUMAC and, in particular, FUMAC-P are slowly but firmly taking hold. In approximately
30 percent of the councils, decisions are made not just on program-related allocations, but also on priorities for local
municipal resources. If   carefully nurtured, not only with the right mix o f technical assistance and funding support but


                                                       Page 75

also by insistingthat clear and transparent rules continue to apply to the functioning of the Councils, this model may
well become one of the most valuable and durable institutions for rural development inthe Northeast.

Over the course of program implementation, both the State Governments and the Bank have monitored the progress of
the Municipal councils and, as a result, have introduced a series of adjustments to improve their performance and to
increase their ability to generate social capital. Among these adjustments are: (i)  increases in the relative number of
community representatives on the Councils and continued diversification o f council membership; (ii)        greater local-
level integration through the implementation of Integrated Municipal Development Plans (PMDIs) and State-
municipal performance agreements; (iii)provision of more effective information, training and orientation for
Municipal council members, especially related to the PPA; (iv) increased responsibilities of Municipal councils to
expand their role in providing technical assistance and support to communities; and (v) advice to councils on other
sources of funds, including credit, to meet other community interests. Municipal councils are being encouraged to
take a wider view of municipal development, to define criteria for community graduation and to assume the political
and social burden for prioritizing community proposals. The councils have also been endowed with more secure
sources of revenue for their operation, so that they can accomplish their tasks without total dependence on municipal
resources.   Community associations have been made aware of their responsibility to help in sustaining and
guaranteeing the independence of their Municipal council. Finally, analysis suggests that the conditions whereby the
councils can improve their performance include: (i)  political inclusiveness, (ii)
                                                                                 stronger community representation and
(iii)awareness of the relative scarcity of resources.

Technical Units

Throughout its history, the Northeast program has been administered in each state by a Project Technical Unit (STU)
which in five Northeast states is under the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN).17 The STUs are the vehicle for
project administration and for communication with the Bank and the State Government. It is also the project's main
liaison with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and, in PAC municipalities, with the community
associations. The institutional set-up and performance of the STUs across the Northeast states i s diverse and varied.
Ingeneral, all the STUs show satisfactory levels of technical capacity, and have received adequate levels of technical
assistance and training from contractedlexternal providers such as Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacidn para la
Agricultura (IICA). Increasing decentralization, partnerships with public and private entities, and the build-upof both
capacity and social capital in rural communities and their Municipal councils have allowed both communities and
councils to assume greater responsibilities - including for supervision, monitoring and training -and thus imply a
potentially much smaller role for the STUs in the future. With few exceptions, the STUs have benefited from the
commitment and budgetary support of State governments: sound disbursement performance has been a notable feature
of the RPAPs.      STUs have, for the most part, implemented their functions efficiently, with few bureaucratic
bottlenecks.   The STUs' performance in the execution of training activities for associations and FUMAC and
FWMAC-P councils, is considered satisfactory. Under the new projects, this function will be improved, and training
made more relevant and timely, by increasingly devolving these responsibilities to Municipal councils.

The extent to which individual STUs are collaborating with public and private entities to leverage better project
implementation is again variable. Most of the STUs have formed strong relationships with the State leadership, with
the FUMAC and FUMAC-P councils and with municipal mayors. While there is widespread and active participation
from rural workers' unions in community mobilization, organization and other activities, formal NGO participation in
the implementation has been relatively modest. The notable exception is Rio Grande do Norte, where the economic
and social benefits of active, dynamic NGO involvement are clear and measurable. This situation is changing
however, and STUs are proactively seeking greater involvement and participation o f NGOs.




l7Bahia, Pernambuco, Paraiba, Piauiand Sergipe. InMaranhiio, the STU - NEPE - is under GEAGRO. The STU for
Rio Grande do Norte is located within the Secretariat for Social Action, while in Ceari, the STU is housed in the
Local and Regional Development Secretariat.


                                                     Page 76

VIII.    LESSONSLEARNEDAND REFLECTEDINTHE PROPOSEDPROJECTDESIGN
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation from federal to state and local
governments and to community organizations, improves program administration and outcomes.                  Experience in
Northeast Brazil shows that decentralized CDD approaches can reduce bureaucracy and eliminate administrative
bottleneck,s and reinforce accountability for project outcomes by placing decision-making near beneficiaries. The
project will further what has already been achieved under the RPAP, delegating additional duties to Municipal
Councils and utilizing STU central and regional offices to promote more responsive and local-level monitoring, data
collection, coordination, and supervision.

Participation by beneficiaries under the RPAP in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects in
Northeast Brazil has helped to ensure that investments meet genuine community needs, generate cost savings, and
increase community `ownership', thus improving sustainability of investments. This methodology will be extended
under the new project to both project and non-project investments critical to achieving MaranhHo's HDIobjectives.

Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria, can foster transparency and
minimize political interference in project resource allocation. Poverty targeting mechanisms under the RPAP have
been effective to date in reaching the poorest rural populations in the Northeast. About 84 percent of the program's
beneficiary population are comprised of small farmers and rural laborers living in remote, low density areas with acute
deficiencies in access to basic infrastructure and services. A significant additional population resides in rural areas
directly adjacent to the urban periphery of municipal centers. Experience with project Municipal Councils
demonstrates that communities themselves are the best-positioned and informed to target effectively. Under the new
project, broad targeting will be undertaken (a) at the municipal level, by prioritizing subproject resources according to
poverty indices (i.e., municipal HDIs) and (b) at the community level, by the Municipal Councils themselves, which
will be encouraged and technically assisted to undertake a poverty ranking o f the communities in their municipalities
and to use this in prioritizing subproject proposals.

Intensive supervision of CDD projects has been found to be an indispensable determinant o f success and
sustainability. It needs to be reinforced at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities, particularly
Municipal Councils and NGOs. Under the new project, supervision responsibilities will be increasingly devolved to
Municipal Councils, which will be supported with training and technical assistance. Measures will also be taken to
provide computers and information technology to the Councils to allow them to receive and exchange information
through the Internet and to modernize management.

A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides feedback
and necessary information to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool.
The project MIS will be enhanced to more effectively link physical implementation data with financial information on
the project, and will be integrated with State information systems to facilitate overall monitoring and evaluation of the
PPA. A comprehensive impact evaluation component will also be introduced to measure income, welfare and social
capital gains.

Dissemination of "best practices", such as experiences with NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte, EMATERCE in CearB,
social inclusion in Maranhso and FUMAC Councils in Bahia and Sergipe can hasten learning and reward innovation.
Under the new project, exchanges among states, municipalities and communities will be expanded further using more
frequent regional training seminars, and workshops and videoconferencing, where available.

Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies subproject preparation and
evaluation ,improves the quality o f subprojects, facilitates the procurement process, prevents over-design and enables
participation by poorer communities. The existing database of standard designs will be reviewed at appraisal and
technically updated and expanded where necessary.




                                                        Page77

Environmental protection criteria: Proactive attention to natural resource management and sustainability issues is
essential in the environmentally fragile Northeast. The project will offer an expanded option of environmental
subprojects which community associations can propose, as well as piloting of regional or territorial subprojects which
may cut across several municipalities (eg. watershed management). Demonstration projects will also be undertaken
in selected regions throughout the state to stimulate interest in the adoption of sustainable resource management
technologies and techniques. Municipal Councils will serve as focal points for channeling information from the State
and NGOs (e.g., AMAVIDA) on environmental issues relevant to the specific municipality. The re-designed and
enhanced environmental checklist developed under RPAP will be used to improve the criteria and procedures, and
their application for evaluating environmental impact of subprojects. An environmental specialist at NEPE will
provide additional technical assistance on environmental matters and training to increase environmental awareness of
Municipal Councils and community groups. Partnerships will be fostered with State and municipal environmental
agencies and NGOs to develop a culture of environmental awareness in the communities and Councils through
training and education.

Technical assistance enhances the ability of community associations and Municipal Councils to identify, prepare and
implement subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance
needs to be targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and financial capacity to
participate in the project. Locating and/or developing sources of technical assistance inrural areas requires significant
attention and needs to be monitored at the local level. Under the new project, attention will be placed on training at
the community level. TOthis effect, funds will be made available for the appointment of `technical advisors' to be
recruited by each Municipal Council. These advisors will be responsible for managing and coordinating local
technical and training needs. Increasing efforts will also be placed on deeper involvement of civil society (e.g., NGOs
and other civil and church groups) - particularly with respect to increasing the flow o f information, mobilizing the
poorest groups and supporting training activities at the community level.

A system of checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, is essential to ensure proper use of funds
and sound targeting of resources. Guidelines for performance incentives and penalties will be detailed in the Project
Operational Manual. Incentives may include increasing Councils' indicative budget envelopes, increasing the number
of investments or investment volume permitted to a community association, or incentives for environmental or
technologically innovative investments. Penalties would attach to cases o f mismanagement and diversion of funds
and include removal from eligibility to participate, reduced availability of funds, and/or judicial action. As important
as penalties per se is the free and transparent flow of information. Municipal Councils include participation of local
civil society (e.g., NGOs, Rural Workers' Union, the Church), representatives of public ministries and municipal
officials, and their meetings are publicly announced and open to broad participation. Project-financed computers in
the Councils will enable Council decisions to be publicized on their own and on NEPE's webpages. All of the above
are designed to institutionalize transparency.

Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision
criteria. Under the new project, a `one-shot' matching grant will be provided to eligible productive investments that
(a) provide services for a large number of community members; (b) whose collective use is regulated by strict
operational guidelines (regulamentode    USO); (c) for which 0 & M is assured by charging adequate user fees to both
association members and non-members; (d) meet the criterion of impact on HDI; and (e) include technical assistance
to ensure the sustainability of the investment. Revised procedures for productive subprojects are outlined in the
Project Operational Manual, as are arrangements to facilitate access to formal credit by eligible communities (Annex
2). Efforts will also be taken to expand the participation of communities in the ongoing "Fair Trade" initiative
(Come`rcioEtico e Solidbrio).




                                                      Page 78

Table A: RuralPoverty Alleviation Projects (RPAP) Loanand Disbursement Data'
                                                               -
                                                                                 Loan data
                                 Project total Loanamount          Loan             Total         Disbursed       Disbursed Disbursedfor
                                  cost (US$ (,US$ million)                        disbursed                           for     subproject
                                    million)                                    (,US$ million)                   subprojects

              State                                          (% projectcost)                     (% total loan)      (US$      (%total
                                                                                                                   million)*  disbursed)'
1.    Bahia                          163.4        105.0          64.3%              103.3          98.4%             94.6      91.6%
2.    CearCl                         99.6          70.0          70.3%              70.0           100.0%            65.9      94.I%
3.    Maranhiio                      106.9         80.0          74.8%              75.7           93.6%             62.8       83.8%
4.    Paraiba                        79.5          60.0          75.5%               38.6          64.3%             32.2       83.4%
5.    Pernambuco                     51.2          39.0          76.2%               36.0          92.3%             28.4       78.9%
6.    Piaui                           39.7         30.0          75.6%               28.7          95.7%             24.8       86.4%
7.    Rio Grandedo Norte              31.6         24.0           75.9%              24.0          100.0%            20.0       83.3%
8.    Sergipe                        53.3          36.0           67.5%              36.0          100.0%            33.7       93.6%
Total                           I   625.2         444.0          71.0%              412.3          92.8%             364.4     88.1%
 As of December2002.
'Aggregate disbursementsfor community subprojectsunderthe RPAP, R-NRDPandthe pilot community-basedpilot
 of the NRDP (APCR) totaledUS$738.0million as of April 2001 andcorrespondto total investmentincommunity
 subprojectsof US$903.2million.
 Excludingdisbursementsmade to specialaccounts. Includingtechnical assistancethis figure increasesto over 95 percent.




                                                                                  Number of subprojectsfinanced
                        State                               Total'                 PAC                     F U M A C          FUMAC-P
                                                                                     #          %                #         %      #        %
1. Bahia                                                        6,608           2,632      39.8%             3,331    50.4%     645      9.8%
2. CearCl                                                       3,056              982 32.1%                 2,047    67.0%      27      0.9%
3. Maranhiio                                                    3,946           1,331 33.7%                  2,615    66.3%              0.0%
4. Paraiba                                                      3,058           2,302      75.3%               726 23.7%         30      1.0%
5. Pernambuco                                                    1,601             508 31.7%                 1,047    65.4%      46      2.9%
6. Piaui                                                         1,199             391 32.6%                   808 67.4%                 0.0%
7. Rio Grande do Norte                                           1,697              70       4.1%            1,545    91.0%      82      4.8%
8. Sergipe                                                       1,820             343     18.8%             1,317 72.4%        160      8.8%
Total                                                          22,985           8,559 37.2%                13,436 58.5%         990     4.3%
 As of December2002.




             State               TOTAL               Infrastructure'                       Productive2                      socia1'
                                                             #               %                  #               %             #             %
 1. Bahia                                6,608          4,823            73.0%             1,722           26.1%            63           I.O%
2. Ceari                                 3,056          2,369            77.5%               655           21.4%            32           1.O%
3. Maranhao                              3,946          3,007            76.2%               613           15.5%           326           8.3%
4. Paraiba                               3,058          2,406            78.7%                 56            1.8%          596         19.5%
5. Pernambuco                            1,601          1,055            65.9%               369           23.0%           177         11.1%
6. Piaui                                 1,199            910            75.9%                127          10.6%           162         13.5%
7. Rio Grande do Norte                   1,697            992            58.5%               659           38.8%            46           2.7%
8. Sergipe                               1,820          1,519            83.5%                197          10.8%           104           5.7%
Total                                  22,985          17,081           74.3%              4,398          19.1%          1,506           6.6%




                                                           Page79

                                               Average cost per subproject
                   State                                                 (US$)
                                                      PAC       F U M A C     FUMAC-P           TOTAL'
1. Bahia                                           25,122         23,849           15,941         23,584
2. Cear6                                           32,782         29,512          33,23 1         30,596
3. Maranhiio                                       26,222         22,626                          23,930
4.  Paraiba                                        24,278         25,414          24,932          24,554
5. Pernambuco                                      32,507         22,661           9,385          25,403
6. Piaui                                           30,961         25,308                          27,152
7. Rio Grande do Norte                             29,477         14,352           11,333         14,830
8. Sergipe                                         32,839         25,177          23,316          26,458
'Totalof                                           26,997         23,614           17,190         24,608
 As     December2002.




                                    formed and Con nunity AssociationsBen k e d

              State                  Municipalities        Municipal Councils   Comm
                                          reached        F U M A C  FUMAC-P     Assoc'

1. Bahia                                     375            313         41       3,594
2. Cear6                                     177            134          5       2,410
3.  Maranhiio                                211            174          1       2,835
4.  Paraiba                                  220            159          0       2,458
5. Pernambuco                                173            153          2       1,255
6. Piaui                                     199            167          3       897
7. Rio Grande do Norte                       137            124          8       1,382
8. Sergipe                                    71            66           5       917
Total
*#
'As of                                      1,563           1,329        64     15,748
        December2002.
  of community associationswith subprojectsfinanced.




                 State                            Beneficiary              Cost per beneficiary family
                                                  Families (#)*       PAC    FUMAC        FUMAC-P       All
                                                                                                            ~
1. Bahia                                                 451,917      174      196            191       186
2. Cear6                                                 153,205      545      471            420       493
3. Maranhiio                                             184,473      379      294                      323
4.  Paraiba                                              108,430      547      556            766       551
5. Pernambuco                                            135,987      290      228            210       249
6. Piaui                                                 70,918       352      332                      339
7. Rio Grande do Norte                                   77,119       377      266            235       271
8. Sergipe                                               62,396       317      385            562       375
Total                                                  1,244,447      302      272            245       283




                                                         Page 80

3
M

                                                         Annex 12
                                                          BRAZIL
                      MaranhiioIntegratedProgram: RuralPovertyReductionProject
                                     IndigenousPeoples' ParticipationPlan


1.        Background

1.1.      LegalFramework

The Federal Constitution of 1988, in recognizing the diverse forms of social organization o f the indigenous
populations of Brazil, their customs, languages, beliefs, traditions and rights - including those over the lands which
they have traditionally occupied - provides for a profound qualitative leap in the legal and humane treatment of
these populations.

Despite the efforts made by the Federal government to operationalize these constitutional rights, there still exists
today a wide gap between that which the Constitution prescribes and the reality lived by these indigenous
populations, primarily in regard to their relationship with the larger Brazilian society and their quality of life. The
role of the government, therefore, as laid out in the Constitution, is one of taking those necessary actions to achieve
the social inclusion of these populations, in such a way that both indigenous and non-indigenous peoples can live
together in harmony, conscientious and respectfulof their differences.

While the indigenous peoples of Brazil maintain the permanent possession and "exclusive usufruct rights to the
riches of the soil, rivers and lakes" in their lands, as stated in para. 2 of Article 231of the Federal Constitution, these
lands nonetheless constitute Federal public property. Thus, as special use public properties, indigenous lands, as
well as being both inalienable and non-transferable, cannot be usedfor other than purposes expressly indigenous.

The process of demarcation is the administrative means by which territories traditionally occupied by indigenous
peoples are explicitly drawn. The Federal government, through the demarcation of indigenous lands, seeks to (a)
recover a historical debt left by the f i s t inhabitants of these lands; (b) provide the basic conditions for physical and
cultural survival of these peoples; and (c) preserve the cultural diversity of Brazil, in compliance with Article 231 of
the Federal Constitution.

Ineach case where an indigenous community possessesrights over a specific land, the terms of para. 1, Article 231
of the Federal Constitution dictate that the public sector identify and demarcate these lands, duly registering and
protecting them. These actions are explicitly linked to Article 231, and as such, the Federal government must carry
them out.

Concomitant with the actions prescribed by Article 231, the government of Maranhiio has defined a set of specific
policies to attend to its indigenous populations, having among them the fundamental elements o f affirming cultural
diversity, opening of "political space" for these populations, and the encouragement o f indigenous populations'
participation in the decisions that have an impact on their way of life.

1.2       Current Situation of Indigenous PeoplesinMaranhi50

According to information provided by the National Indigenous Foundation (FUNAI), the State of Maranhiio has six
registered ethnic groupings - AwB, GuajB, Guajajara, Kanela, Krikati e Timbira (Gaviiio) - which inhabit 17
indigenous lands, all of which have been demarcated. The total indigenous population resident in Maranhiio is
approximately 19,000. Table 1 lists these areas, the indigenous groups which occupy them and the municipalities
where they are located.




                                                         Page 82

   Table I:




Source: FUNAIIDEDOCISEII Jad2002

In the context of the national indigenous population, Maranhiio possesses about 5 percent of total, making it the
second largest in the Northeast region. I n regard to total State population, indigenous peoples constitute 0.33
percent. According to the Conselho Indigenista Missiondrio (CIM1)l8, the indigenous peoples of Maranhao are
divided among two linguistic branches: Tupi-Guarani (Guajajara, Temb6, Urubu-Kaapor e Guaj6) and Timbira
(Kanela, Krikati e Gaviiio).

What follows is information concerning the living conditions o f these ethnic groups in the areas o f health, basic
sanitation, social organization, infrastructure, education and other aspects o f life for these diverse indigenous areas.

Regarding health services, some villages have access to preventive and urgent health care services, mainly in terms
of basic hygiene, first aid, certain medicines, with transfer o f patients to other hospitals as needed. The most
frequent illnesses are flu, fever, diarrhea and intestinal disorders. Inthe majority of indigenous villages, there are no
sanitary facilities in individual homes, only those in the primary school, health post or the FUNAIoffice.

Concerning education, many villages are covered by the state system o f basic education, with regular schooling for
grades one to four and "multi-classrooms" for Sth and 6" grades. Many villages are also included in the State
literacy program (Programa de AlfabetizapZo Soliddria), targeted to youth and adults. Currently, there are 205
indigenous schools with 10,000 students in attendance and employing 472 instructors, most of whom are indigenous
and have been selected by their own communities. Some 21 Parent-Teacher Associations (FTAs) are responsible for
the management o f financial resources dedicated to these indigenous schools.

The basic foodstuffs of the indigenous peoples are manioc and native fruits. Also consumed are: manioc meal
(farinha),paparuta, grolado, rice, beans,wild game and fish. Some communities have access to potable water
through artesian wells, but in the majority of cases, water is obtained from nearby rivers, creeks, swamps or water
trucks. Communication outside the village is largely through use o f a radio transmitter, generally located in the


l8 Santos Barros, Maria Mirtes e Zannoni, C16udio. Povos indigenas do Maranh6o exemplo de resistgncia. Siio
Luis/MA, CIMI-MA, 1988.


                                                       Page 83

health post maintained by FUNASA. Many of the villages are accessible only by dirt roads, most in poor condition,
often passable only with four-wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles or animal transport.           The indigenous peoples
possess a rich and diverse culture, with music, customs, rites of passage, beliefs and traditions which are passed
down from generation to generation.


2.       Prior Bank activities inMaranhiio

Under the Bank-supported Rural Poverty Alleviation project (RPAP) in Maranhlo, beginning in 1995, indigenous
communities have demonstrated the concrete capacity to identify and execute small-scale community investments
through their own associations, with complete respect o f their unique socio-ethnic characteristics. In terms of
financial resources and number of beneficiaries, Maranhlo represents the largest Bank-supported intervention in the
Northeast region in regard to assistance to indigenous communities. From 1998 to 2003, some 85 small-scale
community investments were financed under the RPAP, benefiting some 4,900 individuals. Some of these small-
scale investments were productive in nature (e.g., manioc mills, rice mills, tractors and fishing boats), while others
were infrastructure (e.g., rural electrification, water supply, small dams) or social (e.g., school and home
rehabilitation). I t is important to emphasize that, in each case, these investments were prioritized and executed by
these indigenous communities, which are now also maintaining these investments and have contributed (typically in
labor) to the total cost of the investment. Table 2 lists the types of subproject investments financed and individuals
benefited for indigenous communities under the RPAP since 1998.

Table 2: Investments financed under RPAP, 1998-2003
Tvoe of Investment                  #                  Total      Individuals
  - 1                                       Financing (R$)          Benefited
Rural Electrification              29             1,357,030             1,467
Agricultural Package               14              774,754                615
Home Improvement                    7               184,804               343
Access Road Improv.                 7              342,886                367
Small Dam                           7               185,827               537
FarmTractor                         6              295,25 1               404
Rural Water Supply                  6              268,268                601
Manioc Mill                         4                84,707               238
Fishing Boats                       2                34,703               163
Comm. School Rehab.                  1               16,831                76
Irrigation                           1              47,574                 29
Agro-industry                        1              59,938                 65
TOTAL                              85            3,652,573              4,905

The experience of the RPAP with the indigenous communities of Maranhgo offers some important lessons: (i)
indigenous community organizations have shown themselves to be capable of expressing and prioritizing their
needs, and administering the resources received; (ii)the role o f FUNAI and other state public sector staff - in
mobilizing communities and orienting them in the subproject proposal process, through training - was crucial to the
success of these investments; (iii)  this partnership is encouraging a general reorientation of indigenous public policy
in the State, moving away from an "assistance" approach toward one of integration and participation; and (iv) the
vast majority o f indigenous communities, when compared to non-indigenous communities, showed a greater
receptivity to participation in community activities, likely due in large part to their traditional practice of collective
action. Further evidence of the strength of collective action in these communities is the fact that, in all indigenous
villages, there is at least one active community organization.

A recent diagnostic reveals that, despite the 25 percent of the indigenous population that has thus far benefited from
investments under the RPAP, indigenous communities still have high levels of poverty and social exclusion.
Traditional methods of production (e.g., fishing, hunting, subsistence agriculture) do not adequately fulfil the
survival needs of these communities or address the new demands generated through their contact with the non-
indigenous, interms of access to consumer goods, infrastructure and enhanced quality o f life.




                                                       Page 84

3.       The Maranhiio Integrated Project: Rural Development

The proposed project seeks to build upon the coverage of indigenous communities achieved under the RPAP and
extend it, on a priority basis, to those indigenous communities that have yet be reached by the project. The
Indigenous Peoples' Participation Plan, in the context of the proposed project, will promote the ethnic development
of indigenous populations via the provision of community investments and assistance for the mobilization and
training of these communities, with an eye toward maintaining their cultural heritage, protecting their environment,
means of production and well-being.

The actions and strategies found in the Plan were defined with the participation of indigenous leaders from each of
the groups listed in Table 1, during a training course sponsoredby IICA and financed under the RPAP, which sought
to prepare these leaders for participation in the proposed project. The training took place over a three-month period
and was designed in modules to permit, inthe interval between each module, the return of the indigenous leaders to
their respective villages to discuss the proposed strategies with the entire community. Various NGOs, including a
representative from CIMI, also took part in the training event.

3.1. Proposed Actions inthe Implementation of the Plan

Social Communication

By means of competitive selection of specialists, the Project will support the preparation and dissemination of an
awareness campaign specifically designed to meet the diverse ethnic groups present in MaranhHo, and their distinct
languages, customs, beliefs, traditions and geographic location. The objective of the campaign will be to inform
these indigenous communities about the project guidelines and processes, thereby facilitating their access to
resources under the proposed Project.

Trainingand Capacity-Building

The proposed Project will support a program of training, linked to NGOs and other institutions with experience in
indigenous issues, in which the following aspects will be included: (i)community demand analysis, through
participation of leaders and organizations; (ii)  prioritizing of demands and their compatibility with municipal and
State development plans (e.g., PPA, PMDI); (iii)definition of actions to be pursued to meet these community
demands. This participatory approach will be complemented by an exchange o f experiences, as well as the needed
capacity and technology, organizational processes, and due attention to the cultural values o f each ethnic grouping.
Specific training activities will include: community management and action, project guidelines, and activities for
agricultural and non-agricultural production.

Community Investments

Under the general guidelines of the proposed Project, indigenous communities will be benefited with subproject
investments, up to a value of US$50,000, which have been prioritized by these communities. Although no demand
assessment has yet been undertaken, it is estimated that at least 100 subproject investments will be financed within
these indigenous communities. As such, each indigenous community should benefit from at least one subproject.
The same operational Project guidelines will be applied to indigenous community participation, with adjustments as
needed to respect their distinct cultural tenets. Leaders from indigenous associations will receive training in the
operational guidelines of the Project.

Following the experience under the RPAP, the community subprojects will follow these guidelines:

1. Subproject proposals are prepared and forwarded to the respective Regional Management Unit (GR) by the
     indigenous community association;
2. Resources for the financing of the approved subproject are deposited directly into the bank accounts of the
     community association;
3.   The community association is responsible for acquiring goods, services and technical assistance, as needed;




                                                      Page 85

4.  The goods and works financed will be the property of the respective indigenous community, which will also be
    responsible for its maintenance and operation; and
5.  The supervision of subproject execution will be conducted by NEPE inpartnership with GDS and FUNAI.

The Project Operational Manual, which is part of the Loan Agreement, defines the guidelines and specific
procedures, as described above, for engaging indigenous populations in the activities of the Project.

Monitoring and Evaluation

Monitoring of the Plan will be done through the Management InformationSystem -MIS- which was established
under the RPAP. As such, the principal aspects of project implementation will form part of the MIS database,
including information on the physical and financial performance of the beneficiary communities, their socio-
economic profile and key indicators for impact evaluation.

Management

The Plan will be implemented by NEPE - the STU - in partnership with the State Management Unit for Social
Development (GDS), which is responsible for the coordination of indigenous public policies for the State of
Maranhiio. GDS has an indigenous office (Superintende^nciaIndigenista) which, in conjunction with FUNAI, has
already assessed and accompanied the actions of the RPAP in indigenous communities.                 This institutional
arrangement has proven to be quite effective and, as such, will be continued under the new Project.               The
administrative structure of FUNAI in Maranh2o consists of three regional offices, which work directly with
indigenous communities, a central office in SBo Luis and 12"indigenous posts" located in indigenous villages.

4.      TimeLineandBudgetfor PlanImplementation




                                                    Page 86

    w      Maranhiio:Demarcated IndigenousAreas
     48.




TOCAr




                              UNIDADES DE CONSEWACAO E AREAS AFINS

                                 Areasde PresewaGGo Ambiental (APA)
                                  Parques
                                 Reserva Biologics
                                 Areas lndigenas
                              + Rlos




                         Page 87

                                                    Annex 13
                                                     BRAZIL
                   MaranhiioIntegratedProgram: RuralPovertyReductionProject
                                      EnvironmentalManagementPlan


The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the proposed project meets the objective of addressing
environmental issues, integrating the analysis with specific actions as well as proposing methods for their
implementation. Specifically, the objectives of the Plan are:

        a.   Ensure that the proposed project is fully compliant with the relevant State and Federal environmental
             legislation and with the environmental safeguardsof the Bank;
        b. Promote the integration of environmental standards in the subprojects to be financed under the Project,
             both individually and for the Project as a whole;
        c.   Promote actions that ensure a convergence between rural poverty reduction and the conservation and
             adequate valuation of the environment; and
        d. Link environmental conservation and protection activities with actions contributing to an increase in
             the Human Development Index (HDI), in line with the State of Maranhiio's Economic and Socially
             Sustainable Development Plan.

The EMP was developed following an environmental assessment of subprojects financed under the previous project
(RPAP), the norms and environmental guidelines of the World Bank, specific literature concerning environmental
management and the impact of similar projects, evaluations of the RPAP, the environmental issues of the State of
Maranhiio, interviews with both technical teams and management o f selected State agencies, and field visits
conducted during September 2003.


1.      Initial Conditions and Guidelines of the EMP for the Proposed Project

1.1     Initial Conditions for the EMP

    The RPAP sought to build links between activities financed under the Project and the environment, including,
    for example, an environmental evaluation of each subproject prior to its financing. A review of the approach
    under the RPAP detected the need to strengthen both treatment and procedures related to environmental issues
    inthe management and operation of the proposed project.

    The focus of the proposed project, rural poverty reduction, is directly associated with environmental problems
    in rural Maranhiio, for example: (i)the lack of material goods encourages the over-utilization of natural
    resources to the point of their exhaustion, making it impossible to require the chronically poor to undertake
    environmental preservation; (ii)breaking this vicious cycle requires a means of raising income levels, opening
    the door to both reduced poverty and improved environmental quality.

    Considering that rural poverty reduction is one of the priority goals o f the State o f Maranhiio, the proposed
    project should operate in close partnership with the State Management Unit for the Environment and Natural
    Resources (GEMA) in order to build a new strategic approach to promoting alternative uses of natural
    resources. The following should be priority actions: (i)capturing local experience and lessons learned from
    productive and socio-environmental projects which have been implemented; (ii)creating partnerships in the
    decision-making and implementation of public policy, drawing on the participation o f State and municipal
    government, civil society and the private sector; (iii)focusing on community mobilization and capacity-building
    directed toward preventing environmental damage and compliance with environmental norms, including
    environmental licensing; and (iv) incentives and financing for the adoption of sustainable practices for natural
    resource use by small producers.




                                                    Page 88

   Contrary to investments in social and productive infrastructure, environmental protection and improvement are
    not always perceived as necessary by communities. The promotion of environmental actions and the financing
    of subprojects that seek to enhance the environment depend crucially on mobilizing and clarifying their
    importance on the part of the beneficiary public.

    Good design, implementation and management of environmental activities requires access to technical and
    scientific knowledge by all stakeholders, again reinforcing the importance of building technical capacity on the
    part of involved institutionsand individuals.

    Inclusion of environmental actions and criteria in the proposed project presupposes a bureaucratic backdrop to
    support it, which should be designed in such a way as to support the proposed activities with a minimal
    financial burden for the beneficiary public.

1.2      Guidelines for the EMP

    The majority o f investments expected under the proposed project have a low potential for adverse
    environmental impact, given their small scale and inherent characteristics. Nevertheless, some subprojects
   could produce locally-specific adverse environmental impacts. The inclusion of environmental activities among
    those eligible for subproject financing should contribute positively to the local environment. Likewise, the
    combined force of diverse subprojects in a fragile ecosystem could also generate environmental impacts - both
    beneficial and adverse. As such, environmental impacts should be analyzed for each individual subproject as
    well as for a series of subprojects implemented in a given geographical region.

    The environmental impacts associated with eligible subprojects should be identified during the planning stage,
    in an effort to minimize or even neutralize these impacts by paying attention to subproject design,
    implementation and operation.

    The environmental concerns of the proposed project should encompass the following aspects: (a) the beneficial
    and adverse environmental impacts associated with proposed subprojects; (b) identification o f subprojects
    which provide opportunities for employment and income generation through the protection, reclamation,
    conservation and proper valuation of the environment (c) seeking synergies among productive activities,
    community development and environmental conservation; and (d) capacity-building for all those involved in the
    project, especially the beneficiary public, to better promote environmental management as an element of all
    subprojects, as well as constructive collaboration with local efforts aimed at environmental management.

    As often as possible, the proposed project should take advantage of opportunities to make improvements in
    environmental quality, and use the financed subprojects as an environmental reference for the State of
    MaranhBo.

    Environmental activities under the proposed project should be conducted in partnership among Community
    Associations, Municipal Councils, NEPE, and the CAFs, and should rely on a constant interaction with GEMA
    and IBAMA and, as needed, municipal-level environmental organizations.

    The environmental objectives and activities of the proposed project should be reflected in the overall objectives
    o f the project, transformed into financed subprojects, made a theme for training and technical assistance,
    transformed into procedures in the Project Operational Manual, included in the information campaign, and
    finally an area for monitoring and evaluation o f disbursements under the proposed project.

         The Strategy of the EMP

2.1      Summary of Environmental Activities under the EMP

The EMP identifies activities on various levels to be implemented under the proposed project, for example:




                                                    Page 89

2.1.1. Community Subprojects (Component 1):             At the level of individual subprojects: (a) identification and
neutralization of potential adverse environmental impacts, beginning at the point o f subproject formulation and
extending through both implementationand operation; and (b) the treatment of the environment as an opportunity to
generate both employment and income through subproject investments.

At the regional level (e.g., water basins, municipalities or groups of municipalities): implementation, inan integrated
manner, of a collective of subprojects linked by the same environmental condition(s), e.g., interference with a water
sub-basin, Area of Conservation, or jointly located in an area of special environmental value or environmental
pressure, or which share a common environmental objective.

Also at the regional level: (a) inclusion of initiatives to defend, conserve and properly value the environment as a
means of reducing rural poverty and (b) exclusion/ ineligibility o f environmental initiatives that promote the
degradation of critical natural habitats, sensitive or protected areas, or that could contribute to a worsening of current
environmental challenges.

2.1.2 Institutional Development (Component 2): Undertake activities to mobilize the beneficiary public, as well as
training and technical assistance for all project participants in order to incorporate the environment in all stages of
the proposed project.

Table 1 summarizes the environmental demands o f the proposed project and the associated proposed actions. Table
2 presents the training needs by segment of the beneficiary public, and the proposed activities for this training. The
operational procedures which will equip NEPE to address environmental issues under the project are outlined in
Table 3.




                                                       Page 90

                  5e,




(I)
A
b

(I)
3
w
p?




       -
       8 a m    u
                0
          .9




                         i
                         h

.-.a
C
0
                            r,
                             Y
pc                           2       I
                             0
                             E,
 3
 E,          c
             .C              3
             i2              5
             a                Y j
 s                           .-0
                             L

 .e
 .e
 Y                           .->
 .-*>         'c-


    m




    c
    Y j

    .-e,

    F
    Ea
     2
    .-
     C




        A          A A A A Q

v1
2


c
535
tA -      L
     m   P




               Q
               a
               2

I    .n       I+




        h
        wM

                                                     Annex 14
                                                     BRAZIL
                    Maranhi50 Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project
                                  State of Maranhi50 Development Agenda

I. Introduction

This annex provides an overview of the economic context in which the Maranhdo Integrated Program: Rural
Poverty Reduction Project is being proposed. This document has two audiences. To the staff and Executive
Directors o f the World Bank, it outlines some basic social and economic facts about the state and serves as a
reference, as well as motivating and describing Bank strategy. To the State Government, and also to representatives
of municipal governments, Federal government, and national agencies, and to civil society, it outlines the Bank's
view of the main development challenges facing the state, and the Bank's own proposed strategic response. This
synthesis should also promote the integration of the Bank's activities, both internally and with the government's
program, and leverage Bank resources through partnerships with other organizations. The document is divided into
two sections: (i) Basic Data and Development Challenges and (ii)Diagnosis and World Bank Strategy.

11.      Basic Data andDevelopment Challenges

A.       Geography

Maranhiio is a large, poor, sparsely populated state on the northern coast of Brazil. About the size o f Germany (333
thousand km2)and running about 1,000 km from north to south, it straddles the boundary of the humid Amazon and
the drier Northeast zones and thus experiences a variety of climatic conditions within its boundaries.

The north i s the most populous region. Agriculture there is poor and largely subsistence-based, with a predominance
of rice and manioc, supplemented with fishing. A t the center of the north coast lies the state capital, Siio Luis, and
the ports and processing plants for minerals from Pari. To the south, Central Maranhiio was once the site of
prosperous cotton and rice plantations, but is now also devoted largely to subsistence agriculture based on rice,
beans and corn, and the locally abundant babap palm, along with larger dairy farms and rice plantations. Third, to
the west is the pre-Amazon with an economy dependent on forest products. The largest city here, Imperatriz, i s a
center for lumber-milling. A fourth region is the pre-Sertiio on the east, with an economy based on livestock at
higher elevations and rice growing along the rivers. Finally, Southern Maranhiio is climatically part of the Brazilian
Center-West region and the cerrado biome. The south was traditionally a cattle-raising area, but i s now a major
grain-producing region.

B.       Demographics
Maranhiio has a population of 5.6 million, about 3 percent of the national population. IBGE estimates that
population growth in Maranhiio is similar to the national average at about 1.3 percent. Although there are migratory
flows from Maranhiio to the North, Center-West, and Southeast regions, these and the accompanying remittances
into Maranhiio are not of sufficient magnitude to represent a development strategy.

Detailed information on recent migration i s limited, but some numbers from the 2000 Census tell the overall story.
There are 6.4 million maranhenses by birth in Brazil, o f which 5.2 million live in Maranhiio. Approximately one
fifth of maranhenseby birth have therefore left the state. Most migration seems to be relatively local, to the North
and Center-West. Of maranhenseby birth who were outside the state in 1995, 35 percent were in Pari, 10 percent
were in Tocantins, and 8 percent were in Piaui. Only 9 percent were in SBo Paulo, 8 percent in Brasflia, and 6
percent in Rio de Janeiro.

In-migration is insignificant: only 129,000 residents of the state have lived there less than 10 years (half are
accounted for by arrivals from the neighboring states of Piaui and Pari). Of non-native maranhense, 39 percent are
piauiense, 23 percent cearense, and 9 percent paraense.

The economic prospects of MaranhZo will be affected by a demographic trend that is affecting all o f Brazil: the baby
bust. InMaranhiio, the rate of fecundity (the number of birthsthat women of childbearing age would be expected to
have over their childbearing years) dropped from 3.9 in 1992 to 2.9 in 1999. As a result, the population of the
youngest cohorts (ages 0-4 and 5-9) is smaller than that o f the teenage population (ages 10-19). At the same time,


                                                     Page 95

the number o f elderly people remains small. For the next few decades, the ratio o f children to working age
population will decline, while the number of retirees will grow slowly in absolute terms. Already the ratio of
dependents (people under fifteen or over 65+) to working age population (15-64 years) has dropped from 95.9 in
1992 to 74.6 in 1999. This will cause a rise in per capita income, as the earnings of the working age population are
spread across a smaller number of dependents. This may also allow higher spending per child on child-oriented
services, as the proportion of children declines.

C.       History

MaranhHo has long been economically disadvantaged. The state enjoyed a brief economic boom in the second half
of the 18th century, when the start of the British industrial revolution prompted growing demands for cotton. The
cotton boom was largely over by the early 19th century. MaranhHo then went into relative economic decline,
sustainedby cotton, rice, sugar, and babagu, while remaining poor and sparsely populated.

Whereas water is a constraint on the development of agriculture in much of the Northeast region, large parts of
Maranhiio are well watered - particularly the southern grain-producing area. The state also enjoys proximity to
major mining areas in the neighboring state of Pari. These factors have driven the state's more recent economic
trends, with the appearance of large-scale grain farming, most notably soy, in the south of the state, and the
generation of a significant export center, shipping grains and ore from Pari (notably the iron ore mine at Carajis) at
the main port of Itaqui, near the capital on the north coast.

Like much of rural (particularly Northeast) Brazil, through much of the 20th century, MaranhHo was dominated by
large landowners. In many cases these so-called corone`is held onto power through intimidation and voter fraud and
were content to see the majority of the population remain poor and powerless. With the decline of the corone`is,
politics in Maranhiio came to be dominated by a political machine centered around Vitorino Freire, who was
installed by Getdlio Vargas in the 1930s, and remained a political force until his death in 1977. Politics has since
become more pluralistic, with a better educated electorate giving growing support to more inclusive, transparent
government. Maranhiio is probably best known in Brazil as the home state o f JosC Sarney, Brazil's first president
after the dictatorship ended in 1985. The Sarney family i s still active and influential: JosC Sarney i s currently
President of the Federal Senate, while his daughter Roseanawas Governor o f Maranhiio from 1994 to 2002 and was,
for a while, leading 2002 presidential popularity polls before withdrawing from the race.

D.        Structure of the Economy

MaranhHo is a highly rural and agricultural economy, in comparison with other Brazilian states. According to IBGE,
Maranhiio has the highest proportion of agriculture in state GDP, at 17 percent, of any Brazilian state. This number
understatesthe true dependenceo f the economy on agricultural activities, since (a) many productive activities do not
appear in household survey income statistics or are unremunerated, and (b) many services in rural areas are closely
related to agriculture and dependent on agricultural income streams for their demand. Over 50 percent of
employment is in agriculture, mostly subsistence. MaranhHo's only significant exports are primary materials:
aluminum, pig iron, and soybeans accounted for more than 95 percent of 2002 exports.

Figure 1 shows the breakdown by sector of value-added in MaranhHo's economy for 2001. Not surprisingly for a
poor state, public administration also takes a proportion of economic activity (25 percent) higher than the national
average (15 percent). Manufacturing accounts for a proportion of state output correspondingly lower than the
national figure: 15 percent in Maranhiio versus 27 percent for Brazil. The other notable feature of the maranhense
economy is the relatively high value-added in transportation, storage, and related services - 6 percent of total value-
added inMaranhHo versus 2 percent in Brazil as a whole -probably a measure of the difficulty of haulage within the
state, owing to large distances and a poorly maintained road network.




                                                      Page 96

                                                          Figure 1
                                Value Added inMaranhiio by Sector, 2001 (IBGE)



                                                     Other


                                            Transp
                                              6%
                                           Constr
                                             6%
                                          Prof Sew
                                             7%
                                         Domestic Good
                                              8%            Manu.
                                                            15%




                                                  Comparison: Brazil




                                              DomesticGoods
                                                    7%




E.       Poverty

Maranhiio was Brazil's poorest state throughout the 1990s, but recent progress has meant that the state has escaped
that definition. Nonetheless, Maranhiio suffers from challenging socioeconomic indicators. Table 1 compares
Maranhiio with Brazil, the Northeast region, its poor neighbor Piaui, and the three largest Northeast states (Cearfi,
Pernambuco, and Bahia) on income, poverty, and inequality measures in 1998-2000 (the last years for which we
have all these measures in comparable form). I t is apparent from these numbers that Maranhiio had lower income
and higher poverty than any of these comparators. Using measures o f poverty sensitive to the depth of poverty
(rather than only the number of poor)," Maranhiio fared slightly better. Maranhiio had a lower squared poverty gap
(P2) than both Cearfi and Piaui. Income inequality (measured by the Gini coefficient) was also marginally lower than
in the other Northeast states (and indeed than in Brazil). Maranhiio may have slightly fewer very wealthy people:
mean income of the richest one percent was R$2000 in 2001, compared with nearly R$3000in the Northeast.

The rural nature of the economy partly explains why Maranhiio is poorer than most other Brazilian states. Some
productive rural activities may go measured in state GDP, but rural areas are ,in general, poorer than urban areas.
More rural statesare therefore generally poorer than less rural states.




l9 is
  Po the poverty headcount ratio: the percentage o f people who are poor. PI is the poverty gap, the proportion of
total income theoretically neededto bring all the poor out of poverty with perfectly directed income transfers. P2is
the so-called squaredpoverty gap, a measure which attaches greater importance to the most basic needs. P2would
decreaseifmoney were redistributed from the poor to the most poor.

                                                       Page97

A simple comparison of four Northeast states with Pernambuco, the richest and most urbanized state in the region,
shows how these factors explain poverty differentials. Differences in poverty may (by definition) be decomposed
into differences between the rural areas of different states, differences between the urban areas o f different states,
and differences between the level of urbanization between states. Figure 2 shows that Maranhiio's "excess poverty"
in such a comparison is explained by the fact that it is more rural and also by the fact that its urban areas are poorer
than other urban areas in the NE, but not by rural differences: the rural areas o f Maranhiio are comparable with those
of other Northeast states in terms of income and poverty. This is consistent with the earlier statement that Maranhiio
is resource rich in comparison with its region. This has consequencesfor development strategy, which are discussed
inPart 111.

                                                       Figure 2
                  Decomposition of 4 NortheastStates' Poverty Differentialswith Pernambuco




Maranhiio has been outperforming its neighbors and its region on poverty reduction. Figure 3 below shows how,
since 1995, the poverty rate in Maranhiio has fallen faster than that for the Northeast as a whole.''             While
Northeastern poverty measured by IPEA has fallen by 2.6 percentage points from 59.1 percent to 56.5 percent in the
same period. By comparison, Maranhense poverty has fallen twice as fast from 66.6 percent to 61.6 percent.21Only
Piaui and Sergipe had higher percentage point falls in poverty over this period, although elsewhere Paranh, Santa
Catarina and Goihs also did better.


     Table 1: How MaranhdoCompared on Income, Inequality,and Poverty(1998-2000)




 Bahia            13.1           3,014            0.61            51.O%             19.8%       .   12.8%
                    7.9          3,296                            49                                13.4%
            Sources: Population, IBGE 2000; Income, IBGE 1998;Inequality and Poverty, PNAD 1999.




*'IPEA use
2o Using IPEA poverty rates.
             a poverty line of approximately R$125. Nationally poverty fell by one percentage point from 33.9
percent in 1995 to 32.9 percent in 2002.

                                                      Page 98

                                                        Figure 3


                                          Poverty in Maranhgoand the NE

                         75


                      h
                      $  70
                      i
                      P
                      .-
                      z5s65
                      II



                      .w
                         60

                      U
                      I"
                      Q
                         55



                         50
                               1995    1996      1997      1998   1999    2000    2001    2002



This good relative performance on poverty stems mainly from relative economic growth. While value-added grew
by 8 percent for Brazil as a whole in 1998-2001 (the most recent year for which comparable state numbers are
available), and slightly faster than in the Northeast (7.5 percent), for MaranhHo this growth was 12 percent. This
performance came mostly from agriculture, where value-added grew by 28 percent in three years, and
manufacturing, where value-added grew by 15 percent.

Who are the poor? Agriculture is the predominant source of household income in MaranhHo. Over half the working
population (56 percent) cite agriculture as the principal sector of employment. Most of this consists of subsistence
agriculture on owner-occupied or informally rented land (as opposed to employment in commercial agriculture). Of
the 1.5 million people employed in agriculture in 1999, 92 percent were classified as self employed, non-
remunerated, or subsistence farmers. Eighty four percent of the population employed in agriculture work without
remuneration or earn less than one minimum wage. A smaller proportion of Maranhenses define their principal
source of income as low-skill services. These include domestic workers (who account for 4.5 percent of the active
labor force) and people employed in small-scale or informal retailing. Of the eleven percent of the labor force
employed in commerce, three quarters are self-employed or are unremunerated.

Race is also an important dimension: World Bank analysis of the annual household survey (PNAD) found that in
MaranhHo a self-reported black person is 50 percent more likely than a white person to be poor. This feature i s not
particular to MaranhHo, however: for Brazil the ratio is two to one.22 What is particular to MaranhHo is the
concentration of Afro-Brazilians: 10 percent of the population self-report as black versus 6 percent nationally, while
62 percent self-report as pardo (mixed race) versus 38 percent nationally. Maranhiio is known among other things as
the capital of Brazilian reggae. Several q ~ i l o m b o sare
                                                          ~ ~located in Maranhso, with strong organized civil society
groups. O f the approximately 27,500 indigenous population in Brazil, Maranhiio is home to some 19,000, across six
ethnic groupings and inhabiting 17 indigenous lands (see Annex 12).




22Fiess, Norbert and Dorte Verner (2001) "The Dynamics of Poverty and its Determinants: The Case of the
Northeast of Brazil and its States," unpublished, World Bank.
23These are Afro-Brazilian communities that were originally founded in the 19Ihcentury as colonies of escaped
slaves and have since been allowed to exist with a degree o f autonomy.

                                                      Page 99

MaranhHo's human development indicator (HDI) was 0.647 in 2000, placing it second to last among Brazil's states.
This was, however, significant progress in relation to the 1996 HDI of 0.547. Comparative health and education
indicators are commensurate with this measure. Table 2 below gives comparable numbers for MaranhHo and the
same comparators as Table 1. Perhaps most acute are issues of quality in education. For example, in 1999
MaranhHo had the lowest score in standardized (SAEB) tests of both mathematics and Portuguese proficiency in the
eighth grade o f any state.

F.        Sustainable Use of Natural Resources

MaranhHo's most sensitive areas are in the pre-Amazon and the cerrudo. In the pre-Amazon there is significant
environmental degradation owing to ranching and logging. In the cerrado, the issue is one of defining land rights
and environmental monitoring so as to ensure that the swift growth ingrain cultivation does not prove unsustainable.

MaranhHo, in partnership with EMBRAPA (the national agricultural research institution), has launched an ecological
and economic zoning initiative (ZEE), aimed in the first instance at providing the state with monitoring information
on economic activities in its territory and their environmental consequences.

G.        Government, Fiscal and Administrative Conditions

In recent years, MaranhHo has benefited from a high degree of continuity in its State government. Since 1994, the
State has had only two Governors, both from the same political party (the PFL). Although it is hard to demonstrate
conclusively with empirical analysis, this continuity has meant that MaranhHo has avoided some of the costly policy
reversals, often mainly politically driven, that have plagued some states.

Despite making reform efforts and complying with its debt agreement with the National Treasury (STN), Maranhiio
is not in a strong position fiscally. On the key measure of net debt as a percentage o f current revenues (net o f
constitutional transfers to the municipalities), MaranhHo stood at 215 percent in mid 2003. Most states' debt
agreements set a ceiling for this ratio of 200 percent and describe a path over time for it to converge to 100 percent.
However, MaranhHo has agreed its present ratio with STN, and is also in compliance with other requirements, such
as the Kandei Law limit of 60 percent of current expenditures for personnel costs, and others.


                 Table 2: How MaranhZioCompared on Health and Educationin 1998




                                                                        Source: IBGE Social Indicators, 1999.

Having already undergone a considerable retrenchment of its public sector, in the near term the administrative
challenge for the State is to channel the efforts of its civil service towards effective development activities. In this
regard, two initiatives are worthy of mention: decentralization and results-based management.

Since 1998, the State Government has reorganized its operational activities into 18 cross-sector regional units
(Gerzncias Regionais) with responsibility for the day-to-day delivery of state services within their respective
regions. The managers of these units (Gerentes)have been given equal footing with the State Secretaries for each
sector (e.g., finance, planning, or education): for this reason, Secretaries were duly re-titled Gerentes Centruis. I t is
not possible to make a full assessment of this administrative arrangement in this annex, but there is consensus in the

                                                      Page 100

State that it has contributed to making government more responsive. There are some teething problems, not least the
rivalry that can be created between the regional managers and local mayors. Some regional managers have indeed
ended up standing in mayoral elections within their regions.

A second, more recent innovation has been the selection of the HDIas a target for State policy, and the reorientation
of policies towards this target. The challenge here is now to build systems of monitoring and evaluation around
sector policies in order to measuretheir impact on intermediate indicators, moving towards a system o f results-based
management. At least for the most important categories of state spending. The state is committed to undertaking
this, and indeed this i s the goal of the Horizontal Component of the proposed project. The difficulty o f the task
nonetheless should not be under-estimated.

11.       DiagnosisandWorld Bank Strategy

A.        MainOpportunitiesandThreats

Maranhiio's main strengths are its natural resources, rich cultural assets, and its strategic logistical links including
rail and port services (despite the poor quality o f roads). Its main weaknesses are its low performance on education
and consequently unskilled labor force, the threat of ecological degradation and weak monitoring capacity to enforce
protective environmental measures, and weak institutional capacity to implement its ambitious reforms to public
administration.

A development strategy appropriate for MaranhPo should build on these strengths while both acknowledging and
addressing weaknesses. In the rural space, policy should focus on agricultural productivity, stimulating off-farm
activities, improving road access where larger-scale agricultural activities are feasible, and improving the quality of
education and also educational access and attendance in the middle schools years.

Inurbanareas there remain some unanswered questions. Why is urbanMA poorer than urban areas inthe rest of the
Northeast? Key challenges are to improve health indicators, partly by investment in better water and sanitation
services, improve educational quality and also attendance at secondary school. And given the importance of Siio
Luis for the state and the potential inherent in its historical center, as much attention as possible should be given to
its renovation and protection. The cultural assets of MaranhHo's urban and rural areas, particularly Afro-Brazilian
heritage, may also be a potential source of economic development that is as yet largely untapped.

B.        Prioritiesfor Government

Government has oriented its multiyear plan (PPA) around the HDI, therefore its main priorities are income
generation, education, and maternal and infant health. To pursue these objectives, the PPA proposes six strategies,
which might better be labeled principles: economic integration, improving competitiveness, transforming the
economy towards new activities, social transformation, the knowledge economy, and economic sustainability.

The economic activities that the Government has identified for particular development by the private sector are
agro-business, tourism, construction, and mining and metallurgy. It should be noted that rather than `` picking
winners", this list essentially reflects a realistic assessment of where MaranhPo's existing strengths lie ("revealed
comparative advantage"). In similar vein, and in common with several other Brazilian states, MaranhPo has
identified a further list of smaller   " clusters" o f economic activity (arranjos produtivos locais), which it also
proposes to try to strengthen.

Based on the elements that constitute the UN's calculation of the HDI (average income, life expectancy, and three
measures of education: primary enrollment, secondary enrollment, and literacy), the Government has tried to rank
proposed programs by their perceived impact on the HDI through these channels. The exercise is based on
subjective assessmentrather than detailed evaluation, but nonethelessrepresents an attempt at dispassionate priority-
setting over lobbying or special interest agendas. As monitoring and evaluation become a part of the state's planning
cycle, the aim would be to increase the role of evaluative information in the selection o f priorities within the PPA in
future years. The strengthening of these systems is thus a key challenge for the State Government.




                                                      Page 101

C.       Proposed Strategy, Instruments, and Sequencing

The Bank's strategy, embodied at this stage principally in the proposed project, is built on six guiding principles:
     1. Build on existing Bank strengths and successes in the state and the NEregion;
    2. Integrate Bank activities with each other and with the Government's own program;
     3.  Integrate and build state institutions in the center and the regions;
    4. Recognize the rural nature of the state and its most severepoverty;
    5. Adhere to the Government's principle of targeting the HDI;and
     6. Recognize the importance of continued fiscal discipline by the state, designing a lending program of
          appropriate dimensions.

Within these principles, the Bank, through its analytical work and dialogue with the State Government, has
identified six priority sectors:

     1.   Rural productivity, including off-farm activities in the rural space;
     2. Environmental protection;
     3.   Culture, in particular protecting the value of cultural assets and encouraging their development in economic
          activities;
     4.   Education, most importantly rural access and quality improvement in all areas;
     5.   Water and sanitation in urban areas, with emphasis on its inclusion in preventive health strategy; and
     6. Transport, in particular the strengthening of key trunk roads important for the viability of larger scale
          economic activities.

Fiscal constraints imply that the Bank can probably envisage at most two loans to Maranhgo under the Maranhgo
Integrated umbrella in the CAS period (2003-2007). The first loan - Rural Development - clearly embodies all six
of the principles above. In particular, the integration of its established Community-Driven Development (CDD)
approach with other Government programs will increase impact, while the Horizontal Component aims to strengthen
institutional capacity, most importantly to monitor the implementation and impact of programs in pursuit of the HDI
objective. While the Horizontal Component delivers technical assistance to the State, further analytical work could
provide complementary assessment of appropriate results-based management approaches for Maranhgo.

Interms of sector priorities, the proposed project focuses on rural productivity by building on the CDD approach to
productive subprojects within the previous RPAP, while also pursuing education and health objectives at the local
level by integrating with existing government programs. The recognition and appropriate valuing of cultural assets is
also being explored within this operation. The environmental priority may be pursued through complementary GEF
grant funding.

The Inter-American Development Bank is also active in Maranhgo, in particular in the area of infrastructure
investment (particularly transport), through its second PRODETUR loan. One possible strategy for any future
expansion of World Bank activities inMaranhgo mighttherefore be to focus on educational access and quality.




                                                      Page 102

