                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001087




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-47350)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 30.0 MILLION
                                      TO THE

                             STATE OF MARANHÃO

                                       FOR A

    MARANHÃO INTEGRATED PROGRAM: RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION
                                     PROJECT




                                    June 29, 2009




Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2008

                         Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                             R$1.00 = US$0.432
                             US$ 1.00 = R$2.315

                               FISCAL YEAR



                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGERPE  State Agency for Agro-livestock Research and Rural Extension
CA      Community Association
CAS     World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
CPS     Country Program Strategy (ex CAS)
CDD     Community-Driven Development
CMDRS   Municipal Council for Sustainable Rural Development
FUMAC   Municipal Community Scheme
GEAGRO  State Management Unit for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
        Development
GEPLAN  State Management Unit for Planning, Budget and Development
HDI     United Nations Human Development Index
IBAMA   Federal Environmental Agency
IBGE    Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
MIS     Management Information System
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NEPE    State Special Projects Unit/GEAGRO
PMDI    Municipal Plan for Integrated Development
PPA     Multi-Year Government Investment Plan
PRODIM  Maranhão Integrated Program
PRONAF  National Program for Support to Family Agriculture
SEBRAE  Brazilian Service for Support to Small Enterprise
SIAFEM  State Government Budgetary and Accounting System
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
STU     State Technical Unit (NEPE)
TA      Technical Assistance

     Vice President: Pamela Cox

   Country Director: Makhtar Diop

    Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser

Project Team Leader: Jorge A. Muñoz

  ICR Team Leader: Jorge A. Muñoz

                                               BRAZIL


         Maranhão Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project



                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ..........................................................................................17
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................23
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................23
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................25
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................36
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............37
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................39
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................43
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................45
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................51
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................52
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    BR Maranhao
                                                                    Integrated Program:
Country:               Brazil                 Project Name:
                                                                    Rural Poverty
                                                                    Reduction Project
Project ID:            P080830                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-47350
ICR Date:              06/30/2009             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    STATE OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    MARANHÃO
Original Total
                       USD 30.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 19.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
SEPLAN
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/06/2000    Effectiveness:                          02/23/2006
Appraisal:             11/10/2003    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/18/2004    Mid-term Review:      05/14/2008        04/13/2008
                                     Closing:              12/31/2008        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:      Moderately                                   Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Government:           Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:Moderately             Implementing          Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory         Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank           Moderately             Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:           Unsatisfactory         Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 30                45
Health                                                           30                18
Other social services                                              3               12
Primary education                                                30                18
Sub-national government administration                             7                7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                      20              20
Participation and civic engagement                                 40              40
Rural services and infrastructure                                  40              40


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                          Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Makhtar Diop                        Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager:           Ethel Sennhauser                    Mark E. Cackler
Project Team Leader:      Jorge A. Munoz                      Luis O. Coirolo
ICR Team Leader:          Jorge A. Munoz
ICR Primary Author:       Anna F. Roumani
                          Jorge A. Munoz



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To reduce poverty by increasing the Human Development Index (HDI) from 0.647 to
0.700 by 2007, through: (i) strengthening results-based management capacity at State



                                                ii

level for planning, cross-sectoral integration, monitoring and evaluation of public policies
and investments under Maranhao's PPA; (ii) supporting cross-sectoral integration of
development actions at the municipal and local levels by implementing integrated
municipal development plans and introducing State-municipal performance agreements;
(iii) financing demand-driven community investments for income generation, health and
sanitation, education, culture, environmental management and others impacting HDI and
environmental sustainability; (iv) strengthening municipal governance through the
participation of community associations and municipal councils in decisions relating
directly to improvements in living conditions of the rural poor, and through capacity-
building focused on integrating environmental sustainability issues in the decision-
making process.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Project Objectives were not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase in statewide and municipal HDIs attributable directly to project
                technical assistance and investments.
                                           0.7 (to be
                                           informally est. at

Value                                      MTR and end-

quantitative or 0.647 statewide            Project). Formal   N/A            Not measured
Qualitative)                               calculation of HDI
                                           by the state is
                                           normally at 10-
                                           year intervals.
Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008         12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement unknown. Due to late start of project activities, no estimate was

achievement)    done at the MTR or at closing. HDI calculated every 10 years

Indicator 2 :   Improvement in state's capacity to achieve cross-sector integration of public
                policies and investments, and to effectively plan, monitor and evaluate its PPA.
Value
quantitative or Zero                       N/A                N/A            Not measured or

Qualitative)                                                                 assessed.

Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008         12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved. The Horizontal Integration component designed to establish

achievement)    results-based management and monitoring of PPA progress, did not proceed.

                Number of state-municipal performance agreements under implementation and
Indicator 3 :   achieving a positive impact on cross-sector integration and investment
                effectiveness at municipal and local levels.
Value           Zero                       Not established at N/A            Zero



                                                iii

quantitative or                            appraisal.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments        Not achieved. No state-municipal performance agreements or integrated
(incl. %        municipal development plans were established. NEPE had just started
achievement)    discussions on this aspect at the time of closing.
                Number of project Municipal Councils participating in priority-setting and
Indicator 4 :   decision-making on resource allocation of both project and non-project funded
                development activities.
Value                                      50% of all project                80 CMDRSs (37%
quantitative or Zero                       Municipal           N/A           of total) achieved
Qualitative)                               Councils                          this target
Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008

Comments        Partially achieved. MTR found strong evidence that trained CMDRSs were

(incl. %        routinely discussing integration of complementary programs and channeling

achievement)    community demand to other programs, e.g., Luz para Todos, and municipal
                health and education programs

Indicator 5 :   Number of community subprojects approved following the criteria of impact on
                HDI and environmental sustainability.
Value
quantitative or Zero                       100%                N/A           100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. Subproject priority-setting and approval was routinely aligned to the

achievement)    three main variables for HDI, and to environmental sustainability.

Indicator 6 :   Number of families benefited by project activities.
Value
quantitative or Zero (project treated as   80,000 families     N/A           40,800 families

Qualitative)    stand-alone)                                                 benefited

Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved. The project financed subprojects for 40,800 families, 51% of

achievement)    planned total.

Indicator 7 :   Incremental employment generated from subproject investments
Value                                      Not established at                Not known due to
quantitative or Zero                                           N/A           lack of evaluation
Qualitative)                               appraisal                         study
Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement unknown. Evaluation program not launched by closing date
achievement)
Indicator 8 :   Increase in social welfare of rural communities
Value
quantitative or Zero                       Not established at  N/A           Not measured
Qualitative)                               appraisal

Date achieved 04/24/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments        Achievement unknown. Evaluation program not launched by closing date.



                                                iv

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :   Increase in social capital index of project Municipal Councils (CMDRS)
Value
quantitative or Zero                        Not established atN/A            Not measured
Qualitative)                                appraisal

Date achieved 04/24/2004                    12/31/2008        12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement unknown. Evaluations program not launched by closing date.
achievement)

Indicator 10 :  Number of communities successfully graduated from the program and
                successfully linked to other financing
Value
quantitative or Zero                        Not established atN/A            Not measured
Qualitative)                                appraisal

Date achieved 04/24/2004                    12/31/2008        12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement unknown. Evaluation program not launched by closing date.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number and type of subprojects
Value
(quantitative   NA                          1,200             1,000          626
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/24/2004                    12/31/2008        04/30/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved. 55% infrastructure, 38% productive, 7% social investments
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Number of subprojects operating and well-maintained two years after completion
Value
(quantitative   Zero                        Not established atN/A            Not known
or Qualitative)                             appraisal

Date achieved 04/24/2004                    12/31/2008        12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement unknown.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Cost -effectiveness and quality of of subprojects
Value
(quantitative   Zero                        Not established atN/A            Not measured.
or Qualitative)                             appraisal

Date achieved 04/24/2004                    12/31/2008        12/31/2008     12/31/2008
Comments        Not achieved. The study required under Loan Agreement to specifically



                                                 v

(incl. %       measure/assess these elements was not done.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Economic efficiency and financial viability of productive subprojects

                                         Not established at                MTR case study
Value                                                                      shows return of
(quantitative  Zero                      appraisal due       N/A           about 12% on
or Qualitative)                          demand-driven
                                         nature of project.                manioc gum
                                                                           production.
Date achieved 04/24/2004                 12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Assessment of case studies only was made (manioc starch, rustic poultry, water

achievement)   distribution, household sanitation facilities)

Indicator 5 :  Number of community associations in the project area
Value
(quantitative  Zero                      900 associations    N/A           612 associations

or Qualitative)                                                            (64%)

Date achieved 04/24/2004                 12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Number of subproject proposals submitted per year
                                          Not established at
Value                                    appraisal due to                  Average 605 per
(quantitative  Zero                      demand-driven       N/A           year since
or Qualitative)                          nature of the                     effectiveness
                                         project
Date achieved 04/24/2004                 12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/24/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Total demand was 1,814 subprojects.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Percentage of women in CMDRSs and community associations
Value
(quantitative  Zero                      Not established at  N/A           Unknown
or Qualitative)                          appraisal

Date achieved 04/24/2004                 12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Achievement unknown, not reported by NEPE
achievement)

Indicator 8 :  Number of community associations participating in CMDRSs and which do not
               have subprojects
Value
(quantitative  Zero                      N/A                 N/A           Estimated at 1,188

or Qualitative)                                                            associations.

Date achieved 04/24/2004                 12/31/2008          12/31/2008    12/31/2008
Comments       Rough estimate obtained by taking actual subprojects financed as percentage of
(incl. %       total proposals sent by CMDRSs and registered with NEPE - 1,188 or 65.5% of
achievement)   total demand.




                                               vi

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                     IP             Disbursements
                                                                 (USD millions)
  1   11/18/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  2   11/18/2004        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  3   04/29/2005        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  0.00
  4   06/23/2005       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                 0.00
  5   05/20/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  2.15
  6   10/05/2006        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  4.11
  7   02/23/2007        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  6.07
  8   09/11/2007        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  6.96
  9   11/28/2007        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory         10.13
  10  06/13/2008        Satisfactory         Satisfactory                14.87
  11  06/17/2008        Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory         14.87

  12  11/26/2008         Moderately          Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory                19.20

  13  12/14/2008         Moderately          Moderately
                       Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory                19.20



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Both the context and justification for this project--known as the Maranhão Integrated
Program (PRODIM)--are found in the characteristics and history of the Northeast region of Brazil
which, at the time of appraisal, housed 49% of all Brazilians living on US$1.00/day or less. Some
11.5 million people live in thousands of small communities and towns, eking out a living in a
vast, largely semi-arid region disadvantaged historically by lack of investment in socio-economic
infrastructure and services including health and education; a weak natural resource base, low
labor productivity and skewed landholding, and by variable agro-climatic conditions including
severe drought.


1.1.2    The State of Maranhão is exceptionally poor, even by Northeast standards, and was
classified at appraisal as the second poorest state in Brazil on a per capita income basis, and the
poorest based on its Human Development Index (HDI) ranking.1 At appraisal, about 60% of all
state residents were living on about US$1.00/day. The state covers some 332,000 sq km, is the
eighth largest state in Brazil and the most rural, and agro-climatically, it is a border Amazon state
not normally affected by drought. Rural areas of the state showed serious deficits in access to
basic services: 84% of all families lacked piped water, 80% had no sanitation, and 53% lacked
electricity. Social indicators were also well below national averages, with extremely poor
indicators for education and health. Average educational attainment was just 2.8 years compared
to 4 years for the overall Northeast Region. A high proportion of the state's municipalities
harbored precarious, unhealthy living conditions critically affecting childhood survival. The state
was also facing important environmental issues caused by rampant deforestation, watershed
degradation, inadequate livestock and agricultural technologies and occupation of protected areas
and legal reserves.

1.1.3    Government's Strategy and Actions Taken. Despite these conditions, Maranhão could
point to one of Brazil's strongest rates of improvement over the previous decade with its HDI
rising from 0.551 in 1991 to 0.647 in 2000, although this was still the lowest national ranking and
well below the national average of 0.764. The State's strategy for addressing rural poverty was to
explicitly link interventions under its Multi-year Investment Plan (PPA) to the desired increase in
HDI. Targeted investments ­ including under the proposed project - would be those with greatest
potential to increase HDI and would be focused on the poorest municipalities and the broader
"rural space".

1.1.4    The State Government planned to introduce agreements with municipal governments
(contratos de adesão) committing the parties to performance targets/indicators related to the
expenditure program in the PPA and the state's HDI objective. Municipal Councils established
under the previous Maranhão Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP, Ln. 4252-BR) would
further expand their role in investment priority-setting and resource allocation, closely aligned to
HDI criteria. The State Management Unit for Planning, Budget and Management (GEPLAN)
would be responsible for integrating, monitoring and evaluating state, municipal and federal
expenditures on poverty reduction, using a results-based management information system (MIS)


1
  United Nations composite index measuring economic and social development and in Brazil, measured every 10
years.




                                                   1

to which the project's own MIS would be a linked. The State also planned to make a major effort
to inform the Municipal Councils and communities of the availability of several proven programs
in education and health which communities could access through their Councils under the
project's integration function/rubric.

1.1.5    In regard to environmental challenges, which clearly required an integrated approach, the
State's strategy was to work with the communities and Councils to sensitize them to the causes
and impacts of environmental degradation, encouraging them to address environmental
sustainability in local planning, identify specific problems in their locales and seek project
financing to address them (e.g., subprojects for production and planting of native seedlings, re-
forestation of valuable areas, sale of environmental services and creation of demonstration areas
for conservation technologies).


1.1.6    The integration of policies and investments within a results-based management
framework ­ an innovative aspect of this project ­ implied both spatial and cross-sector actions.
The State's strategy was to decentralize government's structure to its 18 regions, and to establish
computerized systems to integrate planning and budgeting functions, and to track the planning
and execution of public programs at the municipal level. Links would be created between
statistical data collection, analysis and policy formulation, and links tracked between the
execution of programs and their impact on HDI. Sustained cross-sector dialogue was deemed
essential to build consensus on this new approach.

1.1.7    The State, having already decentralized fiscal resources, public investment, priority-
setting and program implementation based on the new Brazilian Constitution of 1988, was intent
on further strengthening local and municipal capacity to effectively operate under this structure.
There were at the time 216 Municipal Councils developed by the previous Bank-supported Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP) along with other types of councils for different purposes. The
plan was to consolidate all these entities into Municipal Councils for Sustainable Rural
Development (CMDRS) with a broad mandate to improve municipal HDI. While the composition
of these councils was expected to vary, they would maintain a majority representation of
beneficiary communities.

1.1.8    Rationale for Bank Assistance. Bank support for this project was seen as adding value
by: (a) consolidating and scaling up the excellent physical results of the previous project which
saw 197,000 families benefit from 4,200 subprojects using the CDD approach; (b) ensuring that
project design reflected international best practice in CDD as well as globally-accepted standards
of monitoring, evaluation and impact assessment; (c) facilitating closer local integration of the
project Municipal Councils with the full range of rural poverty reduction programs due to its role
in financing the RPAP and developing the Municipal Council mechanism, as well as its
involvement in other anti-poverty sector programs; and (d) introducing an innovative Horizontal
Integration component, to develop results-based management methods, and strengthen planning,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the State's investment program (PPA).

1.1.9    Consistency with the CAS for Brazil (2003-2007), which sought a more equitable,
sustainable and competitive Brazil, would be achieved inter alia, through integrated responses to
development challenges. The CAS supported the Bank's longstanding commitment to the
Northeast region and consistent with the CAS, the project supported the NE State of Maranhão,
and specifically its poorest municipalities with lowest HDIs. It supported integrated actions both
locally and centrally through the Horizontal Integration component, and was expected to leverage
additional resources by linking the Municipal Councils to a range of stakeholders/partners.



                                                  2

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1    As stated in the PAD, the overriding project development objective (PDO) was to help
Maranhão achieve the goal of reducing poverty by increasing HDI from 0.647 to 0.700 by the
year 2007 by: (a) strengthening the results-based management capacity at the State level for
planning, cross-sector integration, monitoring and evaluation of public policies and investments
under its Multi-year Development Plan (PPA, 2004-2007); (b) supporting cross-sector integration
of development actions at the municipal and local levels through the design and implementation
of integrated municipal development plans and the introduction of State-municipal performance
agreements; (c) financing demand-driven community investments for income-generation, health
and sanitation, education, culture, environmental management and others impacting on HDI and
environmental sustainability; and (d) strengthening municipal governance through the
participation of community associations and municipal councils in decisions directly related to
improvements in the living conditions of the rural poor, and through capacity-building focused on
the integration of environmental sustainability issues in the decision-making process.

1.2.2    Key performance indicators for the PDO, as cited in the PAD:

    ·    Increase in state-wide and municipal HDIs attributable directly to project technical
         assistance and investments;
    ·    Improved State capacity to achieve cross-sector integration of public policies and
         investments, and to effectively plan, monitor and evaluate its PPA;
    ·    Number of State-municipal performance agreements under implementation and achieving
         a positive impact on cross-sector integration and development effectiveness at municipal
         and local levels;
    ·    Number of project Municipal Councils (CMDRSs) participating in priority-setting and
         decision-making on resource allocation of both project and non-project funded
         development activities;
    ·    Number of community subprojects approved following the criteria of impact on HDI and
         environmental sustainability; and,
    ·    Number of families benefited by project activities.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1    While the project was expected to benefit indirectly many of the 2.7 million people living
in rural areas as a result of better cross-sector integration and targeting of development activities,
the direct beneficiaries of the planned 1,200 community subprojects would be an estimated
80,000 poor rural families representing about 400,000 people or 15% of the population in rural
areas. Further, some 60% of total subproject resources would be concentrated in the 80
municipalities with lowest HDI-M, representing a rural population of about 1.1 million.


1.5 Original Components

The project had four components (PAD, Annex 2):




                                                   3

1.5.1    Component 1: Community Subprojects (US$36.0 million, 90% of total project cost)
financing community matching grants for about 1,200 small-scale, socio-economic infrastructure,
education, health, culture, productive, environmental and other investments designed to increase
HDI. The component covered all 216 municipalities (excluding only the State capital, São Luis)
to foster state-wide cross-sector integration, getting all municipalities to focus on HDI and
strengthening local and municipal institutional arrangements. However, project targeting
parameters focused 60% of total component cost in the 80 poorest municipalities, designated
Area A. An indicative budget envelope averaging US$270,000 per Area A municipality would be
available over the four-year execution period. The remaining 136 municipalities in Area B would
be allocated indicative budgets of US$79,000 over four years. The idea was that additional, non-
project resources would be leveraged under the local-level integration pursued by the CMDRSs.

1.5.2    Component 2: Institutional Development (US$2.0 million or 5% of total project cost)
financing technical assistance and training to increase the capacity of implementing agencies
including the CMDRS, community associations, State Management Unit for Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development (GEAGRO) and State Management Unit for Planning and
Budget (GEPLAN).

1.5.3    Component 3: Horizontal Integration (US$1.0 million, 2.5% of total project cost)
otherwise known as "State Governance and Capacity Building", financing technical assistance to
strengthen the results-based management capacity of the State Government to plan, integrate,
monitor and evaluate public policies and investments for poverty reduction, and to improve the
alignment of public expenditures with the State's development priorities.

1.5.4    Component 4: Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$1.0 million, 2.5% of total project cost) financing costs (excluding salaries) of project
administration and coordination, including supervision, monitoring and impact evaluation.


1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1    Project components were not revised.


1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1    Project Scale. Due to the marked appreciation of the Brazilian Real vs. the US Dollar in
the project period, during the MTR of 2008 the target for the number of subprojects financed was
reduced from 1,200 to 1,000.2

1.7.2    Targeting. In direct response to the policy direction of the new State Government which
took office in January 2007, PRODIM markedly intensified investments in three very poor
regions representing 54 municipalities, as opposed to the 80 Area 1 municipalities prioritized at
appraisal (see 2.2 and 3.5). Actions were focused more tightly on vulnerable populations
denominated "Special Groups" comprising Afro-Brazilian quilombola communities, indigenous
groups, women, young people and artisanal fishing communities located either within or outside
the focus areas.

1.7.3    Special Account. The Special Account was increased in October 2007 from US$2.0
million to US$3.0 million at the request of the State Technical Unit (NEPE). NEPE believed this


2 This change was made effective through the Operational Manual.



                                                        4

would accelerate disbursements since the availability of counterpart funding was greater and
more subprojects could be financed faster, the goal being to recuperate time lost in the first two
years.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


Preparation

2.1.1     Preparation was conducted in collaboration with state authorities and NEPE, which had
executed the previous project. However, due to the change of Government in January 2007, the
NEPE team which prepared the project in 2003-2005 was not the same NEPE team which ended
up implementing it in 2006-2008. Actual and potential beneficiary communities were aware
through information campaigns and word of mouth--facilitated by NEPE's regionalized
administrative structure--that a follow-up project was being prepared by the State and that it
would use the same decentralized, participatory mechanisms already established and functioning
well. Actions and strategies in the Indigenous Peoples' Participation Plan (IPPP ­ PAD, Annex
12) were defined with the participation of indigenous leaders from each of the groups targeted by
the project.3 This project aimed at promoting results-based management within an overall vision
of a modernized public sector in Maranhão, for which the State Secretary of Planning expressed
strong support.

Project Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.2     Project design adhered closely to the State Government's strategies to address rural
poverty and social exclusion, low indicators of health and education, environmental
sustainability, decentralization, and the integration of public policies and investments to achieve
greater impact on HDI and on poverty reduction. Project design combined the operational
modalities of the cost-effective and successful community-based approach of the previous project
with innovative results-based management features to ensure horizontal integration of policies
and to directly support improved HDIs of target municipalities. However, as discussed in more
detail below, implementation of the innovative horizontal integration component in a CDD
project proved to be more challenging than anticipated, given the institutional capacity
requirements of such an approach. In its comments to the draft ICR, the Borrower acknowledges
certain institutional weaknesses in the execution of the project, but notes that these were not
necessarily worse than in other Northeast states and are in any case being addressed by the new
State Government.

2.1.3     Objectives and Indicators. The direct link to improvements in HDIs in the Project
Development Objectives and the incorporation of a results-based management approach to
horizontal integration proved a tremendous challenge to the existing institutional capacity in
Maranhão, particularly within a four-year implementation period and significant turnover of staff
at NEPE following the change in Government in January 2007. In retrospect, the over-riding or
higher-level objective of helping the State reduce poverty by increasing HDI from 0.647 to 0.700
by the year 2007 was unrealistic in the space of one project, difficult to measure, and it exceeded
NEPE's technical and operational capacity.


3 The training took place over a three-month period and was designed in modules to permit, in the interval between
each module, the return of indigenous leaders to their villages to discuss the proposed strategies with the entire
community. NGOs specialized in indigenous affairs were also involved.



                                                            5

2.1.4    Although under the previous project NEPE had performed well, under this project it
encountered more difficulties than anticipated at appraisal. The traditional CDD project
objectives--community subproject investments and improved governance--were familiar to
NEPE from the previous project. One important reason why the previous project was successful
is that NEPE concentrated its efforts in communities located in more accessible regions of the
State. Under the new project, the relatively straightforward device of ensuring that associations
and CMDRSs understood the basic component parts of HDI and that investment demand and
financing be consistently aligned around this organizing principle was adopted without much
difficulty. The capacity problems were manifested more clearly with the innovative aspects of the
project. First, results-based management, even though modestly funded, was ranked ahead of the
more "traditional" subproject investment objective. This innovation responded largely to the
Bank's growing interest in this approach, which had some buy-in by the State Secretary of
Planning at the time, but was not the focus of NEPE's interest or experience. Moreover, the
project did not have a baseline or clear targets for monitoring performance of this objective.
Additionally, the objective of seeking cross-sector integration of development actions via
integrated municipal development plans and State-Municipal performance agreements grossly
under-estimated the complexities inherent in developing the plans, implementing them, and
measuring the outcomes/impacts.

2.1.5    Quality at entry was Moderately Unsatisfactory. Although the innovations introduced
were commendable, project design had substantive shortcomings. Project design unsuccessfully
attempted to satisfy two sets of competing objectives: (i) consolidation and expansion of the CDD
approach under the previous project and (ii) incorporation of results-based management and
horizontal integration. The inherent complexities of attempting to address both objectives caused
implementation difficulties. The measurability of PDO indicators was questionable in key cases,
e.g., the increase in state-wide and municipal HDI attributable directly to project technical
assistance and investments. Similarly, quantifying improved State capacity to achieve cross-
sector integration of public policies and investments and to effectively plan, monitor and evaluate
its PPA was a difficult challenge. While the simple quantification of state-municipal performance
agreements developed was straightforward, evaluating positive impact and development
effectiveness required a sophisticated M&E system with specialized human resource needs, in a
state with little/no evaluative experience or established procedures. The data collection strategy
(Annex 1) for key performance (outcome) indicators depended on a comprehensive project
impact evaluation program backed by GEPLAN following through on its own evaluation/tracking
of the State's HDI-related progress indicators. Projected outputs were somewhat disconnected
from the more weighty PDO objectives/indicators for which it should be noted, no targets were
established at appraisal. Project monitoring and evaluation requirements were more demanding
than the previous project even though (or perhaps because) no evaluation program/procedures had
been established.

2.1.6    Implementing Capacity and Organization. The project was an innovative test case for
leveraging greater scale and impact, more rapidly, through cross-sector integration, responding to
calls from the Bank and Brazilian authorities for projects with such features. Further, the
decentralized, participatory project Municipal Councils (CMDRSs) were seen as optimal vehicles
for bringing diverse rural poverty programs together under one roof for debate, information
sharing and decision-making by poor communities. However, over time it became clear not only
that Maranhão was not an appropriate state to test such innovations, but that results-based
management (particularly with inter-sectoral horizontal integration) requires a sophisticated M&E
system, considerable specialized implementation capacity and experience, and intensive Bank
supervision--none of which were adequate in this project.



                                                 6

2.1.7     Resource allocations for Areas A and B over the planned four years were very modest.
An indicative budget envelope averaging US$270,000 (or about US$67,500 per year) would be
available to each Area A municipality, while the remaining 136 municipalities comprising Area B
would be allocated some US$79,000 each (or less than US$20,000 per year), barely enough for a
few subprojects.4 The assumption was that additional non-project resources would be mobilized
through the planned integration function/activities of the CMDRSs but the organizational strength
and capacity of many of them was quite weak and they required training to prepare them to
launch integration activities. The real risk in regard to very low resource allocations per
municipality was that the CMDRSs and/or associations would lose interest and motivation,
becoming virtually moribund for lack of activity, and/or scale back subproject size to non-viable
levels to squeeze more investments for poor communities out of the limited funding. Both
materialized in practice, reflecting another project design limitation.

2.1.8     The environmental elements of the project were unfamiliar to NEPE and introduced a
new and challenging element to operate at different levels and scale. The project was to finance
environmental activities with positive impacts on quality of life and incomes and these would
include: (a) environmental community subprojects; (b) demonstration subprojects to test
environmentally appropriate technologies for productive activities. This involved building
awareness in CMDRSs enabling them to identify interested rural producers who would adopt and
implement the technologies, submitting a subproject proposal to finance them; and (c) regional
and territorial subprojects involving municipal consortia and focusing on environmental
sustainability at a regional level would be piloted and evaluated to see if scaling up was
warranted. Such a construct was beyond NEPE's coordination capacity and the State's supply of
technical assistance and public extension services.

2.1.9     Although NEPE was able to finance 4,200 subprojects in six years under the previous
project, greater attention should have been paid to NEPE's institutional capacity at appraisal--
especially in view of the project's innovations. In fact, the ICR for the previous project (which
closed in June 2004, Report No. 23075) drew attention to how the "scale and dispersion of rural
poverty, and poor transportation conditions represented a daunting organizational challenge for
NEPE." The ICR went on to note "NEPE's delayed processing of subproject proposals due to
overwhelming demand; limited access to remote areas in the rainy season; need for more
specialized technical personnel experienced in handling productive subprojects; and, heavy
bureaucratic requirements of the subproject cycle". Not surprisingly, similar factors affected
implementation of this project.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment

2.1.10 Government's expressed commitment was strong during preparation. State agencies and
the NEPE team generally collaborated closely with the Bank team and had an ambitious vision
for reducing rural poverty through more concentrated, integrated actions. The State's track record
of improving social indicators, innovative regionalization of state management, and active
attempts to move the state beyond traditional, patronage-based provision of services through
more responsive, systems-based service delivery boded well for project success. In 2003-2004,
government assumed that there would be sufficient time (before the 2006 elections) to launch and


4  Total cost estimated for community subprojects was US$35.5 million, including a 10% community contribution.
The estimated average for 1200 subprojects is thus US$29,600 per subproject implying that the poorest Area 1
municipalities would receive about 3-4 subprojects per year and the "less poor" Area 2 municipalities 1-2. This may
explain the small scale of many subprojects ultimately financed ­ the need the leverage as many as possible from
limited resources.



                                                         7

consolidate the new types of activities included in the project. A long delay in effectiveness, due
to unusually strong political factors, however, changed the conditions and context for initiating
many of the planned innovations. Eventually, the a new administration came to the State
Government and key project innovations faced a variety of new constraints, including lack of
priorities and staff turnover.

Risk Assessment

2.1.11 Quality at entry also suffered from an incomplete risk analysis. Although the analysis of
CDD-related issues was quite realistic, the risks inherent in the innovative aspects of the project
were grossly underestimated. Also, procurement was not explicitly mentioned as a risk. Specific
Bank procurement guidelines for CDD projects had not yet been developed at the time of
appraisal. Based on project targeting parameters, which included all 216 eligible municipalities,
project design allocated Area A poorest municipalities almost three times the resources of Area B
municipalities. A risk not foreseeable at appraisal was the appreciation of the Real versus US
Dollar and the reduction this would require in targeted subprojects, although in practice other
factors were more important in limiting the number of subprojects than the appreciation of the
Real.


2.2 Implementation

2.2.1. The project was designed at a time when both the Bank and the Borrower thought that the
integration of planning and programs both vertically and horizontally could achieve greater
poverty reduction impact in a shorter time, as reflected in improved HDIs. The project got off to a
slow start. Following Board approval in May 2004, strong political opposition for approving the
project developed at the Federal level, related to party-political tensions associated with
upcoming elections for Governor in late 2006. This delayed project effectiveness by 21 months.
Consequently, there was little activity for almost two years (mid-2004 to mid-2006), resulting in a
loss of continuity and erosion of capacity at NEPE and project municipal councils. The Bank
maintained frequent contact with the Federal Government and NEPE but could not materially
improve the situation. Breakthroughs were constantly expected by the State but did not eventuate.
Maranhão's extreme poverty and its excellent performance under the previous project staved off
serious consideration of simply dropping the project.

2.2.2    Even though annual budget allocations to the project and levels of state counterpart
funding after effectiveness were satisfactory, subproject processing by the new NEPE team
(which took over in January 2007) was exceedingly bureaucratic and this slowed disbursement
which did not pick up until the final year of the project (2008). Moreover, the project stalled in its
final months due to a Bank Procurement Post-Review in April/August 2008 uncovering
systematic procurement shortcomings for which the Borrower was unable to provide adequate
explanation. The Bank declared mis-procurement on December 11, 2008. The project closed on
December 31, 2008 (as planned), with an undisbursed balance of US$ 10.8 million.

2.2.3    This disruptive, troubled period meant the project had barely two years of
implementation and in that time financed only 626 community subprojects (about one-third of
community demand totaling 1,814 proposals) benefiting 40,800 families in 612 associations
located in 127 municipalities (59% of geographic coverage sought at appraisal). However, the
Borrower's comments to the draft ICR point out that it nevertheless achieved 50% of the project's
targets in just over two years of actual implementation (from effectiveness in February 2006 to
closing in December 2008), noting that this reflected strong commitment to the project. Of total



                                                  8

subprojects financed, productive investments reached 100% of the appraisal target, infrastructure
reached 37%, and social reached 30% of target. Environmental subprojects never took hold and
represented only about one percent of the total. Types of subprojects financed showed a certain
concentration with the most common being simplified water supply systems (alone, about 25%),
and manioc mills, sanitation systems, small-scale rice processing plants and fishing equipment (in
aggregate, 60%).

2.2.4    Targeting outcomes were complex and despite all efforts, somewhat skewed to Area B-
type municipalities with better HDI, revealing that weak organization and inadequate information
typical of very poor and vulnerable groups limit their access to CDD-type operations dependent
on organized demand. Even so, the Special Groups (quilombola communities, indigenous groups,
women, young people, and artisan fishing communities) secured the attention desired by the State
Government, receiving a larger number of subprojects than their representation in the rural
population. No territorial consortia of CMDRSs were established, the planned results-based
management activities did not proceed and integration activities, while quite well-established at
the local level in many CMDRSs, did not construct the sophisticated State-Municipal contractual
and organizational framework contemplated in the PAD (see Annex 2 for details).

2.2.5    Costs. The original disbursement plan shows US$16.0 million and US$10.6 million
allocated to Area A and B municipalities respectively for community subprojects. The final
outcome shows IBRD disbursements of US$7.7 million for Area A (48%) and US$7.6 million for
Area B (72%) leaving an undisbursed balance of about US$10.8 million at closing. Total cost of
subprojects at closing was US$23.07 million, including state counterpart and beneficiary
association contributions. Of this, 55% was for infrastructure, 38% for productive and 7% for
social investments. The highest amounts were applied to water supply systems, sanitation systems
and manioc mills, which also benefit the greatest number of families. The overall average cost of
subprojects was US$36,851. The average cost per family benefited was (US$565). The
distribution of resources among beneficiary regions saw Baixada Maranhense the largest
recipient with 25% of the total value applied to community subprojects. The highest average
value per subproject was found in Cerrado Maranhense (R$84,146 or US$36,270).

Main factors affecting project implementation

2.2.6      Delayed Effectiveness and launching of project activities. Project Effectiveness
occurred almost two years after Board approval (May 2004) due to political party issues which
tied it up in the Federal Internal Loans Committee and then the Senate. Following Effectiveness
in February 2006, project launching activities were further delayed by the following: (a) slow
activation of procedures to open the Special Account, in part due to the Bank's transfer of this
process from headquarters to Brasilia and the need to start again; (b) legal limitations imposed on
agreements with the community associations--including Federal authorities requiring that the
validity of all existing community associations be checked; the project needed a decree
exempting it from this requirement in order to commence operations; (c) Brazilian legal
requirement that all new contracting of community subprojects be suspended until after the
October 2006 elections; and (d) the common disruptions associated with the settling in of new
authorities (after January 2007).

2.2.7      Local level integration of programs. CMDRSs routinely included in their monthly
meetings, discussions about the complementary nature and integration of PRODIM with other




                                                9

public programs ­ federal, state and municipal.5 The most notable example was PRODIM's
consistency with the Federal electrification program for rural communities, Luz para Todos,
which complemented with essential services, other types of PRODIM investments including
productive, water supply and housing improvement. Other complementary programs integrated
through the CMDRSs included: the Federal, Bank-supported Crédito Fundiário project (Loan
7037-BR) via the financing of investment subprojects supporting land settlement and
consolidation, including productive activities; with the Federal Bolsa Familia Program; and with
a State program for distributing foodstuffs, primarily milk products, to women and poor fishing
communities.

2.2.8      Adherence to HDI criteria. This aspect of project design worked well, utilizing the
simple mechanism of ensuring that every community subproject proposal approved be consistent
with the three principal variables comprising HDIs.6 Communities and the CMDRSs were
informed of the meaning, mechanics and importance of the HDI and the priority-setting and
approval process monitored adherence.

2.2.9        Exchange rate. The Project was appraised using an exchange rate of USD1.00/R$2.35,
with sufficient resources for an estimated 1,200 subprojects. The MTR in early 2008 reduced the
expected total to 1,000 when the Real appreciated to USD1.00/R$1.61. However, in practice,
NEPE's slow processing of subprojects resulted in significant under-spending and slow
disbursement, which in the end had a more significant impact on the low number of subprojects
financed than the appreciation of the Real.

2.2.10       Institutional factors. Despite NEPE's experience with successful implementation of
the previous Bank-supported CDD project, its performance under this project was characterized
by excessive bureaucracy, slow subproject processing, and inadequate capacity to supervise and
delegate to its Regional Offices (RO). The ROs in turn, lacked adequate staff to monitor the
geographic spread of the project and the performance of individual beneficiary communities. In
its comments to the draft ICR, the Borrower has noted that the current State Government is taking
action to resolve these problems and will adopt all needed measures to improve NEPE's technical
and administrative capacity. In particular, they note efforts to increase the size of the technical
team, improve training, and enhance the team's capacity to supervise more distant regions of the
State where the majority of beneficiary communities are concentrated.

2.2.11       Institutional weakness is also evident from specific deficiencies mentioned by
independent auditors in the 2007 audit report,7 and in Financial Management Supervision reports
and Procurement Post-reviews. NEPE is described as having little control over bidding processes


5  Integration meant, in this case, the local CMDRSs acting as a clearing house for informing communities of program
availability, and eligibility and access criteria. Priority-setting and targeting had to be channeled through the CMDRS
participatory decision-making process in the same way as other PRODIM (Bank-supported) investments. For example,
the Luz para Todos program started in many municipalities to direct its energy investments to communities being
benefited by PRODIM with other compatible investments including those mentioned above.

6 Income growth, educational attainment and health/longevity.


7Independent auditors describe: delays in sending project FMRs; delayed release of resources held in association bank
accounts; delayed preparation of the required evaluation study on the structure, cost and efficiency of community
subprojects; Operational Manual not updated, or the corresponding guidance materials distributed to beneficiaries;
very slow efforts to regularize subprojects with problems; lack of training for beneficiary communities with productive
subprojects; and, issues related to lack of automatic emission of reports by the MIS. The Borrower has pointed out that
institutional weaknesses are being addressed.




                                                              10

and weak control over clearances for payments to contractors. The degree of centralization of
NEPE project coordination is evident in the 25-30 technicians in the field to cover 212
municipalities, and the 50 at NEPE headquarters in the capital. Subprojects were widely dispersed
within each municipality. Many communities comprised just a few families, and many were
isolated during the rainy season. NEPE lacked the manpower to visit each of the subprojects (a
minimum of three visits at critical stages was required) and perform a physical inspection every
time a request for payment was received, and thus relied on the decentralized State Agency for
Agro-livestock Research and Rural Extension (AGERPE) for that purpose. The Borrower's
Completion Report (NEPE 2009) states that while some 2,000 supervision visits were conducted,
virtually all occurred in the 80 Area A municipalities.

2.2.12       Institutional weakness was also evident at decentralized levels. For example, the Bank
procurement specialist's analysis of sample contracts in 2008 indicated, inter alia, a failure in
some regions of the project's participatory, decentralized mechanisms.8 Procurement was not
taking place at the community level, a fundamental breach of the project's central idea of
strengthening communities' abilities to manage investment subprojects. Many communities were
located in remote areas, and lacked the formal education and training needed to conduct
procurement, while their CMDRSs were weak and marginalized.9


2.2.13 Procurement. Project implementation also suffered from inadequate attention to
procurement processes. As noted in para. 2.4.5 the Bank's Procurement Post-Review (PPR) in
April and August 2008 revealed prima facie evidence that bidding quotations did not meet Bank
requirements. There was evidence of systematic misapplication of Bank procurement guidelines,
                                          10
and red flags of possible fraud. The Bank notified the State Governor and NEPE about these
problems and requested that further community subprojects not be approved until a corrective
Action Plan was agreed with the Bank. However, since the Borrower's response to the PPR's
findings provided no additional information to change the Bank's conclusions, the project closed
as scheduled on December 31, 2008, with a moderately unsatisfactory rating.

2.2.14       The Borrower Completion Report (NEPE 2009) is candid on institutional capacity
issues, citing the following:

 (a)      Size of technical teams. NEPE decided (in 2007) to maintain a minimum cohort in the
 capital and assign technical assistance to the AGERPEs via partnerships. However, the
 availability of technicians, extension workers and facilitators was insufficient and
 disproportional to the tasks demanded for good implementation and subproject oversight.



8 Procurement Post-review Supervision Mission Report, August 18-22, 2008.

9 The subproject type, its amount, the contractor and the construction site were decided without community
involvement. Some association presidents signed documents they had never seen to initiate work, and similarly some
associations were pressured to sign documents to release payments to contractors even when works were behind
schedule or not completed.



10The ICR for the RPAP (Report No. 30275, June 28, 2004) cites NEPE, in its Borrower Completion Report (2004),
calling for "greater effort to fortify the communities, strengthening their capacity to manage the subproject cycle, and
especially to administer project-funded goods and structures". The ICR then states "despite major efforts (under the
RPAP) to publicize the project and mobilize communities, NEPE believes that an even more intense capacity-building
program would enable weaker community associations in some areas to fend off political encroachment and to better
manage their investments".




                                                            11

 (b)    Distance. The communities which comprised the targeted clientele were generally
located in remote areas of the state, with difficult access even to the municipal center. Thus,
supervision obligations could not always be accomplished in their entirety.11
(c)     Municipal and local relationships. Administrative decentralization, delegation of
responsibility for public services to municipalities, universal rights and participation are
processes which remain incomplete and preliminary in many municipalities targeted by
PRODIM. Local political factions and disputes re-opened space for traditional clientilism,
causing PRODIM to have operational difficulties in controlling activities, especially in regard to
the financial management of resources.
(d)     Poverty levels. The low educational level of rural populations in Maranhão including the
leadership of community associations had objective repercussions for PRODIM. The ability to
read, write and compute/calculate are indispensable to effective management of subprojects
financed, especially productive, whose operation and maintenance require these skills for many
tasks including files and accounts and interaction with markets.

2.2.15 Mid-term Review (MTR). Given the considerable delays in getting the project started,
the Mid-Term Review was too little, too late. It should have taken place in mid-2007, rather than
in 2008, in order to allow sufficient time for implementing its recommendations (including
possibly a project restructuring with a longer implementation period). Although the 2008 MTR
provided a candid and analytical assessment of the project's physical performance, based in part
on interviews with beneficiaries, community leaders and local authorities and drawing on field
observations and data from the project's MIS, the MTR's recommendations (summarized below)
did not address some key project design weaknesses (e.g., horizontal component, weak M&E
system) and there was simply no time for their effective implementation. NEPE and the Bank
supervision team erroneously assumed that an extension of the project closing date would take
place in late 2008 permitting correction of diverse problems and this idea, combined with only
modest physical achievements evident at the time the MTR was originally planned, combined to
delay the MTR's execution. Weak supervision during the project's early stages (e.g., only one
Financial Management mission in 18 months, no procurement post-review prior until 2008) and
subsequent events, particularly the findings of the procurement post review of April/August 2008,
provided little justification for such an extension. An important lesson from this is that early
detection of project shortcomings is essential, particularly in projects that experience long delays
in declaring effectiveness, and show only modest physical gains, to allow the Borrower and the
Bank to agree on an effective plan of corrective measures--at least 18 months prior to the
original closing date. In this project, such a restructuring plan should have been agreed to in mid-
2007 at the latest.


2.2.16 Procurement. The MTR found overly-complex procurement procedures and lack of
understanding of procurement rules and processes by associations (MTR Aide Memoire, April
30, 2008).    NEPE was found not to be providing adequate supervision and guidance to
communities on problems to be avoided in procurement, and there was a lack of rigorous analysis
by NEPE of problematic subproject documentation in order to make corrections. The MTR
recommended that NEPE: (a) prepare procurement procedures designed to facilitate associations'
involvement, including model documents; (b) send technicians to the subprojects to review their
status; and, (c) expand the use of the MIS as a procurement control and supervision instrument.
NEPE was also tasked with updating the Operational Manual, which at the time of the MTR had
no specific section on procurement. NEPE's response to these recommendations was slow and


11 To an extent, previous projects had already covered the more accessible areas and the more intense focus of
PRODIM on the extreme poor and communities which had never participated, mandated operations in very remote
areas.



                                                     12

incomplete and was in any case overtaken by issues related to the imminent closing of the project
on December 31, 2008. Since procurement issues were first flagged only in April 2008, by then it
was too late to take meaningful corrective actions.

2.2.17 Productive Subprojects. The MTR found that productive subprojects were generally
very small-scale and low cost, producing outputs primarily to complement income and/or boost
food security. While valuable for mobilizing communities and interesting per se, their impact in
practice was modest and sustainability questionable. Several factors contributed to small scale:
the intense focus on the very poorest groups and to some extent, the influence on communities in
some areas of social movements/NGOs which tended to foster a culture of "small and local". A
fundamental re-orientation of the strategy for these subprojects was believed necessary. In what
could constitute a roadmap for future rural projects with productive investments, the MTR
mission advised NEPE to do the following:

(a)     Improve the criteria and rigor for analyzing productive subprojects including managerial
        capacity, and economic, financial and environmental sustainability;
(b)     Set user fees realistically, based on actual operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and
        numbers of beneficiaries;
(c)     Give priority to investments supporting actual family production and marketing, and to
        establishing user fees;
(d)     Desist from financing certain types of productive activities deemed unsustainable
        including due to scale issues;
(e)     Establish partnerships with the Brazilian Service for Support to Small Enterprises
        (SEBRAE) to better oversee/monitor productive subprojects, provide technical assistance
        for management, and promote links between producers and markets/buyers within and
        outside the State;
(f)     Focus the above efforts on products with genuine potential, e.g. honey, vegetables, crafts,
        cashew nut and fruit pulp;
(g)     Design reference models for subprojects in greater demand, with standard technical/other
        parameters to ensure quality and environmental preservation; and,
(h) Adopt a systematic training program in production technologies for beneficiaries.

2.2.18 Unfortunately, since the MTR took place only in 2008, it was too late for these
recommendations to be implemented. Nevertheless, in its comments to the draft ICR, the
Borrower has noted that they agree with the recommendations and intend to adopt them under
any future project under NEPE's responsibility.

2.2.19 Environment. The MTR noted that "bearing in mind institutional restrictions of the past
two years" implementation of the project's Environmental Management Plan was on track and
NEPE's in-house environmental professional was performing well on establishing routines and
processes. Educational materials were prepared, environmental monitoring was built into the
MIS, and partnership arrangements were starting up.           However, community demand for
environmental subprojects was weak and needed promotion via demonstration units and other
means, and no action had been taken to initiate multi-municipal consortia or territorial activities
supporting environmental management. The Bank team presented NEPE with a detailed set of
recommendations but as with other aspects of the MTR, the short time available prevented
adequate implementation of the recommendations.

2.2.20 Municipal Councils (CMDRS). The MTR found that Municipal Councils, especially
outside the area of concentration (Area A), needed motivation, training, and appeared un-
motivated and inactive. This may have been a function of NEPE's slow, bureaucratic


                                                13

implementation combined with small amounts of funding allocated (indicatively) to
municipalities in Area B. Even so, the MTR study found that some Area B municipalities
received far more subprojects and funding than originally contemplated. NEPE was advised to
initiate a program of training and reorganization of CMDRSs with difficulties, especially those
outside Area A.

2.2.21 Targeting. NEPE was advised to continue its focus on 54 priority municipalities and on
the "Special Groups", ensuring that their subproject demands, like all others, were submitted to
the CMDRSs for debate and prioritization, and noting that their special status did not confer
exemption from the project's participatory processes and mechanisms. The MTR study (NEPE
2008) analyzes in detail the targeting findings and results, summarized in 3.5.4 and Annex 2 of
the ICR.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1    The proposed monitoring and impact evaluation framework was advanced and ambitious
in its vision, the plan being to integrate aspects of project M&E activities into statewide
information systems to facilitate monitoring by GEPLAN of its PPA, and impact assessment of
the project and broader State development efforts. The Project MIS database included community
profiles to aid in evaluating project impact; the Institutional Development Component would be
monitored by tracking training events and the achievement of annual operating plans (POA); and
the Horizontal Integration Component would be monitored by GEPLAN via indicators linking
both project and non-project expenditures to reduction in poverty in rural areas and statewide,
measured by improved HDI. The pre-existing MIS was to be improved to permit regional offices
to enter data and monitor on-line the real-time flow of subprojects.

2.3.2    Under the impact evaluation framework specifically, studies would include: annual
physical performance reviews to assess quality, sustainability, and including reviews of
community-based procurement; mid-term evaluation including beneficiary consultation on
performance and impact; assessment of activities under the Horizontal Integration component on
achieving cross-sector integration of public policies and investments to reduce poverty; rigorous
and comprehensive evaluation of the project's impact on raising HDI. The latter would use
repeater surveys of beneficiaries and non-beneficiary control groups. An execution timetable was
agreed during preparation.

2.3.3    Monitoring: The M&E system envisaged at appraisal fell short of expectations. The MIS
operated fairly efficiently but did not reach the levels envisaged in the PAD. The MIS produced
reports on demand, used to monitor financial aspects, subproject implementation and other
operational matters. However, the 2008 Financial Management Supervision noted that the most
frequent client of the system appeared to be Bank supervision missions. It became evident that
NEPE managers were not making the best use of the system and appeared to believe the MIS was
developed primarily to satisfy Bank information requirements. From a financial management
perspective, the MIS was cause for concern because it was manually fed with information that
was registered separately in SIAFEM (the State Government's budgetary and accounting system,
in which the project was a cost center), creating the risk that not all transactions were being
captured by the MIS and resulting in the project financial manager having to maintain a parallel
spreadsheet where all financial transactions were registered.

2.3.4    Evaluation: The planned evaluation program--a baseline study (since a baseline had
never been done) and any follow-up feasible in the available time--made little progress.
Following protracted negotiation with the Bank on methodology, terms of reference and


                                                 14

procurement, and right when bidding was about to occur, the project closed due to mis-
procurement. However, the more fundamental reason is that NEPE was never committed to
evaluation and the Bank was reluctant to acknowledge this and respond more aggressively. NEPE
was repeatedly pressed to make progress but, on a different level, much greater effort was needed
to inculcate the value of M&E as a planning and policy tool. Meanwhile, the planned link
between M&E and HDI performance (the Horizontal Integration activities) turned out to be more
complex than anticipated during appraisal. The new State Government de-emphasized the HDI
and the Horizontal Integration Component, which essentially languished, to focus more on
specific target areas/regions and the most vulnerable groups. In regard to the planned case studies
(Partial Report), at the time field data collection was starting many subprojects were just starting
operations and thus the team collected data on just four (Annex 5).


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


2.4.1    Safeguards. The project triggered Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Indigenous
Peoples (OD 4.20). It was classified as Category B and had an Environmental Management Plan
prepared in collaboration inter alia, with the State Management Unit for Environment and Natural
Resources (GEMA). It also had an Indigenous Peoples Participation Plan (IPPP), available to the
public and on NEPE's website. Compliance with applicable safeguards provisions was generally
satisfactory but due to the restricted institutional context of the first two years, environment-
related systems and activities were still evolving at closing and needed more time to consolidate.


2.4.2    All subproject proposals had to include a roadmap on how potential environmental
impacts would be avoided or mitigated. NEPE's in-house environmental specialist had already
installed routine procedures for screening and licensing, prepared educational and informational
materials, and established initial, informal partnerships with environmental agencies, both State
and Federal. Demand for environmental subprojects per se was still nascent at closing, possibly
because their immediate relevance/payoff to social welfare and/or income generation was not
evident to poor communities and much more information dissemination, training and promotion
was needed. The MTR mission presented NEPE with a detailed assessment and recommendations
for further improving project environmental management but time did not permit further
substantive actions. The project was closely targeted to the most socially vulnerable groups and
indigenous peoples participated under the "Special Groups" rubric (see 3.5.3 and Annex 2).


2.4.3    Financial Management. There were two Financial Management Supervision missions
(November 2006 and April 2008), both of which provided an FM rating of Satisfactory. The
April 2008 analysis found that the project accounting, FM reporting and project management
information system and internal controls were adequate and reliable to manage and monitor
project implementation. A review of sampled SOEs showed that the controls and procedures used
to prepare them were satisfactory. The mission made several observations. First, while NEPE
was producing reports on demand (project implementation, physical and operational aspects), it
                                                                                                                12
was not making the best use of its MIS and had not internalized its use for own operations.
Second, the mission alerted NEPE that funds being held in blocked accounts in the Bank of Brazil
in the name of community associations with subprojects still under implementation would need to
be returned to the Special Account by closing if respective subprojects were not completed.
Third, while the MIS was a good financial management tool it was still a system manually fed



12 NEPE was advised to make much better use of its own MIS to review the physical execution of the project, conduct
ageing analysis of subprojects under implementation, and assess average elapsed time between signing of the
agreement between NEPE and beneficiary associations and the transfer of funds to them.



                                                      15

with information registered separately in the SIAFEM, running the risk that not all transactions
were being captured by the MIS and requiring that the two systems be reconciled.


2.4.4    Audit. Independent auditors in their 2007 audit report gave an Unqualified opinion on the
project's financial statements (covering sources and uses of funds, investments by expenditure
category, statements of expenditure (SOE), the Special Account, and complementary financial
information). In the Management Letter, auditors expressed the opinion that the system of
internal controls maintained by NEPE was satisfactory to manage and monitor the project, but
detected some internal control issues requiring NEPE's follow-up. NEPE has since rectified the
issues raised.


2.4.5    Procurement. The Bank Procurement Post-Review (PPR) in April 2008 reviewed a
sample of 15 contracts for goods and works under Component 1, Community Subprojects,
utilizing shopping procedures. This review raised questions prompting a second Post-review in
August 2008, wider in scope and covering a total of 100 contracts for 77 community subprojects
(100% of the subprojects financed in 2007). This revealed prima facie evidence that quotations
presented for Bank review were invalid and did not meet the requirements of agreed shopping
procedures as provided by Bank Procurement Guidelines. There was evidence of systematic
misapplication of Bank procurement guidelines, and red flags of possible fraud. However,
concurrent Bank missions on Financial Management and regular field supervision at the time
noted that (i) these procurement irregularities were not related to financial management practices,
and (ii) the investment subprojects identified in April 2008 physically had been completed to the
satisfaction of the beneficiaries. In other words, the problems identified were related specifically
to the misapplication of procurement procedures. As noted earlier, the Bank notified the
Borrower about these problems and requested that further community subprojects not be
approved until a corrective Action Plan was agreed with the Bank. The Borrower's response to
the PPR's findings provided no additional information to change the Bank's conclusions.
Consequently, the Bank declared mis-procurement on December 11, 2008 and the project closed
on December 31, 2008. The Borrower was asked to reimburse the Bank some US$1.091
         13
million. On June 22, the Borrower notified the Bank that it was acquiring the corresponding
foreign exchange in order to refund the Bank the amount declared ineligible, with an expected
deposit by June 30, 2009.


2.4.6 The type of problem found in Maranhão (systematic misapplication of Bank procurement
guidelines and confusion about how Brazilian Law 8666 on procurement must be applied under
the project) has not been identified in the other CDD projects under implementation in Northeast
Brazil. Nevertheless, one important lesson from this experience is that the application of Bank-
approved procurement procedures for CDD projects requires considerable initial and periodic
training of project implementation agencies which, in turn, need to transmit this training to
beneficiary community associations. In the particular case of Brazil, this requires more pro-active
engagement on the part of the Bank to periodically clarify to implementing agencies when and
how Bank-approved procedures, as specified in the loan agreement and Operational Manual,
should be used by communities, and how these may or may not relate to Brazilian Law 8666 on
procurement.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


13  Given the State Government's interest in avoiding similar situations in the future, the Bank recommended
preparation of an action plan to strengthen internal controls to mitigate the potential risk of similar problems
reoccurring by introducing specific measures to deter fraud and corruption. As the project closed in December 2008,
such Plan was never completed or agreed to with the Bank.



                                                         16

2.5.1   Transition arrangements to regular operations in the context of a CDD project mean
execution of a subproject, its formal release to the community association ­ which (with some
exceptions) legally and technically owns the investment ­ and its becoming operational under
pre-established rules and procedures for this phase.

2.5.2   Due to the absence of evaluation and final reporting, the information available on actual
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) practices in this project is limited. Project supervision and
the MTR noted that O&M of water supply systems was routine, including community members
paying a small monthly fee for water use. However, information on the O&M of project-financed
productive facilities and other types is not available. In the case of electric power investments,
O&M is handled by the local power agency/concession firm. What is certain is that appropriate
O&M procedures were a mandatory requirement in subproject proposals and a criterion for
approval.

2.5.3   The institutional sustainability of NEPE is unclear in the absence of this project,
especially as NEPE has traditionally also coordinated the state's operations under the Bank-
supported Crédito Fundiário operation (Loan 7037-BR) which also closed on December 31,
2008. Nevertheless, in its comments to the draft ICR, the Borrower has noted that NEPE's
continuity is not only assured, but that the current State Government administration is taking the
following specific corrective measures to strengthen NEPE's operational capacity: (i) nominating
a new NEPE Superintendent with strong technical and administrative background, (ii) linking
NEPE with significant financial and administrative autonomy to the recently-created Secretariat
for Agrarian Development, (iii) strengthening financial and procedural controls, (iv) recruiting
new technical staff, and (v) ensuring sufficient budgetary allocations to cover NEPE's operational
costs.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1   Although the project's overall outcome was unsatisfactory, its objectives remain relevant
and are consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, 2007-2011), explicitly via the
challenge of reducing endemic poverty in the Northeast region through economic inclusion which
strengthens community-level productive activities and their integration into the economy. The
Bank's core approach, as outlined in the CPS, is to identify demands from major firms including
supermarket chains, and then to specify productive arrangements enabling communities to
produce the required products at scale, with quality and reliability assurances. This is especially
relevant for Maranhão, where demonstrated demand for productive investments was very strong
and where the MTR recommended a slate of measures on feasibility, scale, technical assistance
and markets designed to increase the commercial potential of project investments. As noted
elsewhere, NEPE's follow-up cannot be assessed.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1   The achievement of project development objectives was severely hampered by late
effectiveness and launching of project activities, and by serious institutional weaknesses which
slowed project implementation and foiled the initiation of certain project activities. Moreover, as
noted earlier, the Mid Term Review should have taken place in mid-2007 rather than mid-2008,
as this would have allowed agreement with the Borrower on a restructuring plan (with possibly an



                                                 17

extension of the project's implementation period) to better align project resources and activities in
order to achieve the (possibly revised) PDOs and related outcome indicators. A 2007 MTR may
have also been able to detect the procurement problems and take corrective actions earlier.

Objective 1:    Strengthening the results-based management capacity at the State level for
planning, cross-sector integration, monitoring and evaluation of public policies and investments
under its Multi-year Development Plan (PPA, 2004-2007).


This objective was clearly not achieved. The component supporting this objective was explored
only tentatively after effectiveness, deferred until the new administration took office in January
2007, and then languished until project closing for lack of interest and priority under the new
State Government.


Objective 2: Supporting cross-sector integration of development actions at the municipal and
local levels through the design and implementation of integrated municipal development plans
and the introduction of State-Municipal Performance Agreements.


This objective was partially achieved at a decentralized level, but not through the design or
implementation of integrated municipal development plans, or State-Municipal Performance
Agreements. The Bank urged NEPE to promote direct discussions with municipal authorities to
identify areas of complementarity, and to transmit this information back to the CMDRSs to help
them formulate the Integrated Community Development Plans (known as PIDs) envisaged at
appraisal. But, as with the results-based management features of project design mentioned above,
both the State-Municipal Performance Agreements (SMPA) and the PIDs lacked Borrower
commitment. Actual support for cross-sector integration was primarily through training of the
CMDRSs and associations in understanding what cross-sector integration entailed, and how to
render it operational at the local level, leveraging parallel, complementary resources for
community needs through the participatory decision-making machinery of these Councils.


Objective 3: Financing demand-driven community investments for income generation, health and
sanitation, education, culture, environmental management and others, impacting on HDI and
environmental sustainability.


This objective was partially achieved at a smaller scale than that contemplated at appraisal. As
described in Annex 2, the project financed 626 subprojects selected, prioritized and approved
based on their consistency with the key variables comprising HDI. The project demonstrated the
relative ease with which such adherence was obtained under participatory CDD conditions. About
49% of all investments supported income generation, 36% supported education and culture, and
14% supported health and sanitation. About one percent of all subprojects financed fell into the
environmental management category. However, impact on HDI and environmental sustainability
was not measured.


Objective 4:    Strengthening municipal governance through the participation of community
associations and municipal councils (CMDRS) in decisions directly related to improvements in
the living conditions of the rural poor, and through capacity-building focused on integration of
environmental sustainability issues in the decision-making process.


The extent to which the project strengthened municipal governance through the participation of
community associations and the CMDRSs in joint decision-making was not formally evaluated.
Further, the identification of systematic misapplication of procurement guidelines suggests that



                                                18

participatory decision-making processes in some areas were not functioning as expected, with
certain project beneficiary communities vulnerable to manipulation and to being side-lined from
the required selection, priority-setting, approval and implementation process. The extent to which
capacity-building resulted in environmental sustainability being integrated in decision-making
processes is also not known. The MTR found that the disruptions of the project's first two years
meant that the Environmental Management Plan was only just starting to be implemented at that
time. The MTR found NEPE's overall environmental performance under its safeguards
responsibilities was satisfactory. The mission presented NEPE with a detailed environmental
analysis intended to further improve its environmental management, and to promote community
awareness of environmental issues and demand for environmental subprojects. The project closed
before the degree of follow-up by NEPE could be assessed.


3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1     One of the consequences of the erroneous assumption by the NEPE and Bank teams that
the project closing date would be extended beyond December 2008 is that a comprehensive
impact evaluation of the project was not carried out.14 Therefore, no calculations of efficiency of
community subprojects were conducted.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

3.4.1     While the project was and remains highly relevant to defined socio-economic deficits in
rural Maranhão, the unsatisfactory rating of overall outcome is based on: (i) the inability of the
project's monitoring and evaluation system to measure a baseline or progress in the achievement
of project performance indicators or to obtain meaningful estimates of efficiency; and (ii)
physical results by project closing were well below what was originally planned.




3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


3.5.1     Poverty Impact. The project's short implementation period and the lack of formal
evaluation limit conclusions about poverty impact. While the project's approval process was
careful to ensure that community investments were consistent with the main pillars of HDI,
tracking a direct link between the project and HDI (only measured every 10 years) even under
optimal conditions would be a complex task. It is known that productive subprojects with income
potential were an unexpectedly high proportion of the total and generally well-implemented, but
the MTR noted that, with some exceptions, these subprojects were mostly very small-scale



14Again, it merits reiteration that the first stage of such evaluation was to be a baseline and thus the project was in
practice, several years away from conducting an impact evaluation per se.




                                                           19

ventures, lacking adequate technical assistance and with questionable sustainability in some
cases.


3.5.2    Gender Aspects. Women were included as a vulnerable class of beneficiary within the
"Special Groups" targeted by the new state administration. Limited information available shows
that in the case of associations of women traditionally occupied in shelling coconut, the project
financed productive subprojects, mainly manioc mills (26.5% of total) and rustic production of
poultry (galinha caipira de corte, 17.6%). Some 23.5% of investments for women were in
household sanitation facilities. Data on women in leadership roles shows 26% of all community
associations had a female president, 85% a female secretary, and 15% a female treasurer. With
the    exception     of   fishermen's   associations,     100%     of    associations  had    female
membership/participation. Female leadership of the CMDRSs is not known. The impacts on
women of specific investments are largely indicative. Field visits by the MTR mission reported
women testifying to reductions of up to 100% in infant mortality from diarrheal infections due to
PRODIM investments in clean water supply and sanitation systems. Such results were compared
favorably by the MTR mission to neighboring communities which had not yet participated.


3.5.3    Social Development. Studies in other participating Northeast states have demonstrated
the extent to which the participatory methodology and subproject cycle provide opportunities for
community growth, leadership formation, and greater awareness and self-esteem. On this
foundation, communities can leverage their experiences and knowledge to secure additional
benefits from other programs and promote their interests in practical ways following completion
of their subproject. Thus, it is likely that a proportion of PRODIM beneficiaries would
demonstrate similar characteristics, but this was not formally verified.


3.5.4    Targeting. In 2007, the new State Government proposed further tightening of project
targeting in two ways: (a) geographic, with action concentrated in just 54 municipalities in three
Regions (Baixada Maranhenses, Lagos Maranhenses, and Alto Turi); and (b) concentrated
actions for the most vulnerable "Special Groups", e.g., Afro-Brazilian and Quilombola
communities, indigenous groups, women, artisanal fishing communities and youth. The
justification was that these areas contained significant pockets of poverty and a majority of the
state's quilombola and fishing groups, and that they were relatively close to the capital thereby
permitting close oversight of project actions in the initial period of the new administration.


3.5.5    This tighter focus did not alter established operational procedures, but was initiated and
executed rapidly, with mixed results meriting further study. Some 127 municipalities or 59% of
the eligible total, benefited from subproject investments. In practice, however, 210 or 37% of all
investments were focused in just 17 municipalities which were not necessarily the most deserving
on the basis of HDI-M. In practice, investment mostly concentrated on municipalities within Area
B. The same pattern is observed regarding subproject value. Municipalities which received a
higher number of investments also showed the greater values. Even in Area B, 48% of
subprojects and values were concentrated in three regions. Comparison of two periods shows the
impact of the new administration's strategy. Whereas in the period from February to December
2006 the three priority regions received 36% of subprojects financed in that period, from January
2007 to June 2008 the same three regions received an "avalanche" of financing amounting to
58% of all subprojects financed in the period.


3.5.6    Special Groups. The number of subprojects financed for each Special Group was
proportionally higher than its representation in the PRODIM target population. Defined,
vulnerable groups representing some 14,000 families (about 80,000 persons) received a total 194



                                                 20

subprojects, 31% of the total financed to end-December 2008 and benefiting 190 associations,
equivalent to 31% of all associations benefited. Indigenous groups received mainly productive
investments of which manioc mills were about 57%. For quilombola associations, investments
were more diverse including infrastructure and productive. Sanitation (water supply and septic)
was 38%, while processing of primary products (fruits, sugar-cane, manioc and rice) represented
40%. Women's associations benefited primarily from productive investments such as manioc
mills and rustic poultry production, but sanitation was about 25% of the total. For associations of
young people, 90% of investments were in education, especially agricultural technology. Finally,
for artisanal fishing communities, among the poorest project beneficiaries, fishing-related
equipment, chilling facilities for fish storage, and fish farming technologies were about 55% of
the total. Sanitation and production diversification were also prominent.

Table 3.5.1: Project Attention to Special Groups
                                                                                         Total
          Item          Women        Indigenous    Quilombola      Youth    Fishing     Special
                                                                            Groups      Groups
 Total subprojects         34            40             72          23         25         194
 - Infrastructure           9            2              37          10          7          65
 - Productive              22            37             35           5         18         117
 - Social                   3            1              0            8          0          12
 % total Financing       5.43%         6.39%          11.5%       3.67%     3.99%       30.99%
 Entities Benefited        34            39             69          23         25         190
 No. Assn Members        28,791        1,345          2,479        2,280     1,141      36,036
 Families Benefited       2,574        1,977          3,679        2,334     3,449      14,013
 Aver. Families/SP         76            49             51          101       138          72
 Persons Benefited       25,085        9,885         18,250       11,670    21,540      86,430
 Aver. Benefics/SP        738           247            253          507       862         446


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.7    The overall impact of the large amount of training financed by the project and its effect
on longer-term capacity and sustainability are not known. The project financed 114 courses and
information sessions for community associations in many aspects of the project itself and
subproject investments. Well over 1,000 leaders from the "Special Groups" were included.
Similarly, some 368 events benefited the CMDRSs, covering community mobilization, council
management, participation and sustainability and project operations. Training for both groups
reached some 24,800 individuals. Coordinating all of this required that about 100 NEPE staff also
be trained in many aspects of project management and operations. The MTR study noted that
rural extension services and practical training were weak aspects of the project, putting at risk
communities' ability to utilize and achieve concrete gains from their physical investments. About
12% of all subprojects received technical assistance.

3.5.8    The Borrower Completion Report (BCR, NEPE 2009), the Procurement Post-review of
August 2008 and the Financial Management Supervision of April 2008 all comment substantively
on NEPE's institutional capacity and its implications for/impact on the project are discussed in
Section 2.2 and elsewhere.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)




                                                 21

3.5.9    The presumption that the project closing date would be extended beyond 2008 distorted
the project implementation cycle by allowing a considerable number of subproject proposals to
enter the pipeline, get approved, and then end up without financing.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1    No formal beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was conducted. Annex 5
summarizes the results of small case studies presented at the time of the MTR, which looked at
the evolution and outcomes of four subprojects. Communities and local leaders were canvassed
by the MTR study team for their views on the project/subproject and main findings were as
follows (see also Annex 5):

(a) Water Distribution Network: Designed to conform to the HDI criterion of "support to health
and sanitation", clean water piped directly to households had almost immediate impacts on family
health and living conditions by: reducing the incidence of water-related parasitic/other infections;
reducing/removing the need for women and girls to heavy carry loads of water over distance
every day; allowing younger people normally involved in water collection more time for study
and leisure; and, superior water quality from deeper sources not requiring costly purification and
filtration.

(b) Household Sanitation Facilities: These subprojects were designed to fit the HDI criterion of
"support to health and sanitation". Even though only 56 families benefited directly, many
community members testified to the MTR research group on the health benefits for the entire
community of 250 families due to greatly-reduced environmental pollution.

(c) Rustic Poultry Demonstration Unit: Designed to fit the HDO criterion of "income generation
support", this subproject demonstrated several of the classic difficulties common to small-scale
productive investments in CDD projects, as well as the effects of inadequate feasibility
assessment. The association had difficulty computing its costs and reconciling its expenditures
and receivables but it was clear that expenditures exceeded income. Problems defined by the case
study included: insufficient training and supervision in basic accounting, management, marketing,
and sanitation and nutrition issues; dependence on commercial rations due to inadequate initial
assessment of ambient conditions for rustic feeding; lack of local agricultural products and agro-
climatic conditions to guarantee local-origin feed for 2,000 chickens per year; the picketed-off
area intended for roaming of birds was unsuitable for growing grass; and, the 90-day period
required for sale/slaughter of birds was double that of commercial facilities, making the enterprise
uncompetitive. The subproject increased food supply but not family incomes. It also increased
employment, but unremunerated. The core lesson was that to produce rustic poultry (galinha
caipira) in commercial quantity/quality requires precise knowledge of production and marketing,
as with the "regular" product.

(d) Production of Manioc Starch: This subproject was designed to fit the HDI criterion of
"income generation support". Findings indicate that manioc gum is a viable enterprise for the
beneficiary association but the project actually financed equipment for production of manioc
starch. Association members explained that they had no knowledge or tradition of producing
starch, raising questions about the original feasibility work. However, taking into account the
activities of only the 19 association members, expenses totaled R$56,000 and annual
returns/income about R$134,600 for the gum. Monthly net returns were R$6,550 giving each
member an income of about R$345/month. The association itself made about R$13,000/year or
R$1,090/month, permitting payment of its O&M costs. This is seen as modest but compared to



                                                22

their traditional operation, these results are very positive for the community, especially in the
functionality and efficiency of the process, translating into more/better work, greater hygiene and
final quality of the gum, which has potential for insertion in wider, more demanding markets.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

4.1      Sustainability. The sustainability of project outputs and outcomes appears fragile and
variable, justifying a rating of substantial for risk to development outcome. PRODIM closed with
barely two years of effective implementation, in an extremely poor state with capacity limitations
at several levels, as evidenced, inter alia, by the procurement events, and with no State plan to
consolidate gains. The MTR study states that rural extension services and practical training were
weak aspects of the project, putting at risk communities' ability to utilize and achieve concrete
gains from their physical investments. The project team's contact with NEPE has been sporadic
since closing and the ICR team's ability to obtain additional information, including on aspects of
sustainability, limited.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1    Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The
Bank project team comprised appropriate specialists for all design aspects, and worked closely
with NEPE, GEAGRO and GEPLAN. However, project design unsuccessfully attempted to
satisfy two sets of competing objectives: (i) consolidation and expansion of the successful results
of the CDD approach under a previous project and (ii) incorporation of innovative features
(results-based management and horizontal integration) in response to institutional demands, some
partly promoted by the Bank itself. The inherent complexities resulting from attempts to address
both objectives, even if not fully appreciated at the time, resulted in a project design that proved
difficult to implement as conceived. Extensive Bank experience of projects dealing with both
types of approaches should have suggested that putting them under the same operation was
unlikely to be successful, particularly in a State with known capacity constraints.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.2    There were seven Bank implementation progress missions including a well-staffed MTR
over the 34 month period and task management was experienced and stable throughout. About 41
staff weeks were expended on supervision, taking into account late effectiveness, slow start-up
and short implementation.15 Missions were regular, covered key issues and were complemented
by two Financial Management and one Procurement Post-Review missions. The Bank's analysis
of and communication on NEPE's audit performance was well-conducted, as was the Bank's
follow-up of corrective actions required from NEPE. However, Bank supervision had some
important shortcoming. Supervision ratings were too generous up to 2007. Project M&E was
rated satisfactory despite NEPE taking three years to reach the baseline contracting stage (at


15The PAD did not estimate staff weeks, but called for biannual supervision.




                                                         23

which point the project closed), and the Horizontal Integration Component was also rated
satisfactory through to closing despite having been (informally) dropped. Moreover, the MTR
should have taken place in mid-2007 instead of mid-2008. The Bank team's presumption that the
project closing date would be extended beyond December 2008 distorted the perception of time
needed to implement the recommendations of the MTR.

5.1.3    Bank supervision would also have benefited from the regular inclusion of: (a) an
agricultural engineer and/or agri-business specialist given the high proportion of productive
subprojects; (b) an environmental specialist to work closely with NEPE's in-house
environmentalist to promote more aggressive implementation of the project's innovative
environmental protection and conservation features; (c) a social specialist to help inject greater
dynamism, focus and organization into reaching and mobilizing beneficiary communities; and (d)
an M&E specialist to work closely with NEPE and GEPLAN to launch the innovative features of
the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.4    The Bank's overall performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. During preparation,
the Bank could have done a better job of ensuring quality of design, taking into account lessons
learned from the previous project in Maranhão and the other CDD projects in NE Brazil which
clearly pointed out the institutional capacity requirements for successful implementation.
Inclusion of complex, albeit innovative, features in response to non-operational institutional
demands (including Bank internal demands) reduced the quality of project design and placed
unnecessary operational burdens on NEPE and municipal councils. Similarly, the Bank could
have performed better during implementation by assessing project performance more realistically,
bringing in more specialized team members, and reacting earlier to identified problems.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.1    The State Government which prepared the project (2003-2005) was genuinely committed
to it but evidence suggests that innovative aspects of project design, while attractive to involved
authorities for their potential to modernize public sector planning, programs and performance
in/for the rural sector, were not well-understood at the technical and operational levels, i.e., by
NEPE. The new State Government responsible for project execution (2007­2008) understood the
importance of tight poverty targeting and pragmatically focused project resources on the absolute
poorest and most vulnerable. While Government's annual budgetary allocations to the project
were satisfactory (see 5.2.2) it did not support results-based management, or the State/Municipal
Performance Agreements and PIDs, and both of these design features languished for lack of
commitment.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.2    NEPE was generally staffed with competent, experienced professionals with many years
of experience coordinating the Bank-supported rural poverty and market-based land reform
projects. Important aspects of the project such as the alignment of investments with HDI, large
number of productive subprojects, and successful local level integration of the project with other



                                                 24

federal, state and municipal programs through the CMDRSs, were strong achievements which
additional implementation time might have consolidated, improved and expanded. NEPE also
oversaw an MTR study of good quality, but had difficulties advancing its evaluation agenda and
did not appear to appreciate the value and utility of its own well-established MIS.

5.2.3     NEPE's failings and vulnerability lay in its overly-bureaucratic subproject processing,
inadequate grasp of some project design elements which went beyond its traditional areas of
expertise, as well as its inadequate field pro-activity and supervisory capacity. The staffing and
logistical capacity of the AGERPEs was incompatible with their extensive list of field
responsibilities over large geographic areas,16 and NEPE's efforts to work and communicate with
this network were deficient. These factors acted as a continuous brake on the project's pace and
performance and may have left the project vulnerable to manipulation. While annual budget
allocations to the project were regular and adequate, NEPE's procedural and technical constraints
reduced the project's absorptive capacity resulting in very slow disbursement, protracted
subproject implementation periods often exceeding the established 210 day limit,17 excess
demand relative to processing capacity, and far fewer subprojects financed than planned at
appraisal.18

5.2.4     NEPE understood the critical importance of moving poor communities into productive,
income generating activities but lacked the technical resources/expertise to ensure adequate,
realistic feasibility analysis and follow-up. The project achieved 100% of its target in this
category of investment but MTR and other evidence suggests that a considerable number of such
subprojects have little or no market potential and are primarily for local/domestic consumption.
Finally, as detailed elsewhere in this report, NEPE's response to the Bank's findings on
procurement performance raised important questions which remain unresolved.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.2.5     Uneven state commitment to certain activities intrinsic to project design, and institutional
capacity issues, were evident from effectiveness through closing. The inadequate response from
the State/NEPE to the Bank's request for explanation of the findings of its procurement analysis,
and declaration of mis-procurement cloud the project's positive achievements because they
undermine confidence in the integrity of the process in that state. However, the rating of
Moderately Unsatisfactory allows space to acknowledge the project's actual achievements.


6. Lessons Learned


16  The MTR study refers to the AGERPEs each having "at least one" technician.

17   On the issue of processing delays, the BCR (NEPE 2009) argues that NEPE's efficiency was in fact notable and
that an analysis of MIS data shows that the main obstacles incurring a longer period of analysis happened when
proposals had to be returned to associations for additional information or reformulation. NEPE asserts that 60% of all
processes analyzed were completed in periods of less than one month. (See BCR pp. 9-10).

18  The FM Supervision report of April 2008 describes substantial amounts of project funds sitting in blocked project
accounts in the Bank of Brazil in the name of project beneficiaries (the full subproject amount is transferred to an
association's bank account at the time of subproject approval/signature) awaiting documentary evidence (e.g., SOE) for
their release.



                                                          25

6.1      The following lessons have emerged from this experience:

    ·    A decentralized, rural CDD project in a very poor state with issues of institutional
capacity at all levels and geographic dispersion may not be the best vehicle for introducing
results-based management and similarly challenging activities involving complex vertical and
horizontal linkages. While the Northeast CDD projects have, since inception, been vehicles for
the successful piloting and scaling up of innovation, not all participating states have equal
capacity to host innovation successfully. Innovation also needs consistent commitment and full
understanding and buy-in of all stakeholders.

    ·    Directly related to this, efforts to establish a results-based management/performance
system requires intensive supervision and is not justified unless the methodology for measuring
its outcomes is designed and understood by key stakeholders at appraisal, with subsequent
continuous reinforcement of the concept and operational implications. The responsibility for
quality at entry was shared in this case. The Bank should not have over-emphasized results-based
management if the basic institutional and systemic mechanisms were not in place, or well-
understood, in a weak state like Maranhão. Strong M&E systems are essential and the Bank needs
to ensure through hands-on supervision that the right data is collected and that its linkages to
planning and policy-making are promoted and understood.

    ·    Monitoring and evaluation are essential components of poverty reduction projects and an
integral part of the development process, and are especially important for CDD projects with a
multiplicity of diverse private investments. The institutional, methodological and operational
aspects of M&E, not just the requirement for M&E per se, should be a priority from the earliest
stages of project preparation and the project team should include appropriate expertise. M&E
systems need tailoring to the type of project and should be easily managed by the project unit.
Simple, agile forms of evaluation, e.g., case studies rather than weightier baseline and follow-up
exercises, may be more appropriate initially, as the borrower gains experience. Further, project
implementation units do not necessarily understand the PDO and how project activities are
designed to achieve the PDO, and thus the Bank needs to carefully explain the thinking behind
and content of the PDO, and its intimate link to M&E methodologically and operationally.19

    ·    Productive subprojects, regardless of scale and target population, need strong feasibility
analysis, pre-defined marketing channels/arrangements, accurate diagnosis of the physical and
human resource context and technical assistance needs, and of potential sources of working/other
capital. The Northeast CDD projects, for example, are essentially offering poor communities a
unique chance to jump-start a productive process via grant financing. Deficient analysis wastes
this opportunity, with longer-term implications. Project preparation needs to ensure that the
Borrower's implementing team, at the central and decentralized levels, has the technical skills to
ensure high quality feasibility analysis.

    ·    The project validated broader research findings that weak levels of community
organization can translate into an obstacle for poor communities trying to access the benefits of
CDD projects. Circumstances and timing prevented the project from acting on MTR



19This might need to occur during preparation, then again at the MTR or if government turns over and a new project
management team is installed by the Borrower.




                                                         26

recommendations for more focused mobilization and organization of the poorest and most
vulnerable communities/groups. Concentrated effort is needed to detect and target such
communities with capacity and awareness-building actions and information to ensure they
understand the project, and their rights and responsibilities within its methodological and
operational framework. The risk of malfeasance and manipulation is increased when fragile
groups are inadequately prepared to access project benefits.

    ·    The timing of the Mid-term Review is critical and should not be delayed for reasons
unrelated to its core function, i.e., determining the status and quality of performance with
sufficient time remaining to permit the implementation of recommended corrections, possible re-
structuring and/or extension of the closing date. Conducting the MTR late effectively left no time
to implement important findings should the project not be extended. Extension should not have
been assumed but rather seen as the logical outcome of circumstances emerging from the MTR
mission itself.

    ·    The application of Bank-approved procurement procedures for CDD projects requires
considerable initial and periodic training of project implementation agencies which, in turn, need
to transmit this training to beneficiary community associations. In the particular case of Brazil,
this requires more pro-active engagement on the part of the Bank to periodically clarify to
implementing agencies when and how Bank-approved procedures, as specified in the loan
agreement and Operational Manual, should be used by communities, and how these may or may
not relate to Brazilian Law 8666 on procurement.

    ·    Decentralized, community-based projects with broad geographic coverage require more
frequent, technical and specialized missions including fiduciary and safeguard specialists. Other
Northeast rural poverty reduction projects are now focusing much more on productive
investments which have specialized technical and operational requirements. The ability of
supervision missions to finance the inclusion of specialists is critical to the success of such
activities, including via the training opportunity they can provide to state technical units for
analyzing, approving and overseeing implementation of such subprojects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1      Borrower's comments have been incorporated into the main text of the ICR,
where relevant. See full letter in Annex 7.



(b) Cofinanciers


N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                                27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                                    Percentage of
            Components                                               Estimate (USD
                                           (USD millions)                                         Appraisal
                                                                        millions)
 COMMUNITY SUBPROJECTS                               35.30                   23.07                   65.35
 INSTITUTIONAL
                                                       2.00                   1.20                   60.00
DEVELOPMENT
 HORIZONTAL INTEGRATION                                1.00                   0.00                    0.00
 PROJECT ADMIN,
SUPERVISION, MONITORING                                1.00                   2.23                  223.00
AND EVALUATION


               Total Baseline Cost                   39.30                   24.50                   62.34

Physical Contingencies
                                                       0.40                    0.00                   0.00

Price Contingencies
                                                       0.30                    0.00                   0.00
               Total Project Costs                   40.00                   24.50                   61.25
                                                       0.00                    0.00                   .00
                                                       0.00                    0.00                   .00
      Total Financing Required                       40.00                   24.50                   61.25




 (b) Financing
                                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                  Type of          Estimate         Estimate       Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                               Cofinancing           (USD             (USD            Appraisal
                                                                   millions)       millions)20
 Borrower                                                            6.40              3.84              60.00
 Community associations                                              3.60              3.46              96.11
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                     30.00            19.20              64.00
and Development




20Includes the US$1.091 million declared ineligible by the Bank in December, 2008, to be returned by the Borrower to
the Bank by June 30, 2009.




                                                         28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

2.1      The following information on project implementation outputs is taken from the Mid-term
Review performance study of September 2008 (SEAGRO/NEPE, 2008), updated by NEPE with
data from the MIS through end-December 2008. Complementary information on project
targeting, costs and other aspects is also included. NEPE has provided a revised version of key
parts of the MTR study, with data updated to end-December 2008.

Component 1: Community Subprojects

2.2      The project financed 626 subprojects, 52% of the original target of 1,200 and 63% of a
revised target of 1,000 subprojects, adjusted down in mid-2008 to reflect the appreciation of the
Real against the US Dollar.21 Of this total, infrastructure investments were 290 or 37% of an
original estimated 780, productive were 300, 100% of original target and social were 36, 30% of
target. The total number of subprojects approved by the CMDRSs and transmitted to NEPE was
1,814 implying that some 1,188 proposals remained without financing at closing. Table 2.2.1
shows implementation indicators, while Table 2.2.2 shows the status of subprojects in the
pipeline at closing. As indicated, financed does not necessarily mean completed. Some 401
subprojects were concluded, with/without some form of pending issue, while another 225 were at
various stages of the processing pipeline.

Table 2.2.1: Implementation Indicators at Closing
                 Item                     Unit          Target                   Results
                                                                      Total            Percentage
 Subprojects implemented                   No            1,200             626               52
 - Infrastructure                          No             780              290               37
 - Productive                              No             300              300               100
 - Social                                  No             120               36               30
 Beneficiaries
 - Families                             Families        80,000            40,800             51
 - Persons                               Persons       540,000           222,995             41
 Community associations benefited          No             960              612               64
 Territorial consortia established         No              4                0                 0
Source: NEPE/MIS




21The original target was estimated when the exchange rate was R$2.35/USD but by mid-2008 with the
rate at R$1.65/USD, 1,000 subprojects seemed a more realistic target. The exchange rate went up again to
about R$2.30 in late 2008.




                                                  29

Table 2.2.2: Status of Subprojects in the Pipeline, at Closing (12/31/2008)
 Status                               Infrastructure     Productive      Social
 Concluded                                   195               158             24
 Concluded with pending issues                10                5               -
 Concluded, not operational                    2                7               -
 Under execution                              39               71               3
 Initiated but stalled                        22               12               1
 No information                                6               21               5
 Not initiated                                16               26               3
 Total:                                      290               300             36
Source: NEPE/MIS

2.3      Targeting: At appraisal, eligible municipalities were divided on the basis of Municipal
HDI (HDI-M) into two areas, with 60% of total subproject resources allocated to Area A
comprising the 80 poorest municipalities, and the remaining 40% of resources to 136
municipalities in Area B. However, the new State Governor in 2007 proposed further tightening
of targeting in two ways: (a) geographic, with action concentrated in just 54 municipalities in
three Regions (Baixada Maranhenses, Lagos Maranhenses, and Alto Turi); and (b) concentrated
actions for the most vulnerable "Special Groups", e.g., Afro-Brazilian and quilombola
communities, indigenous groups, women, artisanal fishing communities and youth, located either
within or outside the focus geographic area. The justification was that these areas contained
significant pockets of poverty and a majority of the state's quilombola and fishing groups, and
that they were relatively close to the capital thereby permitting close oversight of project actions
in the initial period of the new administration. The approach would be expanded geographically
over time.

2.4      This tighter focus did not alter established operational procedures, but was initiated and
executed rapidly, with mixed results. Some 127 municipalities, 59% of the eligible total,
benefited from subproject investments, with a range of between 1 and 17 subprojects per
municipality and an average of 4.5. In practice, however, 210 or 37% of all investments were
focused in just 17 municipalities, all of which were in the Baixa Maranhense and Alto Turi
Regions and as demonstrated by the MTR report (2008), they were not the municipalities most
deserving of this focus on the basis of HDI-M. Area A municipalities, as defined in the PAD had
an HDI-M ranking between 217th and 137th, i.e., between HDI-M of 0.486 and 0.564. In practice,
investment concentrated on municipalities most of which were technically within Area B, i.e.,
with HDI-M above 0.564 or the 80th ranking. The same pattern is observed regarding subproject
value. Municipalities which received a higher number of investments also showed the greater
values. Even in Area B, 48% of subprojects and values were concentrated in three regions.


2.5      Comparison of two periods shows the impact of the new administration's strategy.
Whereas in the period from February to December 2006 the three priority regions received 36%
of subprojects financed in that period, from January 2007 to June 2008 the same three regions
received an "avalanche" of financing (MTR Report, 2008) amounting to 58% of all subprojects
financed in the period. The 626 subprojects financed by end-December 2008 were divided
between 612 community associations; only 14 associations received more than one subproject.
Each subproject financed benefited, on average, 65 families and 364 individuals. The bottom line,
observed by the April 2008 MTR mission was that Area A municipalities, as defined at appraisal,
remained at a disadvantage in terms of the allocation of resources. The reasons are diverse and
include poorer communities' low levels of organization and hence access to PRODIM.




                                                 30

2.6       Special Groups: The number of subprojects financed for each Special Group was
proportionally higher than its representation in the PRODIM target population. Defined,
vulnerable groups representing some 14,013 families (about 86,430 persons) received a total 194
subprojects, 31% of the total financed to end-June 2008 and benefiting 190 associations,
equivalent to 31% of all associations benefited. Indigenous groups received mainly productive
investments of which manioc mills were about 57%. For quilombola associations, investments
were more diverse including infrastructure and productive. Sanitation (water supply and septic)
was 38%, while processing of primary products (fruits, sugar-cane, manioc and rice) represented
40%. Women's associations benefited primarily from productive investments such as manioc
mills and rustic poultry production, but sanitation was about 25% of the total. For associations of
young people, 90% of investments were in education, especially agricultural technology. Finally,
for artisanal fishing communities, among the poorest project beneficiaries, fishing-related
equipment, chilling facilities for fish storage, and fish farming technologies were about 55% of
the total. Sanitation and production diversification were also prominent.

2.7       Analysis of indigenous and quilombola groups, however, shows that PRODIM had less
reach, in terms of average families/subproject and in terms of individuals/subproject. Average
values are significantly lower than all the other groups especially in terms of total subprojects and
average cost per subproject. This situation might be explained by the "ethnicity" variable which
distinguishes the two groups and has marginalized them as the very poorest within Maranhão's
most poor rural populations. Even so using IBGE/PNAD-2007 data, PRODIM reached 20.2% of
the indigenous population and 3.4% of quilombolas/Afro-Brazilian groups.

Table 2.6.1: Results of "Targeting of "Special Groups" (12/31/2008)
 Item                      Women       Indigenous   Quilombola  Youth        Fishermen   Results
 Total subprojects                34           40           72           23           25      194
 - Infrastructure                   9           2           37           10            7        65
 - Productive                     22           37           35            5           18      117
 - Social                           3           1            0            8            0        12
 % of Total Financing            5.43         6.39       11.50         3.67        3.99      30.99
 Entities benefited               34           39           69           23           25      190
 Association members          28,791        1,345        2,479       2,280        1,141     36,036
 Families benefited             2,574       1,977        3,679       2,334        3.449     14,013
 Aver. families/subproject        76           49           51          101         138         72
 Persons benefited            25,085        9,885       18,250       11,670      21,540     86,430
 Aver. Persons/subproject        738          247          253          507         862       446
Source: NEPE/MIS

2.8       Evidence shows that, except for quilombolas, average costs of subprojects for members
of "Special Groups" were significantly lower, requiring attention under any future, similar
project.

Table 2.8.1: Value of financing for Special Groups (12/31/2008)
                                  Value Financed                       Average (R$)
       Special Groups            R$         % of total     By entity      By person     By family
 Women                         1,683,560            5.18       49,516         67.11        654.00
 Indigenous                    1,377,795            4.24       35,328        139.38        697.00
 Quilombolas                   3,743,120          11.51        54,248        205.10      1,017.00
 Rural Youth                   1,188,545            3.65       51,675        101.85        509.00
 Fishing Groups                1,707,959            5.25       68,318         79.29        495.00
 Subtotal                      9,700,980          29.82        51,057        112.24         692.00
 % of total                        29.82          29.82         96.07         76.95         86.84
 Total for subprojects        32,527,081            100        53,148        145.86         797.00



                                                 31

2.9      Productive subprojects: These were generally of very small scale, mostly for local sale
or consumption and to complement income and subsistence. In part, the small scale stemmed
from low expectations of the extremely poor groups involved and possibly also the lack of strong
organization and technical guidance. The most recent project supervision mission agreed with
NEPE that the strategy needed to change, stressing market access and once again, seeking to
build up communities' infrastructure deficits which remain serious and which hamper productive
activities. There is little/no evidence that productive activity evolved into more organized,
technologically advanced forms and the MTR study mentions that rural extension services were
weak.

2.10     Costs: The original disbursement plan shows US$16.0 million and US$10.6 million
allocated to Area A and B municipalities respectively for community subprojects. The final
outcome shows IBRD disbursements of US$7.7 million for Area A (48%) and US$7.6 million for
Area B (72%) leaving an undisbursed balance of about US$10.8 million at closing. Total cost of
subprojects at closing was US$23.07 million, including state counterpart and beneficiary
association contributions. Of this, 55% was for infrastructure, 38% for productive and 7% for
social investments. The highest amounts were applied to water supply systems, sanitation systems
and manioc mills, which also benefit the greatest number of families. The overall average cost of
subprojects was US$36,851. The average cost per family benefited was (US$565). The
distribution of resources among beneficiary regions saw Baixada Maranhense the largest
recipient with 25% of the total value applied to community subprojects. The highest average
value per subproject was found in Cerrado Maranhense (R$84,146 or US$36,270).

2.11     Demand: Subproject demand greatly exceeded estimates. Unfinanced proposals in
NEPE's portfolio at closing (1,188) represented the unsatisfied demand of some 113,000 families.
See table.

Table 2.10.1: Total Demand Financed and Deficit
     Category          Demanded             Financed           % Attended            Deficit
 Infrastructure             803                290                 36.11               -513
 Productive                 868                300                 34.56               -568
 Social                     143                 36                 25.17               -107
 Total:                    1,814               626                 34.51             -1,188
Source: NEPE/MIS


2.12     Component 2: Institutional Development. Implementation of this component was quite
strong in physical terms even within the reduced time frame. As detailed in Table 2.8.1, the
project financed numerous courses and training events for the associations, CMDRSs and NEPE
personnel. Courses for association leaders covered operational aspects of the project, workshops
supporting integrated demand plans (PID) and training in the implementation and management of
community subprojects. In the case of the Councils, a sizeable number were already consolidated
and operationally ready resulting from previous Bank and other programs. Priority was given to
CMDRSs in the 80 priority Area A municipalities who received training in community
mobilization, operational aspects of the project, and legal and managerial aspects of the CMDRS
themselves. NEPE personnel attended seminars designed to improve communication, monitoring
and planning and other operational elements, although the impact of these training events at any
level is not known. The MTR study states unequivocally that rural extension services and
practical training were weak aspects of the project, putting at risk communities' ability to utilize




                                                32

and achieve concrete gains from their physical investments. Table 2.11.1 shows that about 12%
of all subprojects received technical assistance.

2.13     The project financed 114 courses and information sessions for community associations in
many aspects of the project itself and subproject investments. Well over 1,000 leaders from the
"Special Groups" were included. Similarly, some 368 events benefited the CMDRSs, covering
community mobilization, council management, participation and sustainability and project
operations. Training for both groups reached some 24,800 individuals. Coordinating all of this
required that about 100 NEPE staff also be trained in many aspects of project management and
operations.

Table 2.11.1: Indicators of Institutional Development Component
 Activities                          Unit          Target       Results Achieved
 Preparation of annual program of training and technical assistance
 - NEPE                                  No.           4            3         75%
 - Municipal Councils (CMDRS)            No.           4            3         75%
 Training courses offered to:
 - Beneficiary associations              No.          40          114        285%
 - CMDRSs                                No.          432         368         85%
 - NEPE staff                            No.          16           14         88%
 Technical assistance provided for:
 - subproject implementation         Subprojects     1,200        201         12%
                                      attended
Source: NEPE/MIS

2.14     Component 3: Horizontal Integration. Initiation of this component was explored
briefly in late 2006 through some training and planning of the required monitoring system, but
was not intensified under the new government. According to the BCR (NEPE 2009), major
difficulties faced its implementation. Essentially, while a component of the project, its execution
was the responsibility of the State Secretariat of Planning. It became apparent that the system of
monitoring envisaged was very complex, requiring specialized teams for adequate management
which in turn created a barrier due to government restrictions on contracting. In view of these
restrictions, the new administration decided to scale back efforts to operationalize it and the plan
was to reallocate the resources to another component at the same time as the envisaged extension
of the closing date.

2.15     However, the project did support actions to integrate public policies. The MTR report
asserts that gains in Components 1 and 2 would not have been possible without functional
linkages between administrative and other entities at the state and local levels. Even at the
decentralized level of the case studies, there was evidence of agreements between federal, state
and municipal entities and stakeholders.

2.16     Component 4: Administration, Supervision, Monitoring & Evaluation. NEPE's
Project supervision activities were about on par for a project with two years of active execution
but not without inconsistencies. Some 2,000 visits were made to rural locations but virtually all
these supervision events occurred in the 80 Area A targeted municipalities (BCR, NEPE 2009).
Achievements are as shown in Table 2.10.1 below




                                                 33

Table 2.14.1: Indicators of Administration, Supervision, M&E
                    Activities                            Unit            Target                    Results
 Supervision
 - Subprojects                                        No. visits        3,600              1,651           46%
 - CMDRSs                                             No. visits        1,728              423             24%
 Annual Operating Plans (POA)
 - POA preparation (CMDRS)                            No.               4                  4               50%
 - Consolidation and preparation of POA               No.               4                  2               50%
 (subprojects)
 Monitoring Reports
 - Monthly cost summaries and MIS                     No.               48                 28              50%
 - Annual and semi-annual reports                     No.               4                  2               50%
 - External audits                                    No.               4                  2               50%
 Evaluation Reports
 - Baseline study                                     No.               1                  0               0
 - Final study                                        No.               1                  0               0
 - Mid Term Review study                              No.               1                  1               100%
Source: NEPE/MIS


Mid-term Review (MTR)

2.17      An evaluation of the project's physical performance was conducted for the Mid-term
Review in 2008,22 based in part on interviews with beneficiaries, community leaders and local
authorities and drawing on field observations and data from the project MIS. The Bank mission
assessed overall performance as satisfactory, with no need to make any substantive changes.
Principal findings and recommendations of the MTR mission and of the MTR performance study
are summarized below. Results of case studies included in that study are summarized in Annex 5.
There was insufficient time before closing for NEPE to follow-up on MTR recommendations:

    ·     Procurement. The MTR found overly-complex procurement procedures and lack of
understanding of procurement rules and processes by associations (MTR Aide Memoire, April
30, 2008).      NEPE was found not to be providing adequate supervision and guidance to
communities on problems to be avoided in procurement, and there was a lack of rigorous analysis
by NEPE of problematic subproject documentation in order to make corrections. The MTR
recommended that NEPE: (a) prepare procurement procedures designed to facilitate associations'
involvement, including model documents; (b) send technicians to the subprojects to review their
status; and, (c) expand the use of the MIS as a procurement control and supervision instrument.
NEPE was also asked to update the Operational Manual which at the time of the MTR had no
specific section on procurement. NEPE's response to these recommendations was slow and
incomplete and was in any case overtaken by the closing of the project. See also 2.2.6 and 2.4.6.

    ·     Productive Subprojects: NEPE was advised to improve the criteria and rigor for
analyzing productive subprojects including managerial capacity, and economic, financial and
environmental sustainability. User fees were to be set realistically based on actual monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) costs and numbers of beneficiaries. Priority was to be given to investments
supporting actual family production and marketing, and to establishing user fees. NEPE was


22 It was assumed, given the project's late effectiveness and slow start-up, that the closing date would be extended and
thus the mid-term review, while later than originally planned, was seen as de facto an analytical exercise at the
project's mid point.



                                                          34

advised to desist from financing certain types of productive activities deemed unsustainable
including due to scale issues. Partnerships were recommended with the Brazilian Service for
Support to Small Enterprises (SEBRAE) to better oversee/monitor productive subprojects,
provide technical assistance for management, and promote links between producers and
markets/buyers within and outside the State. These efforts were to focus on products with genuine
potential, e.g. honey, vegetables, crafts, cashew nut and fruit pulp. The design of reference
models was recommended for subprojects in greater demand, with standard technical/other
parameters to ensure quality and environmental preservation.

    ·    Environment.      The MTR Aide Memoire noted that "bearing in mind institutional
restrictions of the past two years" implementation of the project's Environmental Management
Plan was on track and NEPE's in-house environmental professional was performing well on
establishing routines and processes. Educational materials were prepared, environmental
monitoring was built into the MIS, and partnership arrangements were starting up. However,
community demand for environmental subprojects was weak and needed promotion via
demonstration units and other means, and no action had been taken to initiate multi-municipal
consortia or territorial activities supporting environmental management. The Bank team presented
NEPE with a detailed set of recommendations but as with other aspects of the MTR, the short
time available prevented follow-up.

    ·    CMDRSs: The Municipal Councils, especially outside the area of concentration (Area 1)
needed motivation, training, and appeared un-motivated and inactive. This may have been a
function of NEPE's slow, bureaucratic implementation combined with small amounts of funding
allocated (notionally) to municipalities in Area 2 (about US$79,000 for four years), enough for
just a few subprojects in the period. NEPE was advised to initiate a program of training and
reorganization of CMDRSs with difficulties, especially those outside Area 1.

    ·    Targeting: NEPE was advised to continue its focus on 54 priority municipalities and on
the "Special Groups", ensuring that their subproject demands, like all others, were submitted to
the CMDRSs for debate and prioritization, and noting that their special status did not confer
exemption from the project's participatory processes/mechanisms.




                                                  35

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

       Not available due to lack of data and comprehensive project evaluation by the time of
Closing in December 2008.




                                              36

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending

Luis O. Coirolo            TTL                                LCSER Ag. Economist
Raimundo N. Caminha       Agriculturalist                    LCSRE Agriculturalist
Tulio Barbosa              Operations Officer                 LCSRE Ag. Economist
Joao Barbosa-De Lucena     Operations Officer                 LCSRE Ag. Development
Edward William Bresnyan    Consultant                        LCSAR Ag. Economist
Anna Roumani               Consultant                        LCSAR Rural Development
Estela Neves               Consultant                         LCSRE Env. Specialist
Isabel Braga               Sr. Environmental Specialist      LCSEN Environment
Jose Augusto Carvalho      Sr. Counsel                       LEGLA Lawyer
Maria Madalena dos Santos Sector Leader                      LCSHD Health aspects
Claudio Mittelstaedt       Financial Specialist              LCOAA Fin. Management
Mark Thomas                Economist                          LCSPE M&E
Supervision/ICR
Jorge A. Muñoz             Task Team Leader                  LCSAR Ag. Economist
Raimundo N. Caminha       Consultant                         LCSAR Ag. Development
Tulio Barbosa              Consultant                        LCSAR Ag. Economist
Joao Barbosa-De Lucena    Consultant                         LCSAR Ag. Development
Edward William Bresnyan    Senior Rural Develop. Specialist  LCSAR Ag. Economist
Luis O. Coirolo            Consultant                        SASDA Ag. Economist
Frederico Rabello          Procurement Specialist             LCSPT Procurement
Alberto Coelho Gomes Costa Consultant                        LCSAR Sociologist
Nicholas Drossos           Consultant                        LOAFC Fin. Management
Roberto Mosse              Consultant                        LCSFM Fin. Management
Estela Maria Souza Costa
                           Consultant                        LCSAR Environment
Neves
Anna Roumani               Consultant                        LCSAR Rural Development
Luciano Wuerzius           Procurement Specialist             LCSPT Procurement
                                                                      Project
Maria de Fatima Amazonas Operations Officer                  LCSAR
                                                                      management


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                         10                       102.34
  FY04                                         27                       201.26
  FY05                                          1                         2.56
  FY06                                          2                        17.58

                         Total:                40                       323.74


                                           37

Supervision/ICR
 FY04                                 9.63
 FY05                          7     77.47
 FY06                         15    135.72
 FY07                          7     60.23
 FY08                          5     80.06
 FY09                          7      0.00

                   Total:     41    363.11




                            38

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.       As discussed in Section 2.3, while project monitoring was satisfactory, little progress was
made on evaluation. At the time of closing, negotiations were still ongoing to contract the
planned impact evaluation study. The main analytical piece produced by the project was the Mid-
term Review report of September, 2008 (SEAGRO/NEPE 2008) which included the preparation
of four case studies: (a) Agro-processing Facility for Production of Manioc Starch in Graca
Aranha; (b) Demonstration Unit for Short-cycle Rustic Poultry Production in Vargem Grande; (c)
Water Distribution Network in Mirinzal; and (d) Household Sanitation Facilities in Porto Rico do
Maranhão. Information was collected during a series of field visits utilizing on-site, non-
structured interviews with community leaders, residents and health agents, supported by data in
the MIS. Results are summarized below.


2.       Production of Manioc Starch. This subproject ­ production of fecula de mandioca
(manioc starch) - was requested by the Community Association of Povoado Macauba in the
Municipality of Graca Aranha, Presidente Dutra Region. It was designed to conform to the HDI
category of "Income Generation Support" and benefited 19 families at a total cost of R$84,850
including community contribution (in labor) of about R$12,700. The community of Santa Lucia
das Matas has 750 inhabitants (about 150 families), most homes are taipa (mud and sticks) and
65% have no form of sanitation. However, all have water supply (tube-well with distribution
system) and are connected to a mono-phasic electricity network. There is no health post but
community health agents can transport sick residents to a town center for treatment. There is a
municipal school and public telephones. There is no public transportation. Several very small-
scale groceries and bars serve the community.


3.       The main productive activity is rain-fed agriculture, especially the cultivation and
processing of manioc using family labor. Land is mostly rented, although several families do have
properties between 5 and 20 ha. Total area cropped annually is about 150 ha. Cattle and pigs are
also raised in rustic, unconfined conditions. The community's strength is clearly manioc
production and especially manioc gum with a reputation for quality in the Region and well
beyond. Manioc gum production sustains 40 manioc mills which operate almost continuously,
also processing manioc from neighboring municipalities. Local agents intermediate the purchase
of manioc and its distribution between the mills, as well as subsequent marketing of the gum and
by-products in neighboring areas and as far distant as the State of Para. The mills use
artisanal/traditional processes and hygiene is commonly inadequate. Manual labor has been
substituted in some cases by mechanized processing and electric drying ovens. Municipal
authorities, observing the efforts of the community to grow and the precariousness of their gum
production situation/conditions, linked the community to the project for the financing of a new
facility.


4.       The subproject financed construction of a large shed plus machinery and equipment
appropriate to all stages of the manioc processing cycle and based on modern standards of
hygiene, functionality and technical efficiency. The plant operates for 6-8 months of the year.
Each of the 19 members (and some 31 non-members) utilize the plant by paying a fee, and
coordinating the process including payment of the labor needed at each processing stage. The
usage fee applied to operation and maintenance costs, and to the association itself, is paid in
product equal to 10% of total production of each user ­ associate and non-associate.
Traditionally, each family cultivates about 1.5 ha per year which yields about 9 tons of manioc
/ha. Thus total production on 28.5 ha by the 19 member families is about 256 tons. While no
register is kept of the movement of product, based on this data it is estimated that this would



                                                39

result in production of 76.9 tons of starch, 25.6 tons of flour and 25.6 tons of manioc shavings
(raspa).


5.      While all equipment required to produce the manioc starch (fecula) was acquired by the
subproject, it was found by the study team still in its original factory boxes, in storage. The
reasons, as explained by the association president, were lack of knowledge of how to handle
fecula and of what to do with a product which ­ as it turned out - was not part of the local culture,
raising questions about the original subproject feasibility analysis. The gum on the other hand, is
sold to local middlemen in 60 kg sacks and taken to largely local and neighboring markets. The
other by-products ­ washed manioc flour and manioc shavings (raspa) ­ are sold in the
community itself. The former is used as an ingredient in animal feed and the shavings for cattle
feed.


6.      Results. Taking into account the activities only of the 19 members, estimated
costs/expenses totaled around R$56,000 and annual returns/income about R$134,662. Thus, after
the subproject investment, monthly net returns were R$6,551 which gave each of the 19 members
an income of about R$345/month. The association itself made about R$13,100/year or
R$1,090/month from this, enabling payment of its water and electricity bills. This is seen as
relatively modest, especially given the association's increasing maintenance costs as use of the
equipment/facility intensifies. Compared to the traditional operation however, the subproject is
showing positive results for the community, especially in the functionality and efficiency of the
process, translating into better work, greater level of hygiene and final quality of the gum.

7.      The gum product is negotiated on site at harvest time at a price of R$1.60/kg, an
additional R$0.15 over the price normally paid for traditional gum ­ mainly due to superior
quality. In regard to marketing, this manioc gum product has potential for placement in more
demanding markets. The alternatives are to: further refine/tailor the product to the needs of
consumers; establish marketing strategies for inserting this product in regional and national
markets; and, insert the product in fair-trade marketing chains, given its "territorial" character and
social appeal. Further, the association could expand its range of products by receiving training in
the use of the equipment purchased for transforming the gum into starch, for which marketing
opportunities should also be sought. The association was also advised to adopt more modern
accounting and control practices.

8.      Demonstration Unit for Production of Rustic Poultry. This productive subproject was
requested by the Association of Negro Women of Piqui Village in the Municipality of Vargem
Grande, Itapecuru Region, and was designed to conform to the HDI category of "Income
Generation Support". The community of 37 inter-related families is located in a remote area but
accessible by road. Even though registered, landholding is precarious and the community is
essentially a quilombo. Houses of taipa (mud and sticks) are being replaced under government
housing programs, and the community now has a health post, school, electricity, water supply,
telephone, and community center, all of which financed by the Bank-supported Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program, PRONAF and/or the recently-closed project (PRODIM). The community is
endowed with favorable natural resources ­ diverse vegetation and water sources. However,
productive activities are at a subsistence level, conducted in a cooperative, mutually supportive
tradition.  The association in question was founded in 1991 at a time when Quilombola
communities were being encouraged to organize and assert their rights.

9.      With support from international church groups, the women had been producing crafts,
vegetables and other small items for sale. Since they knew only traditional forms of poultry
production, it was decided to install a demonstration unit to produce in the traditional manner but


                                                 40

with technological improvements, e.g., more intensive production destined for market. Total
approved value was R$20,700 including community contribution of just over R$3,000. The
demonstration unit included a 150 sq. meter rustic aviary, fencing, acquisition of chicks and
equipment for the aviary, and technical assistance and training. Some 37 families benefited and
implementation took about three months. Subproject installation was well-supervised. Each
installation has capacity for 500 birds with total annual production capacity of 2,000 birds. A
supplier in the local town brings the day-old chicks to the facility.

10.      An innovative feature was the idea of using local agricultural products for basic feed
rations for the birds, complemented by commercial supplements and medications purchased in
the local town. The birds would be placed in the grassy, picketed area to graze, roam, get sun, and
maintain their rustic quality. However, local products only include rice and manioc and in small
quantity. Further, the boundary picket was still not completely installed because the area selected
- between babacu palms - is shady and the grass is smothered by the young chicks as soon as it
germinates. The women maintain a calendar of routines at each stage of the birds' development
where each member handles feeding, cleaning and oversight on a revolving schedule. Their work
is unpaid and voluntary. Bird mortality is about 5%, resulting in production of some 1,900
chickens per year, marketed every 90 days at a live-weight of three kg/bird.

11.      Results. The association has difficulty computing their costs and in reconciling their
expenditures and receivables. Even so, it was clear to the study team that expenditures exceeded
income. Total annual costs were around R$30,300 and income from sales was R$28,500. The
team felt that the subproject was conceptually and operationally deficient in certain aspects,
affecting its sustainability both as a demonstration unit and as a source of community income due
to:

    ·    insufficient training and supervision in basic accounting, management, marketing,
         sanitary issues and nutrition;
    ·    exclusive use of commercial rations (when the original idea of using local materials was
         non-feasible) defeated the overall concept of "rusticity" and wasted an attribute which
         could constitute a value-added;
    ·    lack of local agricultural products or sub-products which can guarantee feed for 2000
         chickens per year ­ agro-climatic conditions are unsuitable for the cultivation of corn,
         sorghum and other grains used to feed poultry;
    ·    the picketed area where birds were meant to roam and feed was in an area unsuitable for
         planting grass;
    ·    the 90-day period required before sale/slaughter of birds was double that of
         industrial/commercial facilities, making the enterprise uncompetitive.

12.      The subproject did not increase family income but did increase the supply of food to the
community. It also increased employment opportunities, but unremunerated. Also, community
members were able to purchase chicken locally, rather than in Vargem Grande. While the
subproject covered two focus areas ­ a women's subproject in a quilombola community ­ the
lesson is that to produce rustic poultry (galinha caipira) in commercial quantity/quality requires
precise knowledge of production and marketing, as with the "regular" product. Such features
were not found in this example.

13.      The study suggested that to generate income, this community should try other alternatives
such as: manioc flour, honey, extraction and processing of forest fruits, and crafts. Members'




                                                 41

high level of social capital indicates potential to review the original project concept and to obtain
appropriate training for this or another activity.

14.     Water Distribution Network. The subproject was requested by 128 families of the
Quilombola community of Guritil (part of a larger community of 850 people) in the Baixa
Maranhense Region of the state, and was intended to fit the HDI criterion of "support to health
and sanitation". The community already had primary and secondary school infrastructure,
childcare center, health post, electricity, water supply system (chafariz), communal market and a
public telephone obtained through diverse public programs. However, productive activities
were/are largely subsistence-based with some cattle, pigs and chicken, artisanal fishing and
extractive activities. IBGE data shows per capita income in Mirinzal is R$80.00/month vs the
R$110/month state average. A high proportion of municipal residents are supported by the Bolsa
Familia program.

15.     The community has two associations, one of which had already benefited under the
previous Bank-supported Rural Poverty Alleviation Project with investments in a tractor and the
production of rustic poultry (galinha caipira). These associations meet regularly and have a
representative on the CMDRS. The association in question prioritized household water
connection which did not then reach their section of the community due to a dividing roadway.


16.     Subproject implementation/completion took about five months. Subproject value was
about R$43,170 with a community contribution of some R$6,475, and financed a 20,000 liter
water storage facility, pipes, household connections and excavation extending 1700 meters. The
system was approved and implemented rapidly. The association maintains the system and charges
each family R$4.0/month to support operation and maintenance costs. Collection of this fee has
encountered some resistance but threat of disconnection has been enough to promote the payment
of arrears.

17.     Results: The community was unanimous that piped water had improved family
wellbeing by: reducing the incidence of water-related infections; reducing the time spent by
women/girls in physically collecting water; improving women's health by not having to carry
heavy loads over distance every day; allowing more study time for young people no longer
involved in daily water transport; and, superior water quality from deeper sources not requiring
costly purification and filtration. The system also serves the schools, health post and public
market.


18.     Household Sanitation Facilities. The subproject was requested by 56 families belonging
to the Community Association of Sao Jose in the municipality of Porto Rico do Maranhão,
Baixada Maranhense Region, and was designed to conform to the HDI criterion of "support to
health and sanitation". The region is characterized by population growth above the state average;
proliferation of dispersed, small communities; rudimentary agriculture and environmental
degradation; dysfunctional land occupation; declining agricultural productivity and food
insecurity; annual income per capita of about R$1900; lack of basic infrastructure/services; and,
absolute dependence on government transfers.            The particular community requesting the
subproject in question however, due to an active association created in 1996 to resolve the types
of deficits mentioned above, had obtained a health post, phone service, electricity, primary and
secondary schools, water supply with domestic connection and renovated access roads ­ the last
two investments financed by the Bank-supported Rural Poverty Alleviation Project. The Mayor
administers the water supply system with users paying a monthly fee of R$2.00. The association
is active, meeting regularly to discuss community needs and build solidarity.



                                                  42

19.     Results. The subproject involved the construction of 40 outhouse/toilet units with total
value of R$85,300, including community contribution (in labor) of just under R$13,000. The
works were concluded in two months. The community itself, through its manual labor, fulfilled
the technical assistance/oversight function in the absence of the intended provider. Even though
only 56 community members benefited directly, many community members testified to the health
benefits for the entire community of 250 due to greatly reduced environmental pollution. This
case also demonstrated the advantage of relatively good community organization in gaining
access to PRODIM.




                                                43

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                  44

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

    A. Executive Summary from the Borrower Completion Report (NEPE, 2009)
                                      Unofficial Translation

The rural poverty situation as it currently stands came into being in the 1970s when the "Brazilian
miracle" ­ with the industrialization and technification of agriculture - was unable to absorb the
masses of rural dwellers, which thereby emerged as the social problem of rural poverty.

Starting in the 1980s, the State Government of Maranhão, in partnership with the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), began to introduce systematic activities to
combat rural poverty: Project to Support Small Rural Communities (APCR, 1986-1992), Project
to Support the Small Rural Producer (PAPP, 1993-1997) and Project to Combat Rural Poverty
(PCPR, 1998-2004). With minor variations and continuous improvements, they financed
infrastructure for rural communities and/or provided the stimulus to small-scale family and
community agriculture. In addition, they fostered the consolidation of community organizations
by adopting, progressively, mechanisms and events/opportunities for participation. Along with
other projects, they had positive impacts on the living conditions of the population of Maranhão,
as demonstrated by the increasing of the State's Human Development Index from 0.551 in 1991
to 0.647 by 2000.

With a balance of 5,718 demands for which PCPR resources were insufficient, the Government of
Maranhão sent a new proposal for a loan from the World Bank. The proposal was approved in
2004 with a closing date of December 31, 2008; however, the Loan Agreement 4735-BR was not
declared effective until February 2006.

PRODIM was structured in four components for which resources were allocated and activities
were defined convergent with project objectives, that is: Community Subprojects Component;
Institutional Development Component, Horizontal Integration and Public Policies Component,
and Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation Component.

The project mobilized resources totaling US$40.0 million, being US$30.0 million from the World
Bank Loan, US$6.4 million of State Government counterpart funds and US$3.6 million of
beneficiary community contribution in the form of local labor and materials.

According to the approval proposal, the target population would be rural communities in the 80
municipalities with lowest HDI-M; plus, in agreement with the IBRD, the ultimate recipients
came to be concentrated in the municipalities of the Regions of Baixada Maranhense, Lagos and
Alto Turi, independent of their HDI-M and also, the most deprived social groups: indigenous,
quilombolas, coconut workers, artisanal fishermen and young students under the alternate
schooling system.

Starting with the mobilization of communities and the identification of their legitimate needs and
aspirations, the Project provided non-refundable grant financing for small community
investments to overcome the deficiencies diagnosed. Investments were made in basic socio-
economic infrastructure and in productive facilities, seeking to improve the population's health,
education and wellbeing and provide opportunities for work and income. Responsibility for
selecting and managing the investments was left to the community associations and their
municipal councils.




                                                 45

To guarantee the means and conditions to implement and manage the Project, resources and
efforts were also invested in institutional development: technical assistance, consultancies and
training was directed to community associations, municipal councils and to modernizing the
operational capacity of the Technical Unit (TU). It is worth noting the 114 training events for
associations, 368 for Municipal Councils and another 14 events for staff of the TU.

General coordination was delegated to the State Unit for Special Programs (NEPE), a subsidiary
of the State Secretariat for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural development (SEAGRO); the Project
also depended on the support of the 18 regional offices of the State Agency for Research and
Rural Extension ­ AGERP, and, on the involvement requested from the municipal mayors for
logistical support to the Municipal Councils.

With the Project execution period finished, the numbers show that the results achieved exceeded,
in proportional terms, the target.

In terms of physical performance, PRODIM had a demand level of 1,814 subproject proposals of
which 1,192 were approved. Financing was delivered for 626 proposals: 290 infrastructure, 300
productive subprojects and 36 social. Considering the time available - effectively about two years
of implementation before closing - this number corresponds to 52% of the target projected for
four years and attests to the operational capacity of NEPE.

The total value financed was R$32, 527, 081.39, with an average of R$51,236.93 per subproject.

Some 40,801 families and 222,995 people were benefited, in 544 localities in 127 municipalities;
in regard to the "special groups", PRODIM benefited 14,013 families, 86,430 people via the
financing of 194 subprojects.

Further, 1,568 community associations were mobilized of which 612 succeeded in obtaining
financing, or an average of one subproject per association. In regard to the "special groups", the
benefits reached 190 community associations, a total of 36,000 members.

The effort to mobilize, formulate and analyze demands and supervise subproject execution
involved the Municipal Councils, which supported NEPE and the AGERP regional offices.

Among the benefits provided by the Project the following were notable: construction of 79 km of
access roads, 35 km of electric distribution lines; construction of septic wells in 2,158 residences,
drilling of 152 wells, construction of 15 km of water distribution facilities, construction of 53
classrooms, acquisition of 1,030 popa motors and fishing equipment, more than 500 ha of
community agricultural lands, and 165 small agro-industries for the processing of local products.

The results and materials/goods obtained are having a positive impact on health, education,
housing, employment, income, transport and in the proper exercise of citizenship.

The positive outcomes attest to the success of PRODIM.




                                                 46

B. Letter from the State Government of Maranhão responding to the draft ICR




                                    47

48

49

50

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     51

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report no. 28647-BR, April 23, 2004

Supervision ISRs

Supervision Aide Memoires

Bank Financial Management Supervision Reports

Bank Procurement Post Review Reports

Annual Audit Reports and Bank analyses

Mid-Term Review Report: "Relatorio de Desempenho de Meio Termo", September 2008,
SEAGRO/NEPE

Borrower Completion Report (NEPE/2009)




                                            52

MAP No. IBRD 32938




                      53

