Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
d-A/ 2 Z'? 70 -
Report No. 7261-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
May 17, 1986
Agricultural Operations Division IV
Latin America and the C riboean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - AUSTRAL (A)
As of September 25, 1987: USS1.00 - A 2.60
A 1.00 - US$0.38
On OC.toier 14, 1987 a two-tier excharnge rate system announced:
Commercial fixed rate (official):                US$1.00 - A  3.50
A 1.00 - US$0.29
?c*e market rate (December 1, 1987):             US$1.00 - A  4.19
A 1.00 - USS0.24
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
BANADE         National. Bank of Development
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo)
BNA            Bank of the Argentine Nation
(Banco de la Nacion Argentina)
GOA            Government of Argentina
IDD            Inter-American Development Bank
IICA           Inter-American Institute of Cooperation for Agriculture
(Instituto Interamericano de Cooperacion oara la Agricultura)
INTA           National Institute of Agricultural Technology
(Instituto Nacional de Tecnoloaia Agropecuaria)
JNC            National Heat Board
(Junta Nacional de.Carnes)
JNG            National Grain Board
(Junta Nacional de Granos)
PPF            Project Preparation lacility
PRONAGRO       National Program for Agriculture
(Proarama Nacional Agrolecuario)
SAGyP          Secretariat of Agriculture. Livestock and Fisheries
(Secretaria de Acricultura. Ganaderia v Pesca)
SGEP           Public Enterprise Auditor
(Sindicatura General de Emoresas Publicas)
SOE            Statement of Expenditure



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Table of Contents
.Page No.
1.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........             ...............   1
1I. TMc AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.                                                 3
Agriculture in the Economy.                                           3
Principal Non-Financial Institutions in the Sector .                . 4
The Banking Sector.                                                   5
Agricultural Credit.                                                  6
Bank of the Argentine Nation (BNA).                                   6
IBRD's Experience in Lending for Agriculture ... .........   7
III. THE PROJE - .......  8
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement ...              ....    8
Project Objectives and Description .......                            9
Project Implementation .......   9
Lending Terms and Conditions .......  10
Project Costs and Financing .......  11
Procurement ....... 12
Disbursements .......  12
Accounting and Audits .......  :3
Reporting ....... 13
Financial Analysis of Investment Models ..              .....   14
Project Risks .......  14
Environmental Impact .......  15
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......    15
ANNEXES
1.  Bank of the Argentine Nation .......  17
2a. Credit Regulations .......  35
2b.   Selection Criteria for Financial Intermediaries .......    47
2c.  Participation Agreement .......  51
3a.   Monitoring and Evaluation Component Costs ...               ....   58
3b.   Consultant Draft Terms of Reference ....................... 59
4.    Flow of Funds ............................................. 61
5.    Structure of Interest Rates ............................... 62
6.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....................... 63
7.    Key Indicators and Reporting Requirements .................  64
8.    Illustrative Investment Plans ............................. 66
9.     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File   ....  77
Map:  IBRD 20837
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Argentina from November 9 to 27, 1987. This mission was comprised of
Messrs. W. Nickel (Mission Leader), M. Wilson,.J. Parker, A. Guzman, and
M. Hagerstrom (Consultant). The mission was jointly conducted with IDB
whose special team included Messrs. J. Fernandez (Mission Leader),
A. Vives, and F. Gonzaga.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
I. Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers           Bank of the Argentine Nation (BNA).
Beneficiaries:      Sectoral Sub-Borrowers.
Amount:             US$106.5 million equivalent.
Terms:              Fifteen years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-lendin2 Terms:  The Borrower would make available loan funds to
participating financial intermediaries in US dollar-
denominated australes and would charge a spread to cover
the cross-currency exchange risk on IDB and IBRD loans.
BNA, in a second-tier capacity, would rediscount 82Z of
all subloans approved by first-tier banks (to be
financed equally by IBRD and IDB). Sub-borrowers would
contribute at least 15Z of investment cost financing.
Interest rates to sub-borrowers would be variable and
positive in real terms. Principal would be adjusted by
agreed indices to maintain value. Subloan-specific
terms and conditions, consistent with agreed credit
regulations, would be negotiated between participating
financial intermediaries and their clients. The
Government would cover any deficiency in cross-currency
risk provisions during amortization of the IBRD and IDB
loans.
Project
Obiectives:     The project would increase agricultural growth through
modernization of farm machinery, livestock development,
and adoption of cost-effective, efficient technology
consistent with growth, diversification, and soil
conservation. It would also foster increased
participation and efficiency in agricultural lending
through the apex operation proposed.
Project
DescriDtion:    The project would include:  (a) a general line of credit
to finance investments and complementary working capital
for such items as modern machinery, livestock
development, land improvements, orchard planting, land
development, storage, and packing facilities; and
(b) monitoring and evaluation of project impact.



-2-
Project
Benefits:        Principal project benefits would include (a) increased
cost effectiveness and efficiency in production fron,
machinery modernization and technological changes;
(b) greater product diversification; (c) higher
efficiency in product handling and storage; axid (d) so,il
conservation. These would result in higner incomes and
export earnings. Institution-building would take place
through apex lending and through involvement of private
and provincial banks in agricultural investment
financing.
Project Risks:      (a) Uncertain credit demand, complicated by high cost of
non-subsidized credit and difficult macroeconomic
climate. This risk is mitigated by more stable world
prices, reduced export taxes, the urgent need to replace
worn-out farm machinery, very limited alternative
investment credit, and the flexible credit terms of this
project linking adjustment of principal to products of
sub-borrowers. Illustrative investment models indicate
credit would be financially attractive. Demand surveys
supTpirt the proposed project size; and (b) possible
periodic liquidity shortages within participating banks,
mitigated by newly reduced reserve requirements.
Estimated Costs:
Local a/      Foreign        Total
-US$ Million ---------
A.  Investment Credit                         283.20         70.80        354.0
B.  Monitoring and Evaluation                   0.75          0.75          1.5
Total     283.95         71.55        355.5
a/ Net of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
IBRD                                                 106.5
IDB                                                  105.0
Participating Financial Intermediaries                45.0
Sub-borrowers                                         99.0
Total                   375
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY:             1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994   1995    1996
------------------------ USS Million ----------------------
Annuala/             16.5    15.4    19.3    20.2    16.8    10.9         5.6     1.8
Cumulative           16.5    31.9    51.2    71.4    88.2    99.1   104.0   106.5
a/ Includes initial deposit in Special Account of US$10.5 million equivalent.
Economic Rate
of Return:                            Not Applicable
Map:                                  IBRD 20837



-3-
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
2.1     The agricultural sector generates about 702 of Argentina's foreign
exchange earnings, 16? of GDP, and 17? of employment. The country's
diverse agroclimatic base permits production of a wide range of
agricultural commodities that enables self-sufficiency in most foodstuffs
as well as raw materials for the nation's agroindustries. The country has
a variety of climatic conditions ranging from subtropical to cold, but lies
mainly in the temperate zone. Cereals and oilseeds represent principal
crop activities, accounting for about 902 of cropped area. Beef, the
dominant livestock activity, has declined in recent years due to normal
production cycles, loss of export markets, and diminished competitiveness
with double-cropped wheat and soybeans. In the recent past, the sector has
pedformed better than the general economy and in fact has acted as a brake
to a general decline. While overall GDP fell by an annual average of 2.12
over the 1980-85 period, agriculture increased by an average of 2.3Z. Crop
output fell in 1986; farmers compensated to bolster cash flows to some
degree by continuing ;attle herd liquidation. While 1987 was another year
of low output, better weather and stronger prices (para. 2.3) appeared to
have had a favorable impact on spring planted area (October-December) of
selected crops, in particular, soybeans.
2.2     Constraints to Growth.  Despite some technological advances, a
well-developed input distribution system, and a highly competitive
environment for agricultural product marketing, the sector has been
performing well below potential. Because of general economic
uncertainties, low incentives, low world prices, and frequently high
positive real interest rates, farmers have generally used minimal
fertilizer and other chemicals, and also because of scarcity of investment
capital have not replaced and modernized their farm machinery pool. In
1987 the average age of tza:tors in use was almost 18 years, with per unit
area coverage greater than would be expected for a country with Argentina's
level of agricultural development. Accordingly, farmers traditionally have
opted for low-risk, low-input technologies that have led to foregone
productivity and depletion of soils. In addition, recent declines in world
prices and loss of markets for Argentina's principul exports--grains and
beef--have revealed a serious vulnerability and a need to diversify
production and exports where possible while boosting efficiencies in
farming systems where cereal-oilseed rotations are to be maintained.
Agricultural Policy.  Government (GOA) has given priority to
stimulating agricultural production and exports as an important element to
economic recovery. To counter deterioration in farmgate prices, GOA has
reduced export taxes even faster than agreed under the Bank-financed
Agricultural Sector Loan (paras. 2.18-2.19). For the 1986-87 crop season
export taxes were reduced to a weighted average of 52X of May 1985 levels,
compared with 70? required for Sector Loan second tranche release. Further
reductions, virtually to zero, were announced in July 1987. It has also
adopted a medium-term agricultural development program (PRONAGRO) to
establish sectoral priorities and strategy. PRONAGRO defines the following
secLoral objectives: (a) increase production of cereals and oilseeds; (b)



expand agricultural exports; (c) develop regional economies; (d) generate
employment; and (e) encourage natural resource conservation. It proposes
distinct, complementary strategies in the Pampa and non-Pampa areas
(Map No. 20837) bolstered by selective nationwide initiatives. 'in the
Pampa, the area of most intensive and productive agriculture. PRONAGRO also
proposes concentration on cereal and oilseed developmert through
technological improvements and agroindustrial development to capture more
value-added in exports, increased investment in grain storage, and
expansion of the cultivated Lrea. The latter activities would be
associated with some shift of livestock production to less productive, non-
Pampa areas with concomitant upgrading of livestock technology. In the
non-Pampa zone, PRONAGRO also proposes expansion of traditional and higher-
value activities, opening new areas for cultivation of grains and other
exportable items, agro-based infrastructure, and integrated rural
development. National initiatives geared to complement zonal programs
would include: encouraging greater use of fertilizer and herbicides,
enhancing agricultural research and extension efforts, fostering better
crop rotations and soil preparation practices to conserve soil textures and
productivity, upgrading meat processing and storage facilities, and
recapitalizing the banking sect4r to enable substantially higher and
vitally needed private investmeat in agriculture. Complementary rail and
deep-water port development programs are underway to enhance efficiency in
transport, handling, and export.
Principal Non-Financial Institutions in the Sector
2.4     The Secretariat of Agriculture. Livestock, and Fisheries (SAGYP) is
responsible for establishing and implementing agricultural policy. SAGyP
is administratively within the Ministry of Economy. SAGyP ;a receiving
assistance under the Bank-financed Public Sector Management Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 2172-AR) to design and implement a sectoral
information system, strengthen investment programming, and establish a
system of project monitoring and evaluation. Under SAGyP's purview is the
National Institute of Agricultural Technologv (INTA), Argentina's principal
agricultural research agency. Since April 1984 INTA has been financed by a
special surcharge of 1.52 on agricultural exports. INTA is receiving
assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) for a research
and extension project. In additiorn to its regular technical role in
disseminating technical publications, INTA'i research activities serve as
an important resource for private and public extension technicians who
service producers and producer organizations.
2.5     The National Grain Board (JNG), an autonomous agency of S.&GyP,
establishes grading systems and marketing regulations for the grain trade,
administers and manages public grain elevators and storage facilities, and
participates in domestic and foreign trade. JNG was the sole buyer and
exporter of major grains in the mid-1970s until GOA liberalized the grain
trade and shifted emphasis to development of private marketing. JNG
nonetheless is authorized to operate in the domestic market to ensure
adequate domestic supplies and to meet government-to-government
commitments. JNG can also fix support prices for grain, but has generally
limited this activity. GOA is now contemplating a future restructuring of
JNG involving privatization of JNG grain elevators. modernization of its
commercial activities, and streamlining and strengthening of institutional
capacity, for which it has requested IBRD assistance.



- 5 -
2.6     The National Meat Board (JJC) is an autonomous agency of SAGyP with
control and service functions in cattle, pig, and sheep slaughter
industries. It has responsibility for sanitary control of slaughter
facilities, livestock yard-sale supervision, meat classification, export
quality control, live animal and meat statistical and market information,
and industry economic investigation   A slaughterhouse levy of 12 of animal
v#lue provides most of the resources required to run JNC. which receives no
budgetary allocation.
2.7     Argentina is fortunate to have a highly educated and talented cadre
of c'vil servants assigned to agricultural institutions. The change to
civilian authority in December 1983 and the major economic crisis with
which the new government was confronted, however, have caused dislocations
In staffing, eelays in defining priorities for economic and soctoral
development, a serious lack of public investment funds, and limited
resources to attract and provide incentives to public officials. The
latter, unfortunately, has resulted in short tenures in key positions with
associated policy and personnel disruptions.
The Bankina Sector
2.8     In the last 15 years, Argentina's banking sector has been subject
to extreme instability and drastic policy reversals and has operated in an
overall framework of macroeconomic instability. This situation has created
a weakened sector characterized by high real interest rates, large spreads,
and segmentation of credit lines. The sector suffers from low operating
returns due to high administrative costs and weak loan portfolios.
Prudential regulation of the banking system, a responsibility of the
Central Bank, is inadequate in many areas including accounting rules on
accrual of interest, recognition of losses, information disclosure,
supervision of public banks, and the intervention and liquidation of
problem banks. Since 1980, 77 banks and other financial institutions, all
private, have been either intervened or liquidated.
2.9     The Central Bank has the key role in allocating credit within the
bankirng system. It used high reserve requirements and forced investments
to appropriate the equivalent of 66Z of sector deposits as of March 1987.
Much of these funds were then recycled mostly to public banks in the form
of Central Bank rediscount lines for mandated purposes. Since March 1987
the Central Bank has been steadily reducing its rediscount credit lines to
the banking sector. Bank of the Argentine Nation (BRA) has been the
largest net provider of deposit funds to the Central Bank, and its use of
rediscounts has dropped in proportion to the Central Bank's ovez.ll
reduction.
2.10    The Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2923-AR), approved by the
Board on March 29, 1988, has the following ob'ectives: (a) increase
confidence and deposit mobilization; (b) improve the allocation of credit;
and (c) reduce the cost of credit. The proposed Agricultural Credit Project
II supports these efforts by establishing a rediscount facility for the
banking sector independent of the Central Bank. This credit would be
allocated by market demand ani by the efficiency of financial intermediaries
to provide it.



Agricultural Credit
2.11    As of end-1986, commercial banks controlled 76Z of banking sector
assets, down from 822 in 1983. The 158 domestic private banks had the
largest share (332) of commercial bank assets, followed by 25 provincial
banks with a 262 share, and federal government banks with 192. About 1OS
of total banking credit was directed to the agricultural sector in 1986,
down from 13.52 in 1982. BHA has been the single largest lender to the
sector with a share of 19Z in 1986. up from 172 in 1984.
2.12    Financial assistance to the agricultural sector during the past 20
years has mainly been for short-term credit. Madium- and long-term credit
has been dependent on the availability of funds from multilateral financial
entities, chiefly IDB, or derived from suppliers' credit or rollover of
short-term financing. BHA is currently implementing two projects in the
sector, one assisted by the Bank (para. 2.17) and the other, by IDB. The
four-year IDB-assisted project (USS1SO million) provides credit for farm
machinery, livestock investments, fertilizers, and herbicides. The IDB
loan is currently 752 disbursed and, with recent strengthening of farmgate
prices, the project is expected to be completed before its 1989 closing
date. In general, however, there are insufficient resources in the banking
sector to meet the investment needs of agriculture.
Bank of the Araentine Nation (BNA)
2.13    BNA, in addition to being the largest bank in the country, has been
a main channel of credit to the agricultural sector along with provincial
bdanks. It operates nationwide with 562 offices, and has 20 offices abroad.
Its operations are conducted in both local and foreign currencies. As of
June 30, 1987 its outstanding loan portfolio was equivalent to about
US$5,400 million and accounted for about 602 of its total assets. This
portfolio is composed of loans to governmrfnt entities (612), loans to
financial entities (32), and loans to private entities (36?). About 722 of
its outstanding loan portfolio consists of overseas operations primarily
for government entities. The remaining 282 of loans has been granted
locally, with agriculture accounting for 402, industry and commerce 202
each, and other credit operations the remaining 202. GOA has recently
indicated a desire that BHA specialize more on agricultural operations in
the future and reduce participation in lending to other sectors, the
responsibility for which would be assumed by other national specialized
banks. BNA would become the only government bank dealing 'lith the sector.
2.14    BNA has been a relatively efficient and profitable institution.  It
has had profitable operations si$ice 1981 and earned over 72 on its net
worth at end.-1986 after inflation adjustments. While its administrative
costs are high by international standards, averaging 14Z of total deposits
in 1986, this ratio compares favorably with the average for domestic
private banks in Argentina of 22Z. BRA has a staff of 19,400 employees,
down 72 from 1984, and its administrative costs were 7.92 of total average
domestic assets in 1986. flie domestic banking system's high administrative
costs result from high inflation which makes operating costs rise faster
than intermediated resources. The economic uncertainty has caused
extremely short maturities of financial contracts with increased rollover
and administrative burden. BNA is addressing the latter problem with a
program to computerize its entire branch banking system over the next few
years.



2.15    As with all Argentine banks, BNA has experienced a deterioration in
its loan portfolio during the past two years. reflecting poor domestic
economic conditions. BNA's irregular loansl equaled 20.3Z of its domestic
private sector loan portfolio on Juuie 30, 1987, compared to an average
ratio of 16% for domestic private banks and 37Z for provincial banks.
Provisions for bad debts were 6.42 of its domestic private portfolio on the
same date, compared with an average of 4.32 for domestic private banks.
These provisions were sdfficient to cover 32S of irregular loans. Although
many of BNA's arrears ratios are less favorable than the avetages for
private banks, BNA's provisions for loss are relatively larger. The
arrears situation of BNA's governmeut-owned clients is unclear; BNA
refinances them without classifying such loans as arrears becauise they are
unconditionally guaranteed by GOA.
2.16    From a solvency point of view BNA's financial position is
acceptable. GOA is BNA's owner and the guarantor of its public sector
assets, which amount to 60? of its loan portfolio. Domestic private sector
loans in a:rears, less provisions for loan losses, amount to 212 of BNA's
net worth as of end-1986. BNA has a high level of liquidity and its
deposit liabilities are matched by loans of similar maturities. As of
June 30, 1987, BNA's total liabilities were seven times its net worth. A
detailed review of BNA and its financial condition are presented in
Annex 1.
IBRD's Experience in Lending for Agriculture
2.17    Past Bank lending to agriculture has been sporadic because of
periodic economic and sectoral difficulties. In recent years sectoral
lending has been limited to three projects and one sectoral adjustment
loan. Approved in 1967, the Balcarce Livestock Development Project (Ln.
505-AR) was designed to en:ourage adoption of new technology in pasture
production and management and in animal health practices. This project was
imp.emented over the 1968-80 period--a span that saw high rates of
inflation, eztreme shifts in livestock policies, swings in the cattle
cycle, frequent changes in credit policies. and economic policies non-
conducive to sectoral investment. An Agricultural Credit Project (Ln.
1564-AR) was approved in May 1978 to provide medium- and long-term credit
for on-farm investments. This loan was cancelled in 1980 without
disbursement because of: (a) tmfavorable environment for investment due to
high inflation and overvaluation of the local currency, (b) large inflows
of competitive low-cost capital from foreign commercial banks. The ongoing
Grain Storage Project (Ln. 1!21-AR), expanding nationwide storage capacity
and complementary rail and port transportlhandling facilities, contains a
credit component for private investments in grain storage and related
facilities. BNA has successfully implemented this component.
2.18    In April 1986 an Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2675-AR) was
approved to support sectoral adjustments fostering increased agricultural
production and exports. The policy package sought to: (a) reduce export
taxes on agricultural products; (b) implement compensatory measures to
l/ Irregular loans, as defined by the Central Bank, include loans past due
more tha.n nine days, loans to potentially insolvent clients, as well as
loans under legal proceedings, bankruptcy, or liquidation.



8 -
preclude deterioration of fiscal revenues, including introduction of a
federal land tax; and (c) rationalize import tariffs and regulations on
agricultural inputs. In addition, a number of studies are being funded
under the loan and Ldministered through UNDP to improve sectoral planning
and performance. including development of producer-oriented market
intelligence services within JNG and JNC.
2.19    GOA has exceeded reductions in export taxes projected under the
Sector Loan becavuse of deteriorating world commodity prices. However,
while much of the technical basis for the federal land tax has been
established (cadasters, soil classifications), passage of required
legislation has not yet taken place. Quantitative restrictions on imports
of tractors and other agricultural machinery were removed in May 1988. The
surcharge on imports of agricultural chemicals has not been removed, but
will be addressed vithin the context of the general tariff structure under
a proposed Trade Sector Loan II (FY89).
2.20    Other projects affecting agricultural development have been funded
by the Ban4 Group. As described in para. 2.4, SAGyP is a beneficiary of
the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2712-AR) for
US$18.5 million seeking to strengthen GOA's general management of the
economy. In April 1987 the Bank approved a US$125.0 million loan to
support a Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Credit Project (Ln. 2793-AR)
being implemented by BANADE. This US$250.0 million project is financing
working capital and investments in, inter alia, agroindustries, wood
processing, and fishing and fish processing. In June 1987 the Board
approved a US$30.0 million IFC loan to support an agri-business credit line
implemented by Banco Rio, a major commercial bank in Argentina; this line
covers working. capital and investments to modernize and expand port
grain-handling facilities, refrigerated seed silos, cold storage, cheese
factories, dehydration plants, and hide processing facilities. A recently
completed Second Railways Project (Ln. 1677-AR) assisted in rehabilitating
the rail network and upgrading rolling stock and the locomotive fleet,
thereby improving transport of agricultural goods. The Bahia Blanca Port I
Project (Ln. 2805-AR) includes rehabilitation of existing grain storage
infrastructure as a first phase in deep-water port development. The
Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2923-AR) aims to increase deposit
mobilization, improve credit allocation, reduce the cost of credit, and
provide technical assistance in various aspects of bank supervision (para.
2.10).
IIS. THE PROJECT
OriKin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1     The proposed project was prepared by SAGyP with assistance from the
Inter-American Institute of Cooperation for Agriculture (IICA). This
preparation effort was supported by two PPFs. Three Bank preparation
missions visited Argentina in February, April-May, and August-September
1987, the last two jointly conducted with IDB, the proposed cofinincier.
The project was appraised by the Bank in November 1987 with IDB
participation. Bank loan negotiations took place in Washington during
February 16-19, 1988. Mr. Ramon da Bouza led the Argentine delegation.



- 9 -
3.2     The project would be consistent with the Bank's efforts to assist
Argentina to boost agricultural growth, erpand export earnings, and foster
structural adjustment. It would also be consistent with recommendations
made in the most recent CEM2 advocating a moderate increase in investment
with not.-inflationary financing and resource mobilization to complement
broad st.-uctural reforms. The project would aim to increase growth in a
vital sector with underutl1ized potential and substantial importance for
foreign exchange earnings. By modernizing the machinery and adopting newer
technology, Argentine agriculture is expected to become more efficient and
cost-effective. In addition. the development of an apex lending operation
would directly support an important objective of the proposed banking
sector adjustment operation. A further objective of the banking sector
loan is to restrict the growth of Central Bank rediscounts to credit
institutions. The proposed project would channel all its funds at cost
through financial intermediaries at the same time that the Central Bank ls
reducing its rediscounts for the agricultural sector.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
3.3     The project would increase agricultural growth through
modernization of the farm machinery pool, livestock development, and
adoption of cost-effective, efficient technology consistent with growth,
diversification, and soil conservation.  In this context, the project would
provide needed investment capital to the sector. The project would attempt
to draw private and provincial banks into investment lending for the sector
through the proposed apex lending operation.
3.4     To accomplish these objectives the project would include a
nationwide general line of medium- and long-term credit. This would
finance such investments as modern agricultural machinery, on- and off-farm
grain storage facilities, land improvements, orchard establishment,
livestock development, small-scale agro-processing facilities, and short-
term inputs complementary to investments. The project would also include a
monitoring and evaluation component to track the credit flows and to
provide feedback to SAGyP planning units establishing sectoral policies and
priorities.
Pro ect Implementation
3.5     The credit line would be implemented by BNA and by participating
private and provincial banks. BNA would comit loan proceeds over a four-
year period through a rediscounting unit to be established within its
Finance Department. This department would act as liaison between the Bank
and BRA. It would have the functions of a second-tier bank, rediscounting
subloans granted by participating financial intermediaries including BNA in
its additional capacity as first-tier bank. Participating provincial and
private banks, as well as BHA's first-tier branches, would grant subloans
under conditions included in Credit Regulations (Reglamento de Credito). A
draft of such regulations was aRreed at negotiations (Annex 2a). Specific
functions, responsibilities, and modus operandi of BNA's rediscounting
unit, together with administrative and technical support needed for its
efficient operation, were #greed at neaotiations. Confirmation that this
2/ IBRD, ARGENTINA: Economic Recovery and Growth, No. 6467-AR, May 1987.



- 10 -
unit has been duly established would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Prior to signature of subsidiary agreements with participating banks, the
institutional capability of each financial intermediary would be evaluated
by BNA's rediscounting unit on the basis of eligibility criteria agreed at
negotiations (Annex 2b). A draft participation agreement between BNA and a
participating financial intermediary was agreed at negotiations (Annex 2c).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BNA as second-tier bank would
make every effort to enroll other banks as first-tier banks in the lending
scheme proposed. During project preparation and appraisal ten private and
provincial banks were contacted to assess their interest in participation.
Based on these interviews at least five retail banks other than BNA are
expected to participate under the terms envisaged (paras 3.7-3.8, Annex 5).
3.6     SAGyP would implement the monitoring and evaluation component, for
which SAGyP would sign a subsidiary loan agreement with BNA to receive loan
funds. A draft subsidiary loan agreement was reviewed at negotiations and
necessary revisions agreed. Presentation to the Bank of the signed
subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of disbursement for the
component. SAGyP proposes to strengthen its Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
to assume these incremental responsibilities related to the project through
short- and medium-term training of SAGyP staff by consultants. Detailed
cost estimates for this component are presented in Annex 3a, and draft
terms Pf reference for required consulting services are found in Annex 3b.
Lending Terms and Conditions
3.7     Second-Tier.  The Borrower would be BNA, which would assume the
foreign excharge risk of the proposed loan. BNA would on-lend proceeds of
the proposed IBRD and IDB loans in dollar-denominated local currency by
rediscounting 822 of subloan amounts granted by financial intermediaries
(para. 3.13). BNA would charge a variable interest spread to cover its
cost of funds, administrative expenses, credit risk, as well as cross-
currency exchange risk. Given the uncertainty of the precise cross-
currency risk, reflecting the fluctuations of exchange rates and
composition of the basket of currencies in which IBRD and IDB loans are
denominated, the spread for such risk, initially to be set at two
percentage points, would be reviewed every six months to determine if the
margin remains adequate. It was agreed at negotiations that BNA would open
a special Currency Risk Fund by May 31, 1989 into which payments of the
cross-currency exchange risk margin would be placed. This fund would be
administered in accordance with a Currency Risk Regulation, acceptable to
the Bank, to be issued not later than February 28, 1989. The objectives
and management principles of this fund were discussed at negotiations. BNA
plans to produce a draft Currency Risk Regulation by end-July 1988 for
subsequent review with a Bank supervision mission. If the funds in this
account prove insufficient to meet the actual cross-currency obligation of
the Borrower, GOA would compensate BNA for any deficiency. Such cover
would be governed by a Currency Risk Agreement between the Borrower and
GOA. It was agreed at negotiations that such an Agreement would be entered
into by May 31, 1989. GOA's commitment to supply such cover is provided
for in the Guarantee Agreement for the loan.
3.8     First-Tier.  Participating financial intermediaries, including BNA
as a retail bank, would receive US dollar-denominated local currency funds



- iI -
from the second-tier at a cost 2-4 percentage points higher than IBRD's
lending rate (Annex 5). Each first-tier bank would have the flexibility to
tailor spreads on subloans to individual clients and their investments,
taking into account different administrative costs, credit risks, and the
indices chosen to maintain the value of principal. These indices could
include the: (a) official Austral-US dollar exchange rate; (b) general
wholesale prices; (c) general wholesale crop prices; (d) general wholesale
livestock prices; and (e) wholesale crop-livestock prices. A first-tier
bank willing to use (b)-(e) above would be assuming a funding risk, while
final borrowers might be attracted by an alternative which matches a
commodity they produce. It is anticipated that first-tier banks would need
an average spread of about three percentage points, implying a cost of
about 14Z p.a. real interest for project credit. Using alternative (a)
above, this rate would be about two percentage points higher than the one
currently charged by private banks in Argentina using IFC credit lines for
agri-businesses at similar maturities. The two percentage point difference
would be used by BNA to provide for the cross-currency exchange risk (para.
3.7). Schematic presentations of the proposed flow of funds and the
structure of interest rates are given in Annexes 4 and 5.
3.9     Eligibility criteria for subloans specified in the Credit
Regulations would include, inter alia, satisfactory technical, financial,
and environmental feasibility. Subloans would be appraised on the basis of
investment plans with assistance where necessary from private extension
technicians, the cost of which could be capitalized into subloans.
Thresholds for Bank/IDB review and approval of subloans would be specified
in the Credit Regulations (US$1.0 million for individuals and US$2.5
million for cooperatives or pro-.acer associations). Ihe Bank and IDB would
also review the first three subloans made by BNA over US$100,000 equivalent
and the first subloan made by each of the other participating financial
interiediaries over US$100,000 equivalent. Basic parameters specified in
the Credit Regulations, such as BNA intermediation spread minima and maxima
and the set of indices for maintenance of principal value, would be
reviewed every six months.
Proiect Costs and Financing
3.10    Project cost, excluding taxes and duties, is estimated at US$355.5
million equivalent, of which about 20? represents foreign exchange costs.
This total would consist of credit-assisted investments (US$354.0 million)
and a monitoring and evaluation component (US$1.5 million).
3.11     It is expected that the Bank and IDB would jointly finance the
project's credit component. Monitoring and evaluation would be financed
only by the Bank (para. 3.13). Regarding credit, retail banks would
finance about 12.5? of the project (18? of subloan amounts), and sub-
borrowers would finance at least 15? of each subproject and on average 282
of the project. The Bank and IDB would each cover about 30? of total
project costF. The aggregate level of external financing (60?) is
considered justified by the chronic shortage of counterpart funds
available, in part resulting from heavy external debt servicing, and by the
critical need for infusion of investment capital into the banking system.
A condition of loan effectiveness would be the reciprocal effectiveness of
the IDB loan. The financing plan is summarized below:



- 12 -
USS Million     Z
Sub-borrowers a/                99.0       27.8
Participating Banks bl          45.0       12.6
IDB                            105.0       29.6
IBRD                           106.5       30.0
Total             355.5      100.0
a/ Based on historical experience from ongoing IDB credit project where
sub-borrowers have contributed on average 282 of investment financing.
b/ 18.02 of subloans.
Procurement
3.12    Goods, survices, and civil works financed with project credit would
be diverse and procured by a large number of sub-borrowers. Most of these
are expected to be supplied locally. BRA and participating banks would be
responsible for ensuring the competitiveness in price and quality ot goods
and works procured and their suitability for the purposes intended. For
goods and works costing less than US$3.0 million, sub-borrowers would
purchase items in the local market according to established commercial
practices acceptable to the Bank. Records of procurement by sub-borrowers
under such procedures would be reviewed by Bank missions on a random sample
basis.  For goods or works costing US$3.0 million or more, ICB procurement
would be conducted according to Bank guidelines. For the monitoring and
evaluation component, purchases of goods would be limited to office
furniture, three typewriters, one photocopier, three micro-computers, and
two vehicles at an estimated total cost of US$83,000, and would be procured
under local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultant services,
estimated at 14 man-months, would be selected according to Bank guidelines.
All ICB procurement and procurement of goods for the monitoring and
evaluation component would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Disbursements
3.13    Loan proceeds would be disbursed in about eight years, consistent
with the standard disbursement profile for credit projects in the Region.
Disbursements would be made against: (a) 41Z of subloan amounts
rediscounted by BNA; and (b) 1002 of expenditures for monitoring and
evaluation. To enhance the probability of success of the apex lending
operation, 20Z of funds under (a) would be reserved for rediscounts from
participating banks other than BRA. IDB would also disburse against 412 of
subloan amounts (para. 3.7). Separate withdrawal applications for credit
rediscounts compatible with agreed Credit Regulations would be submitted to
IDB and IBRD. If, for whatever reason, one external lender could not honor
a specific withdrawal request, the other could still disburse up to its 41?
level. Only expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to the receipt
by the Bank of a corresponding financing request would be eligible for
reimbursements under the proposed loan. This extension of the Bank's
normal 90-day limit would be justified given that the apex arrangement
would be new and may initially create delays. A Special Account would be



- 13 -
established with an initial deposit equivalent to US$10.5 million. Bank
disbursements to replenish the Special Account would be made on the basis
of statements of expenditure. Relevant documentation in support of such
statements would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by
each retail financial intermediary and made available to Bank review
missions. An estimated schedule of loan disbursement is presented in Annex
6. The final date for approval of subloan proposals would be Hay 31, 1992
and the closing date, June 30, 1996, which is consistent with the standard
profile. Regarding loan repayments, because of the large number of
subloans expected under the project and the potential number of
participating banks, the use of a composite amortization schedule is
impractical. The proposed loan would therefore have a fixed 15-year
maturity including three years of grace.
AccountinR and Audits
3.14    BNA and SAGyP would maintain separate accounts and necessary
supporting documentation to record project expenditures. Financial
statements of BNA and project accounts (including the Special Account),
would be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by external independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank and with terms of reference approved by the Bank. In the case
of BNA, the Public Enterprise Auditor (Siidicatura General de Empresas
P4blicas (SGEP)) is considered indeperndent and is currently acceptable to
the Bank. BNA would annually require all participating first-tier banks to
provide a certification by their independent auditor that the related
subloan disbursements were made by the respective banks in accordance with
the conditions of its participation agreement with BNA. BNA would provide
an annual SGEP-cbrtified opinion for all SOE's presented to the Bank. BNA
would submit these avcounts to the Bank not later than four months after
the end of each fiscal year. SAGyP's monitoring unit would submit to BNA
audited project accounts annually no later than three months after the end
of its fiscal year. The independent audit of the latter would be carried
out by the National Court of Audits (Tribunal de Cuentas de la Nacion).
Reporting
;        3.15    Each financial intermediary, including BNA, would submit semi-
annually to BNA's rediscounting unit a report including: (a) amounts
committed; (b) number and type of subloans granted; (c) subloan
disbursements made; (d) subloan repayments and repayments to BNA; and (e)
amounts in arrears. BNA would consolidate this information and submit not
;        later than September 30 and Harch 31 of each year to the Bank a semi-annual
report on the progress of the project as of June 30 and December 31 of each
year.  SAGyP's monitoring unit would submit to the Bank progress reports
!        not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year.  BNA and SAGyP would
jointly prepare and submit to the Bank a project completion report not
later than six months after the closing date of the proposed loan. The
format and content of progress reports were agreed at negotiations.  Key
*        indicators for tracking project progress are presented in Annex 7.



- 14 -
Financial Analysis of Investment Models
3.16     To analyze the viability of likely investments and proposed
technological improvements and their financial attractiveness to producers,
eight illustrative investment plans have been modeled. These include
machinery upgrading with improved tillage and fertilization, fruit
plantation, dairying, beef and wool production, on- and off-farm grain
storage, and fruit packing and storage. Expected financial costs and
benefits are based on current domestic market prices. Although recovery of
prices from the current low levels is anticipated for most of the
commodities concerned, the modeling exercise conservatively assumes no real
price increases. Under these assumptions, internal rates of return before
financing range between 18Z and 412. Sensitivity tests indicate that the
viability of those models in the lowar range of IRRs, in particular
machinery upgrading for grain production, would be highly vulnerable to
adverse movements in commodity prices or increases in export tax levels.
Details of models analyzed are presented in Annex 8.
Proiect Risks
3.17     Major project risks include:
(a)   Demand Risks.  To assess likely demand for project credit, a
number of surveys were carried out. Specifically, four surveys
were conducted before appraisal, with samples ranging from 140 to
790 persons, to assess investment needs in the sector. At
appraisal 180 BNA clients were interviewed about likely credit
demand under various terms and conditions. The proposed project
size was then determined taking these results into account. A
conservative approach was adopted considering that: (i) samples
of the last survey was representative of only about 50 of BNA's
total agricultural clientele; and (ii) potential demand through
banks other than BNA was not considered.
There is no doubt that the demand for credit may be constrained
by the high cost of the non-subsidized credit offered under the
project (about 14Z p.a. real interest). Demand for investment
credit will also be affected by the confidence prospective
borrowers have in the macroeconomic environment, and more
specifically, in GOA's ability to stabilize the economy. Despite
these uncertainties, the likelihood of project success is
enhanced by: ti) the critical need for capital
improvementstreplacements; (ii) declining soil productivity;
(iii) the extreme scarcity of alternative investment credit in
the banking system for the sector (para. 2.9); (iv) the flexible
credit terms and conditions built into project; and (v) the high
anticipated financial rates of return.
(b)   Participatini Banks' Liquidity Risks.  Legal reserve requirements
and forced investments (purchase of Central Bank non-tradable
securities) resulting from the currently overregulated banking
sector have undermined liquidity levels of financial
intermediaries. The Central Bank has recently lowered reserve
requirements on incremental deposits to only 3Z. If recent



- 15 -
changes in GOA policy succeed in reversing the flight into hard
assets (i.e., remonetizing the economy), there should be a
corresponding reduction in average reserve requirements and
additional liquidity for the banking system.
Environmental Impact
3.18    The proposed investments in modern agricultural equipment and
specific activities would address entrenched problems in Argentine
agriculture such as erosion, breakdown of soil texture, and loss of organic
maLtar and fertility. GOA proposes a sound extension program to complement
the credit program which would stress conservation tillage, terracing,
green manuring, cross-sloping, and contouring. Associated research and
extension efforts are being assisted in part under an IDB-financed project
being implemented by INTA. GOA is also considering another technical
assistance operation to reinforce these activities which it plans to
present for external assistance. While good research has been done,
communication and coordination with farmers are considered weak.    GOA is
aware of the problem and has already begun an information program to launch
its soil conservation effort. INTA has also recently signed an agreement
with a foreign agricultural university to obtain technical assistance in
extension and transfer of technology, adaptation of promising experimental
results, and further studies in soil conservation.
IV.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1      The following agreements were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  Appropriate credit regulations (para. 3.5);
(b)  Specific functions, responsibilities, and modus operandi of BNA's
re-discounting unit and needed administrative and technical
support (para. 3.5);
(c)  Eligibility criteria for participating financial intermediaries
(para. 3.5);
(d)  Participation agreement between BNA and a participating financial
intermediary (para. 3.5);
(e)  That BNA as second-tier bank would make every effort to enroll
other banks as first-tier banks in the lending scheme proposed
(para. 3.5);
(f)  Subsidiary loan agreement between BNA and SAGyP for the monitoring
and evaluation component (para. 3.6);
(g)  Currency Risk Fund to be established by Hay 31, 1989 (para. 3.7);
(h)  Currency Risk Regulation to be finalized by February 28, 1989
(para. 3.7);
(i)  Currency Risk Agreement to be signed by May 31, 1989 (para. 3.7);
and



- 16 -
(j) Content and format of progress reports (para. 3.15).
4.2      Conditions of loan effectiveness would bet
(a) Confirmation that BNA's rediscounting unit has been established
(para. 3.5); and
(b) Reciprocal effectiveness of the IDB loan (para. 3.11).
4.3      A condition of disbursement for the monitoring and evaluation
component would be presentation to the Bank of the signed subsidiary loan
agreement between BNA and SAGyP (para. 3.6).
4.4      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$106.5 million on standard terms for Argentina.
May 17, 1988.



- 17 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 8
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL C-EDIT PROTECT II
Bank of the Argentine Nation (BNA)
Legal Status and Obiectives
1.       BNA is an autonomous official commercial bank operating under the
legal framework of the laws regulating the Argentine financial system. It
was created in 1891 under Law No. 2831 dated October 15 of that year. Its
revised by-laws were approved in June 1978 by Law No. 21799. As per its
by-laws, BNA's main objectives are: (a) support agricultural production
and promote its efficient evolution; (b) facilitate the settlement of rural
farmers, and subject to priorities established under available lines of
credit, facilitate their rights to land ownership; (c) finance efficient
processing of agricultural outputs and their marketing at all levels of
processing; (d) promote and support external trade, particularly export of
goods, services and local technology, exerting all efforts to promote its
growth; (e) take care of all needs of trade, industry, service and other
sectors of the economy; and (f) promote a balanced regional development.
For the fulfillment of these objectives, BNA was enabled to operate locally
and internationally, and in addition to all standard banking activities it
is empowered to issue securities and to enter into borrowing agreements in
local and in foreign currency.
Operations
2.       As of December 31, 1986, BNA was operating through 562 branches,
including its headquarters in Buenos Aires and 20 offices overseas. In
addition, it has eight contact (representatives) offices overseas in cities
where no branch offices are yet established. During 1986 BNA represented
official and private banks of Argentina in negotiations with the Southern
Cone countries in debt to Argentine banks.
3.       During the decade 1977-86, BNA has maintained its position as the
largest bank in the domestic banking market. BNA's share of the system's
total lending remained stable at about 1OZ over the period, while its share
of total deposits increased from 14Z to 172 (see Table 1). During 1984-86
BNA's domestic loan portfolio as a share of its total loan portfolio
increased from 19Z to 28Z (see Table 6). As of December 31, 1986 domestic
loans including accrued interest amounted to the equivalent of US$1,556.6
million.
4.       As a response to local economic conditions, most of BNA's domestic
lending has been increasingly of a short-term nature.  Average turn-over of
total domestic lending operations was almost six times/year in 1983 and
about 13 times/year in 1986. This is also reflected in the composition of
outstanding loan balances at the end of calendar years 1983 and 1986 where



- 18 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
loans with maturities shorter than one year accounted for 742 and 962 of
total domestic loan portfolio, respectively. The preponderance of short-
term lending is for commercial operations of 15 days or less.
5.       Overseas lending operations are longer-term and constitute the
majority of BNA's overall lending. About 402 of this amount had a maturity
of less than one year with 202 maturing in more than six years. As of
December 31, 1986, the outstanding balances of foreign lending at
end-of-year exchange rates were equivalent to about US$4,103 million. The
share of overseas lending in BNA's total loan portfolio has declined in
recent years. In addition to short-term trade financing, most of these
operations involved longer-term financing associated with rescheduling of
Argentine government agencies' foreign debts.
6.       As of June 30, 1987, BNA had 19,400 permanent staff members (7Z
less than in 1984), of which close to 2,000 were in management positions
(about 1,050 at headquarters). About 30Z of the staff (including managers)
were stationed at headquarters in Buenos Aires. The remaining 70X of the
staff were working at the branch offices (an average of 24 staff members
per branch office). Although BNA appears over-staffed, rigid public sector
regulations on job stability have limited BNA to following a policy of
attrition. About 852 of the staff has been on duty for over five years,
despite salary levels that are based on public-service salary structure and
are below the levels of salaries paid by the private banks (average cost
per employee/month as of June 30, 1987 was equ._valent to US$700).
7.       Training activities are intensive and appear adequate to the size
of BNA operations. Most training is given through its own training
institute. Over 2,000 employees per year participated in training courses
during the 1984-86 period, and an average of 12,600 hours/year were devoted
to training activities. Most training is addressed to updating the staff
skills in management as well as financial and banking aspects, including
electronic data processing.
Organization and Management
8.       The current organization structure of BNA (Annex 1, Chart 1)
includes its Board of Directors, a general manager, 5 deputy general
managers, 16 departmental managers, and over 500 branch managers. The
Board of Directors has one president (chairman of the Board), one vice-
president, and 10 directors. All members of the Board are appointed by the
Executive Power of the Federal Government for a four-year period, and their
re-appointment for a second term is allowed. The Central Management
level--composed of the general manager, deputy general managers, and
departmental managers--is appointed by the Board of Directors. Policy
decisions are made by the Board of Directors and implemented by the general
manager and his in-line managers. Branch management is quite independent,
but compliance with procedures developed by central management are closely
monitored. Among the domestic branches there are some with regional
responsibilities.



- 19 -                ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 8
Lending Procedures
9.       BNA's lending procedures, which have been applied under the Grain
Storage Project (Ln. 1521-AR), are acceptable for the purposes of the
proposed project. Branch managers are allowed to authorize loans and
financial transactions up to limits (threstolds) apprcved by central
management and revised from time to time. Current thresholds are
considered low. Regional managers may approve transactions up to US$75,000
equivalent; and other branch managers, up to US$63,000 equivalent. Central
managers have larger approval thresholds, ranging from about US$90,000
equivalent for departmental managers to about US$140,000 for the general
manager.
10.      First-time clients are required to submit documentation to
demo3nstrate their creditworthiness. Clients with established credit
require simple verification of their updated financial condition. Loan
applications are accompanied by technical justification and documentation
supporting the application. After technical scrutiny, the loan is approved
by the branch manager or sent for approval by the regional or the central
manager as required by the approval thresholds. Disbursement is authorized
upon submission of satisfactory guarantee, which could be in the form of
collateral (mortgage/fixed assets) or plain signature of notes (or
submission of third-party notes). Loans may be granted with or without
maintenance-of-value clauses. Interest rates under ths former scheme are
determined by the cost of funds, and under the second scheme are usually
variable (adjusted monthly) and equal to the market reate, or in some cases
slightly lower than market rate if allowed by the cost of funds.
Maintenance-of-value adjustments are computed and recorded monthly in the
borrower's loan account.
Agricultural Credit
11.      BNA uses its ezt-nsive system of domestic branch offices to
service the needs of the agriculture sector. Since 1973 it has also
maintained a parallel staff group of technical specialists (agronomists) to
review loan requests originated at the branch office level. About 30
branches with the most agricultural credit operations have an agronomist
assigned for this purpose. These professionals report to one of six zone
coordinators for administrative purposes and to the appraisal division of
the central credit department for technical matters. There is also a unit
of six technical advisors assigned to the head office for quality control
and review of the larger projects. Agronomists are responsible for making
appraisal and supervision field visits for loan requests above US$10,000.
Below this level BNA employs consultant agronomists from a national pool of
300 for field visits to those clients closest to them. Staff agronomists
are also responsible for advising clients on their farm plans, coordinating
with sector interest groups, and promoting BNA's credit programs for the
sector.
12.      BNA has been supporting the agricultural sector since inception.
During the past 20 years, it was almost the only source for medium- and



- 20 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 8
long-term financing. During this period BNA managed long-term funds made
available by the GOA through borrowings from multilateral financial
entities, mainly TDB and the Bank, and from bilateral agencies, mainly
USAID. These funds were used to finance investments worth about
US$630 million, of which about US$240 million equivalent was contributed by
BNA from its own resources. As of March 31, 1986 BNA's share of total
banking sector loans outstanding to the agricultural sector amounted to
192.
13.      BNA's portfolio of loans to the sector has increased significantly
in absolute terms from US$184 million equivalent in 1983 to US$339 million
equivalent in 1986. The sector's share of BNA's total domestic loan
portfolio has also increased from 29Z in 1983 to 39Z in 1986 (Table 2). On
average about 83Z of its agricultural loan portfolio over this period
financed current expenditures for farm inputs. An additional 9Z on average
financed tractors and other farm machinery. Despite the longer-term
financing previously provided by GOA and international development
institutions, BNA's average maturity of loans for agriculture was only five
months in 1986.
Accounting and Auditing
14.      Current accounting practices in BNA are acceptable for the
proposed project. Accounting procedures and records are detailed and
cumbersome due to the nature and variety of its operations. Accrued basis
of accounting is used. Each branch office does its own accounting.
Accounts consolidation at headquarters is done monthly. Due to the
hyperinflation prevailing dur.ing the last decade, inflation accounting
procedures were established beginning in 1984. Accounts are adjusted for
inflation on a monthly basis to reflect changes in wholesale prices.
Accounts of branch offices overseas are translated into local currency at
exchanges rates prevailing at end of each month. Gains or losses due to
inflation adjustments and from currency translation are reflected in the
income statements. The switch to inflrtion accounting makes comparison of
financial statements prior to 1984 difficult.
15.      BNA uses a central computer system for consolidating accounts and
providing basic management information. However, most accounting at the
branch level and much of the central office accounting analysis are still
done by hand. A cost accounting system has yet to be developed as
management does not operate under private sector incentives. Never:heless,
BNA is striving to improve its efficiency by developing its computer
capabilities. In close cooperation with its external auditors and IBM, BNA
is implementing a program to computerize all its branch network. A pilot
study to computerize three branches has been completed successfully, and
BNA plans to convert the others gradually as it gains experience. IBRD and
IDB would require BNA under the proposed project to provide financial and
operational information on subloans that is not easily available from its
present computer system. BNA intends to purchase a micro-computer and
software for the exclusive use of the apex unit so it can provide this
information.



-21 -                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
16.      Internal auditing is conducted by the general auditor (internal)
who reports directly to the general manager. He is assisted by two deputy
departmentAl managers in charge of two units: regional and specialized
audits. Under the former, internal auditors make sure that branch offices
are carrying out operations according to procedures set by central
management. Under the latter, specialized staff make sure that internal
control procedures are adenuae e ad that compliance with institutional
policies is adequate. Overall Internal control procedures appear
satisfactory.
17.      F%ternal auditing is performed by the Public Enterprise Auditor
(SGEP) that appoints a full-time resident auditor for this purpose. Since
1984 SGEP has relied primarily on private audit firmsl to conduct the audit
of domestic operations and of the consolidation of the private audits of
BNA's foreign branches. SGEP's resident auditor coordinates and supervises
the work of the private firms and provides a quarterly opinion in
accordance with central bank regulations as well as an annual opinion based
on generally accepted accounting principles. All have been issued within
eight weeks of closing, and the annual audits have been unqualified, except
for a minor exception concerning an inflation adjustment instructed by the
Central Bank in June 1985 that resulted in a minor undervaluation of assets
and equity.
18.      The Pank has found these audit arrangements acceptable for
previous operations with BNA, and the proposed project would also use them.
SGEP's audit of SOEs would follow a new procedure, as BNA would be acting
as apex institution above other participating financial intermediaries.
BNA will require annually that each participating bank provide
certification by their independent auditor that the related subloan
disbursements were mada in accordance with the conditions in ita
participatory agreement with BNA. BNA would provide a separate SGEP-
certified opinion for all SOE's presented to the Bank. Audited project
accounts and BNA's consolidated financial statements would have to be
submitted to the Bank no latter than April 30 of each of the years in which
disbursements of Bank funds are still being made.
Financial Position
13.      BNA's total assets have grown about 8Z p.a. in real terms
(Table 5) over the January 1, 1985 to June 30, 1987 period. High domestic
reserve requirements made interbank transaction balances, which are
primarily Central Bank reserve accounts, grow at a compounded rate of 282
p.a., and have limited the growth of BNA's domestic loan portfolio to a
1/ The three firms are currently Harteneck Lopez (local representative of
Coopers and Lybrand), Gonzalez-Fischer, and Bertora y Asociados.



- 22 -                 ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 8
compound rate of 4Z p.a. While its total domestic assets have remained
about equal to foreign assets (Table 6), their composition is strikingly
different. As shown in Table 7, at end-1986 BNA's domestic loan portfolio
made up only 34Z of domestic assets, up from 29.71 in 1984. On the other
hand, its foreign loan portfolio makes up 87.9Z of its foreign assets.
About 122 of domestic liabilities are to Government agencies or companies
and 172 to the Central Bank.  The latter involve special c.edit lines for
Government companies and foreign exchange advances for clients.
20.      As of June 30, 1987 about 15Z of domestic branch assets were
denominated in foreign exchange, compared with 172 of liabilities and
capital. The uncovered difference amounted to US$100 million equivalent.
An additional 4! of liabilities and capital are represented by uncovered
Central Bank advances of foreign exchange totaling about US$200 million
equivalent. BNA's foreign branches operate only in foreign exchange.
21.      Almost all of BNA's fixed assets are domestic and make up 10  of
total domestic assets and 5.1! of consolidated assets.  Fixed assets have
been revalued according to the wholesale price index, and it is hard to say
that they are currently overvalued relative to market. Wholesale prices
have been well below the level of retail prices, and the construction price
index has been higher than the wholesale price index since August 1986.
The dollar-equivalent value of BNA's fixed assets was US$455 million at
end-1986, or US$0.8 million per branch office, which does not seem
unreasonable considering the high quality standards of construction
preferred by BNA. As a sensitivity test, if BNA's fixed assets were
overvalued by 25!, they would be equal to 10 of its net worth.
Portfolio Quality
22.      On June 30, 1987, ENA's total loan portfolio net of provisions
amounted to US$5.35 billion equivalent. About 61S of this total consisted
of loans to Government agencies or companies, which are totally and
unconditionally guaranteed by the Ministry of Finance. BNA does not appear
to have centralized monitoring of arrears that develop on this portion of
its portfolio. Such arrears are often rescheduled, and BNA, in accordxa.ce
with Central Bank regulations, does not provision for possible losses on
GOA-guaranteed loans. About 72! of BNA's loan portfolio is booked through
its foreign branches in foreign currency. BNA must account for these loans
using the banking reguiations in the country where the branch office is
located. Almost 742 of its foreign branch loans have been made to GOA
agencies or companies, often to refinance their foreign debts. If foreign
banks are required by their own banking regulations to provision against
loans made to Argentina, BNA branches in the same countries may be required
to do the same. Though BNA's independent auditors currently are not aware
of any branches that will be required to provision against these loans,
such an occurrence might cause BNA to recognize substantial losses.
23.      The remainder of BNA's foreign branch loan portfolio, amounting to
about 262 of the total, is made to foreign banks, Argentine private
companies, and other South American sovereign clients. BNA reports arrears
equal to 1.8! of this portfolio compared to loan loss provisions of 4! as
of June 30, 1987. Reported arrears do not include amounts rescheduled and
current as of this date.



- 23 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
24.      About US$1.4 billion equivalent, or up 282 of BNA's total loan
portfolio, is held by its domestic branch system.  An analysis of the
arrears situation for the 65Z of this portfolio outstanding to the
non-financial private sector is provided in Table 9.  Loans in bankruptcy,
legal action, or with risk of insolvency made up 1.9Z of this portfolio on
Decemnber 31, 1985 and 3.5% on June 30, 1987.  This compares favorably to an
average ratio of 92 for the domestically-owned private banking system.2 If,
those loans in arrears more than 10 days are included, BNA's loans in
arrears increase from 1.82 on December 31, 1985 to 20.3Z on June 30, 1987,
compared to an average of 162 for private domestic banks and 372 for
provincial banks. If rescheduled loans are included, arrears for BNA's
domestic private sector loans as of June 30, 1987 increase to 23.92,
coz.pared with an average of 212 for domestic private banks and 43Z for
provincial banks. Provisions for bad debts were 6.42 of BNA's private
sector portfolio as of June 30, 1987, compared with an average of 4.3Z for
domestic banks.3 These provisions were sufficient to almost cover loans in
ba-kruptcy, legal action, risk of insolvency, and rescheduling, assuming no
recoveries from these loans though 522 of irregular loans are covered by
preferred collateral. Provisions equaled 27Z of all loans in arrears more
than ten days no matter what their status.
25.      Loans outstanding to its fifty largest domestic clients amount to
80Z of BNA's net worth as of June 30, 1987. Its top five clients are all
Government companies, which together have loans outstanding equal to 332 of
BNA's net worth. The remaining 45 clients are mostly private sector with
none having loan exposure higher than 3Z of BNA'i, net worth. About 802 of
the loan portfolio of this group is covered by preferred collateral.
Additionally, BNA has provided contingent guarantees for its clients which
are customarily covered by counter guarantees in the form of pledged
collateral assets or government guarantees. Outstanding contingent
guarantees for its fifty largest clients equaled 1002 of its net worth and
were fully counter-guaranteed.
26.      As is the case with other banks in Argentina, BNA is exper!encing
a deteriorating trend in the arrears position of its domestic loan
portfolio. Although BNA's irregular loans as a percent of total portfolio
are a little higher than the average for private domestic banks, BNA's
provisions are relatively larger. From a solvency point of view BNA's
financial position seems strong. As shown in Table 4, total domestic loan
portfolio in arrears minus its loan loss reserve amounted to only 21.0Z of
net worth as of December 31, 1986. Balance sheet leverage is low with
total debt equal to seven times net worth. BNA's liquidity is high with
short-term assets double short-term liabilities. As of June 30, 1987 BNA
had no need to use Central Bank re-discount facilities to provide
liquidity.
2/ Data as of November 30, 1986 as provided in Banking Sector Adjustment
Loan July 1987 Bank Mission BTO Report.
3/ Data as of November 30, 1986 as provided in Ibid.



- 24 -                  ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 8
Financial Performance
27.      BNA has beer in a net income position since 1981.  Selected
financial indicators (Table 4) computed for the years 1985-86 to analyze
its performance in its local operations md in its consolidated results
(domestic and overseas) show a satisfactory financial performance. Table 5
provides summarized financial statements for the years 1984-86 and as of
June 30, 1987, restated to show accounts in constant local currency as of
June 30, 1987. Revenues from lending operations were sufficient to cover:
(a) the costs of funds; (b) provisions for bad debt; and (c) administrative
expenses. The relative size of BNA*s provisions for loan losses seem
appropriate, having risen at a faster pace than BNA's loans in arrears.
Net inflation adjustments have been consistently negative, therefore
reducing BNA's reported net income.
28.      Net return on assets has dropped from 1.3? in 1985 to 0.9Z in
1986, but remains healthy. This return converts to a net return on equity
of 10.82 and 7.1? in the same years.  Although BNA's opera&.L.g spread, the
difference between its cost of borrowing and its return on earning assets,
increased from 3.6Z in 1985 to 4? in 1986, profitability suffered from an
increase in administrative costs, which grew from 2.62 of total assets to
3.4Z during the period. This increase in administrative costs resulted
from a catch-up in wages during 1986 to compensate for a drop in wages in
real terms which occurred during 1985 (Table 5).
29.      The quality of flnancial revenues in the Argentine domestic
banking sector is suspect due to the general practice of accruing interest
on loans in arrears or rescheduled. BNA's accrued interest on such loans
in domestic currency equals 5.8? of domestic financial income and 93? of
consolidated net income. Though most of these accruals will probably be
collected, provisions for bad debts would cover them by 113?.



-25 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
BNA Share of Domestic BankinR Market
Year                 Lending                  Deposits
(Z Share)                (2 Share)
1977                   10.2                      13.9
1978                    9.9                      12.5
1979                    8.6                      101
1980                   11.5                      12.6
1981                   11.4                      11.9
1982                   10.7                      18.0
1983                   10.3                      14.5
1984                    9.6                      12.7
1985                   11.4                      22.0
1986                   10.1                      17.0
Source: Central Bank, Estado de Entidades Financieras, as quoted in BNA
annual report for 1986.



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
ONA'. Domestic Lendina Operations
(Expressed in US$ Million Equivalont) !/
Loans Outstandina at end of Year - Stock
1988      X         1984      X         1985       X         1986        %
Agriculture                  184.2    29.1        128.4    81.0       194.4    26.0        839.2     89.2
Indus'.ry                    162.4    26.7        109.6    26.6       247.8    J8.1        171.2     19.8
Trado                         83.6    18.2         ".1    16.0         76.6    10.1         98.2     11.4
Construction                  20.0      8.2         4.8     1.2        48.2      5.8        20.7      2.4
Services aI                   64.2    10.2        B8.8      8.8        74.6    10.0         41.2      4.8
Energy                        26.4      4.2        11.5     2.8         7.1      9.6         4.0      0.6
Mining                         2.4      0.4         0.6     0.7         6.0      6.7         1.8      0.2
Othor c/d/                    89.4   14.1          56.7    18.7       100.9    18.5        188.4     21.8
Total                   682.6  100.0         418.8  100.0        748.5   114.7        864.7    100.0
Aariculturo Loans Outstanding  - Broakdown by end use 1983-1986
1988      %         1984                           X 1986  U  1986       X
Current Costs                152.2   82.6          90.4   77.4        177.6    91.3        267.4     78.8
Improvements                   6.6      8.8         6.6     6.1         5.8      2.7         8.9      2.8
Tractors                       6.7      8.6         8.9     6.9         4.1      2.1        28.5      7.8
Implements and Vohielea        6.4      8.6         5.6     4.4         2.4      1.2        27.4      8.1
Land Aequisition               8.4      1.8         8.8     8.0         1.1       .6          .8       .1
Storage Facilities               .1      .1          .1      .1           .1      .1          .1       .1
Other                          8.8      4.8         4.1     8.2         8.9      2.0         8.7      2.8
Total                   184.2   100.0        128.4   100.0       194.4   100.0        889.2    100.0
a/ Exchange rates (A per US81.00): 198 = 0.02827; 1984 a 0.17881; 1986 m 0.801; 1988 = 1.269.
b/ Includes loans to financial institutions.
c/ Includes very short-term financial transactions (i.e. purchase of drafts, current account overdrafts).
/ Includes transactions explained in g/ above, amounts due and not paid within 10 days, rescheduled loans,
and loans In arroears.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Tabl- B
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Agriculture Loans Outstanding for 1986
Breakdown by End Us and Type of Forming
(Exproessd In USS Million Eqdivalont)
Mixed
CrOD       Livestock       F rmino       Foretry      Total
Current Costs                164.4         60.6           60.6          1.9          267.4
Improvements                    .4          8.8             .2         --              8.9
Tractors                      28.0           .5            8.0         --             26.5
Impiements and Vehicles       21.8           .1            5.9         --             27.4
Land Acquisition                 .1        --               .2         --               .
Storage Facilities            --             .1           --           --               .1
Other                          6.5          1.4             .76        --              8.7
Total                   215.7         60.9           60.8          1.9          889.2



- 28 -
ANNiEX 1
Tablo 4
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
BNA - Performance Indicators 
DomesticO  rations         Consolidated
12/a1/86 12/31/86   12/31/8S   12/18
Solvency
Loans In Arrears/Net Worth ?j V       (X)      14.8        21.0       NA         NA
Fixed Assets/Net Worth                (X)      44.0        40.0       44.0       41.0
Debt to Equity Ratio              (times)        3.4        3.2        7.4        7.1
Liquidity
Liquidity Ratio t/                (times)       1.6         1.8        2.8        2.0
Acid Test Ratio                   (times)        1.2        1.4        1.1        0.8
Asset Quality 3/
Loans In Arrears/Loan Portfolio       (X)      21.4        27.0       NA         NA
Provisions/High Risk Arrears 6/       (X)      62.0        68.0       NA         NA
Provisions/Loans in Arrears           (U)      12.5        14.8       NA         NA
Arrears on Interest/Loan Portfolio   (U)        4.0         6.4       NA         NA
Profitability 7]
Not Return on Equity                  (M)      NA          NA         10.8        7.1
Operating Spread 4                    (N)      NA          NA          3.6        4.0
Return on Assets (Net)                (X)        1.9        1.0        1.3        0.9
Efficiency
Loan Flow per Employee (AxlO8)                  0.2         0.6       NA         NA
Administrative Cost/Total Assets 7/  (1)        4.9         6.3        2.6        3.4
sJ The ratios provided below are based on data In analytical balance sheets and Income
statements In curront Australes which differ from the Information provided in
Table 5.
V   Refers to BNAbs private soctor portfolio.
/  Includes short-term loans, and deposits on inter-bank transactions.
1 Revenue from earnings assets divided by average earning assets less cost of borrowed
funds divided by average borrowed funds.
i/  High risk arrears are defined as loans in rescheduling, with risk of insolvency,
Judicial action or liquidation.
O/  All categories of loans in arrears more than nine days less provisions.
7]  Based on Tablo 5 figures.



-29                                    T AblE 
ARCENTINA
ACRICULTIRAL CREDIT PROJECT II
ONA - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fiscal Years Ended Docmber 81 196411966/1986
an-d an of June M. 197
(in Australe million) p/
BALANCE SHEET
Assets                                        1984         19,16        191      Jun- 80  1987
Cash and Bank Deposits                       1,591.5      8,216.8      2,217.;      1,812.9
Public Securities                              158.2        224.8        877.7        418.0
Interbank Transactions _J                    1,787.2      1,8)1.6      2,758.5      3,862.6
Provision for Locsse                             -            -           (e.1)         (6.7)
Loans including Accrued Interest             8,868.8      9,584.8    16,618.6       9,819.5
Provisions for Bad Debts                      (122.8)      (169.6)       (147.7)      (189.0)
Investments                                      6.9          6.7          7.9          8.9
Miscellaneous Credit.                           88.8         84.0         41.9         48.8
Provisions for Bad Debt.                        (0.1)        (062)         (1.4)        (1.7)
Fixed Assests e /                              964.2        831.6        815.0        928.8
Other Asaests                                   ao.9         88.1         87.2         41.4
Intangible Ases t                                8.1          2.6          2.8          2.4
Clooring Accounts fy                            89.1          2.0          8.1          8.8
Total Assets                           18.864.8    166a6.6    161.13.5    16.251.0
Liabilities
Deposits s/                                  4,795.0      6,888.6      6,878.2      6,200.6
Borrowings                                   6,465.5      6,671.0      7,440.2      7,625.7
Other Liabilities                               64.8         96.1        182.1         62.6
Provisions                                      29.8         88.8          8.2          7.0
Clearing Accounts                              1 /.7        109.4        162.4        162.8
Total Liabilities to Third Parties     11,456.8    18,801.4    14,186.1    14,067.8
Equity
Capital                                          7.2         41.8        208.6        275.0
Reevalustion of Equity Accounts              1,680.9      1,608.2      1,476.5      1,588.6
Rotained Earnings                              106.0        112.8        184.7        258.1
Undistributed Earnings                         _6.4         206.8        180.1         81.6
Total Liabilitios plus Equity          13.854.0     16.6e5.6     16.16.6     16,251.6
INCOME STATEMENT
Financial Revenues                           8,206.9      8,o66.2      2,998.0      1,764.2
Financial Expenses                          (2,229.2)    (2,878.6)    (2,289.9)    (1,858.9
Provision for Bad Debt.                        (88.6)       (76.1)       (73.4)        (72.6)
Revonue from Service Chargm                    184.5        161.1        177.8         98.6
Expense  Due to Service Chargo                 (11.8)       (12.6)       (17.7)         (7.6)
Gains (loscs) from Revaluation of
Intermediation Funds                       (478.7)      (190.4)      (121.8)        (90.8)
Administrative Exp nses                       (455.7)      (411.6)       (547.7)      (807.2)
Net OGins (logss) on Financial Operatlons        9.8        152.7        174.8         26.6
Miscellaneous Income                            62.2         86.5         60.2         17.2
Miscellaneous Expense.                         (98.6)       (41.7)       (20.0)         (560)
Contributions to National Treaoury               -           68.8         69.1          -
Gains (losse) on Revaluation of
Miscellaneous Accounts                      128.6         48.4         16.1          9.0
Gains (losse) from Revaluation of
Accounts Overeas                              8.4         78.6         (4.2)        88.7
Net Income (lo*s) Before Proflt Taxes          100.5        204.1        141.7         81.4
Profit Taxes (c6.)                                           (2.8)        _L-W           (.e)
Not Income (loss)                               98.2        201.8        141.6         86.8
E   Restated at June 30,1987 value of Austral by revalustion of account. on the basis of
wholesale price Indice.
y  Adjusted by correction factor (desaglo) instructed by Central Bank's Circular  " 702.
SJ  Includes legal reserve requirements.
3l  Includes Central Bank deposits.
V Not of accumulated depreciation.
Inter-branch clearing account.
at Includes de   d d   i l       A rr t



ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
BNA - CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
Local Operations vs. Foreign Operations
(Expressed as X of Consolidated Accounts)
LOCAL                            OVERSEAS                   As of June 30, 1987
--------------------------         --------------------------        -------------.---------
1984    1986     1988              1984    1986      1986              Local    Overseas
ASSETS
Cash and Bank deposits           97.8    98.8    98.8                 2.2      1.7      1.4              96.3          3.7
Public Securities                46.tl   36.8    89.8                54.2    68.2    60.2                40.4        69.6
Intorbank Transactions           76.1    87.7    74.7                23.9    32.3    25.3               81.3         18.7
Loan portfolio                   19.4    23.1    27.6                80.6    76.9    72.5               27.3         72.7
Investments                      99.0    98.7    97.1                 1.0      8.8      2.9             98.6           3.4
Miscellaneous crodits            54.1    36.3    72.8                45.9    68.7    27.2                70.1        29.9
Fixed assets                     97.9    97.6    97.4                 2.1      2.4      2.6             97.7           2.3
Other assets                     98.3    96.1    93.0                 8.7      3.9      7.0             88.8         11.2
TOTAL                            42.7    48.2    49.5                67.8    61.8    50.6                67.2        42.8        0
LIABILITIES
Deposits                         50.6    66.6    66.8                49.4    38.4    83.7               65.3         84.7
Interbank transactions           24.8    28.1    26.2                76.2    76.9    73.8               37.3         62.7
Other liabilities                74.9    47.0    95.0                26.1    63.0       5.0             89.0         11.1
Provisions                       96.6    85.6    42.5                 8.4    14.5    57.6               81.4         68.6
Other liabilities               100.0   100.0    71.8                  -        -     28.7              80.9         19.2
Sub-total                    38.7    46.8    45.9                63.8    54.2    64.1               50.3         49.7
EQUITY                          100.0   100.0   100.0                  -        -       -              100.0           -
LOAN PORTFOLIO
Public Sector                     8.1    12.6    14.2                91.9    87.4    85.8               12.1         87.9
Financial Soctor                 27.0    49.4    48.7                73.0    50.6    53.3               71.8         28.2
Private Sector                   39.4    44.8    61.7                80.7    65.2    48.3               60.3         49.7
Total                        19.7    24.2    27.8                80.3    76.8    72.2               27.6         72.4
Provision for uncollectables                       50.0                               50.0              69.7         40.3
SOURCE: Annual Reports



ARGENTINA
ACRICULTRtAL CREDIT PROJECT 11
BNA - CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SEET AS OF DECEMBER 81
Local Operations vs. Foreign Operstions
(Accounts expressed as X of total asset.)
-----1984                    -                      ----                      1988
Local   Overase Total              Laocal   Ovrsea TOt I             Locai   Overse  Total
ASSETS
Cash and bank deposits                    27.2     9.5      11.9             41.9      0.7    20.5              27.4     0.4    18.8
Public securitIe_                          1.2      1.1      1.1              1.1      1.6      1.4              1.9     2.8      2.8
Intorbank Transactlons                    23.8     6.6      18.4             16.4      7.8    11.7             26.8      6.5    17.1
Loan portfolio                            29.7    92.8      06.5             29.6    89.5    66.4               84.9    67.9    61.2
Investment.                                9.1                                0.1                               9.1
Miscellaneous credit                       6.4     0.2       0.8              6.8      6.6     0.4              0.4      9.1      6.8
Fixed asset4                              16.6     0.8       7.2             16.8      6.2     5.8              10.0     6.8      5.1
Other assets                               0.6               6.2              6.4              9.2              6.4               9.2
Intangible asset.
Clearing account.                          0.7               6.8
TOTAL                                    160.0   156.9    166.6             1616.9   in.9   1ee.6              166.9.0    16.0   16.0
LIBILITIES
Deposit.                                  42.8    81.1      86.9             00.9    20.8    44.0              53.6    26.8    89.5
Borrowings                                27.9    68.8      48.4             20.4    68.2    42.6              24.4    07.4    40.1
Other llabiltles                           6.8     0.2       0.6              0.6     6.6      0.6              1.6              9.6
Provisions                                 6.5               6.2              6.4              0.2
Clearing account.                          1.8               0.8              1.5              6.7              2.8               1.1
Sub-total                             78.4    96.1      86.0             88.6    92.2    68.6               61.8    98.9    67.6
Equity                                                      14.2                              12.6                               12.4
TOTAL                                                     1is.0                              16.0                               16.9
Total Asset  (A million)                 562.7   760.5   1818.2            8451.4  8714.6  71t6.9             6768.8  5680.S 11644.8
Total Asset. (USS million)              8148.6  4192.7   7886.8            4865.9  4687.8  6946.2            4676.1  4675.8  9246.6
Exch. Rate US81.6a (end of year)         0.179   *.179                      *.861   0.861   0.601             1.2S9   1.269   1.259
Agricultural Credit * (Balanes):
As X of local loan portfolio           18.8                               15.6                              21.@
As X of totel loen portfolio                              2.7                               8.6                                6.O
*Includes Forestry
SOURCE: SA Annual Rort.                                                                                                                     1



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
BNA - Consolidetod Income Statements
Local ODerations v- Fortsin Operations
(Expressed as l of Main Accounts)
L 0 C A L                          0 V E R S E A S
1986         1986                   1986         1986
Financial Revonues                          768.6        79.6                     23.4        20.5
Financial Expense                           74.6         77.3                     26.6        22.7
Provisions for bad debts                    84.8         85.1                     16.2        14.9
Revenues from Service chargso               95.1         96.8                      4.9         8.7
Expenxse  du- to Service chargs             66.7         62.0                     88.3        18.0
Grain (loss) from Revaluation of
Intermediotion Funds                    100.0        100.0                      -           -
Administrative Expenses                     89.4         92.4                     10.8         -
Miscellaneous Income                        67.8         83.1                     82.7        16.9
Miscellaneous Expenses                      96.3         95.9                      8.7         4.1
Contributions to National Treasury         100.0        100.0                      -           -
Gain (loss) on Revaluation of
Miscellaneous Accounts                  100.0        100.0                      -           -
Gain (loss) from Revaluation of
Accounts Oversas                        100.0         16.6                      -          84.4
Net income (loss) before Taxes
Profit Taxos                             68.1         57.4                     31.9        42.6
Net Income (lose)                           69.1         57.4                     80.9        42,6



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Banco de la Nacion Argentina
Domestic Non-Financial Private Sector Loan Portfolio 1/
Sumiary
(Expressed in Z)
12-31-84   12-31-85  12-31-86  06-30-87
Principal outstanding  2/             86.9        78.6       73.0      76.0
Arrears
,(overdue more than ten days)           8.8        16.1      20.7       16.8
Arrears (rescheduling)                  1.9        3.4        3.0       3.6
Arrears (doubtful collection)
Risk of Insolvency                  1.3         0.6       0.6        0.4
Under legal processing              0.8         0.7       2.3        2.5
Bankrupt clients                    0.3         0.6       0.4        0.6
Total                                  100.0       100.0      100.0     100.0
Provision for bad debts                   3.8        2.7        4.1       6.4
Preferred collateral as X of
irregular loans                       60.0        60.0      61.0       52.0
1/ Local currency lending makes up 69Z in 1985, 67.9Z in 1586 and 57.5Z as of
June 30, 1987 of BNA's total domestic loan portfolio.
2/ Includes loans with arrears nine days or less.



- 34-~                        ANNEX 1
_________ ________Chart   1
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
C
l~~~~~~~~ l
.<-L132~~~~I 



- 35 -
ANNEX 2a
Page 1 of 12
ARGENTINA
Reglamento del Programa Global de
Credito Agropecuarlo
INTRODUCCION
Articulo 1. El prop6sito de la presente reglamentaci6n es establecer los
terminos y las disposiciones que regiran para la ejecuci6n del Programa del
tXtulo.  El Programa sera ejecutado por el BNA con la participacion de
Instituciones Financieras Intermediarian. El BNA como organismo ejecutor
actuara simultaneamente como banco mayorista (entidad de segundo piso) y
como banco minorista (entidad do primer piso). Los recursos del Programa
estaran constituidoe por los recursos provenientes de lo prestamos del BID
y del BIRF y de los recursos de contrapartida local.
OBJETIVO!
Articulo 2.  El Programa tiene como objetivo principal  contribuir  al
incremento  de  la  capacidad  de  producci6n  y  de  la  productividad
agropecuaria, dirigida a la diversificaci6n del sector y a generar mayores
excedentes exportables, dentro del contexto de uso racional de los recursos
renovables del pals, a cuyos efectos, y a traves de operaciones de crgdito,
a mediano y largo plazo proporcionara recursos financieros, a nivel
nacional, para coadyuvar en el financiamiento de proyectos espec!ficos de
inversion que sean viables tgcnica, econ6mlca y financieramente.
DEFINICIONES
Artfculo 3. A los efectos de este Reglamento se establecen las siguientes
definiciones:
Contratos de Prestamos:  Contrato de Pr6stamo No. ..../AR, suscrito
entre el BID y el BNA en fecha        ............. y Contrato de Prgstamo
No. ..../AR, suscrito entre el BIRF y el BNA, en fecha ..........
Programa: Conjunto de actividades agropecuarias y agroindustriales a
que se refiere los Contratos de Prgstamo Nos.  ...../...-AR y
BID: Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo.
BIRF: Banco Internacional de Reconstruccion y Fomento
BNA: Banco de la Naci6n Argentina
IFI:   Instituci6n Financiera Intermediaria, incluyendo el BNA como
banco minorista, a traves de las cuales se canalizan los recursos del
Programa.



- 36 -                         ANNEX 2a
Page 2 of 12
Convenio  Subsidiario de Participaci6n:   El Convenio que las IFIs
deberan suscribir con el BNA, para participar en el Programa.
Recursos prestables del Programa:  Conjunto de recursos- financieros
provenientes de 1os Prestamos del BID y del BIRF y los provistos por
las IFIs, de acuerdo con lo estipulado en los respectivos Contratos de
Prestamos.
Usuarios (o Beneficiario):  Person3 fisica o juridica que, al reunir
los requisitos de elegibilidad establecidos en este Reglamento, recibe
recursos prestables del Programs en calidad de mutuo.
Subproyecto: Plan de inversiones agropecuarias o agroindustriales del
usuario que serg financiado con recursos prestables del Programa y del
propio usuarlo.
Costo del subproyecto: Estarg constituido por los montos destinados a
las inversiones de capital y de capital de trabajo, asociado o n6 con
esas inversiones.
Costo financiable del subproyecto:  Esta constituido por los montos
destinados a las inversiones de capital y al capital de trabajo
directamente asociado con esas inversiones, exceptuando los montos
invertidos en aquellos rubros no elegibles, de acuerdo a lo estipulado
en este Reglamento.
Redescuento: Credito que otorga el BNA a las IFIs, excluyendo al BNA,
sujeto a las condiciones establecidas en este Reglamento y en el
Convenio Subsidiario de participaci6n.
Contrato de Subprgstamo:   Contrato celebrado entre las IFIs y el
usuario para el otorgamiento de una operaci6n de credito destinada al
financiamiento de un subproyecto.
Recursos del Usuario (o Beneficiario):   Recursos aportados por el
usuario para cubrir parte del costo del subproyecto respectivo.
RECURSOS DEL PROGRAMA
Artfculo 4:  Los recursos del Programa estaran constituidos por  los
fondos  de  los  Prgstamos  No. ..../AR  y  No. ..../AR y por lo  de los
intermediarios financieros.  Ademas, estos filtimos recursos contaran, con
el aporte de los beneficiarios, con el fin de completar el costo total de
los subproyectos.
Artfculo 5: Los recursos disponibles para el otorgamiento de subprestamos
alcanzan  el  equivalente  de  US$  .......... aportados  como sigue:   el
equivalente de US$ ..*....... millones provendrvn del BID, de US$
millones del BIRF y de US$ *........  millones de las IFIs.



-37 -                        ANNEX 2a
Page 3 of 12
ArtIculo 6: Los recursos del Programa se destinaran al financiamiento de
subproyectos espec!ficos, en todo el territorio argentino, que cumplan con
lo objetivos del Programa y que sean viables tecnica, econ6mica,
administrativa y financieramente, de acuerdo con el resultado del analisis
que haga la respectiva IFI y/o el BNA como banco mayorista sobre la
solicitud de prestamo que presenten los eventuales usuarios.
EJECUCION
Articulo 7:  El Programa sera ejecutado por el BNA, como banco mayorista a
traves del Departamento de Administraci6n y Control de Intermediarios
Financieros de la Gerencia Departamental de Finanzas, y sus recursos seran
canalizados a los usuarios por intermedio del propio BNA como banco
minorista y de las demas IFIs.  -
Artfculo 8: Se consideran como IFIs, a los bancos provinciales, los bancos
municipales y los bancos privados que, habiendo cumplido a juicio del BNA
los requisitos de elegibilidad para participar en el Programa (que se
incluyen como Apendice a este Reglamento), hayan suscrito con el BNA un
convenio subsidiario de participaci6n.   El BNA en su calidad de banco
minorista tambi6n se considera como una IFI y por tanto se le aplican las
obligaciones que se establezcan para las IFIs en. este Reglamento y en los
convenios de participaci6n.
ELEGIBILIDAD DE LOS USUARIOS
Artfculo 9: Sergn elegibles para obtener financiamiento con recursos del
programa:
(a)    los siguientes productores agropecuarios:
(i)   propietarios, aparceros y/o arrendatarios, ya se trate
de personas jurIdicas o naturales:
(ii)   cooperativas agropecuarias;
(iii)   asociaciones de productores agropecuarios;
(iv)   contratistas agropecuarios (unicamente para la
adquisici6n de maquinaria y equipos); y
(b)    Contratistas,   que   no   siendo   productores   agropecuarios
demuestren experiencia en la prestaci6n de servicios al sector
y se comprometan a la utilizaci6n de la maquinaria y equipo
(tnicos rubros financiables) en actividades agropecuarias por
un perfodo substancialmente similar a su vida Gtil.
(c)    empresas   agroindustriales   que  presten  servicios  en  el
almacenamiento,    empaque    y    manejo    (conservaci6n    y
acondicionamiento) de productos agropecuarios.



- 38 -                          ANNEX 2a
Page 4 of 12
UTILIZACION DE LOS RECURSOS DEL PROGRAMA
Artfculo 10: Los recursos del Programa se utilizarhn para financiar las
inversiones de capital y el capital de trabajo a estas asociado,  en
proyectos de desarrollo agropecuario y agroindustrial, siempre y cuando en
este Gltimo caso la labor ejecutada no conduzca a la transformaci6n del
producto. En el caso de productores que requieren asistencia ticuica, como
parte del proyecto, los honorarios correspondientes podran ser financiados
con los recursos del programa hasta el equivalent. del 102 del costo del
subproyecto.
RESTRICCIONES EN EL USO DE LOS RECURSOS DEL PROGRAMA
Artfculo 11:  En el caso de que una IFI tenga participaci6n accionaria
sobre el 252 del capital suscrito de la empresa solicitante o cuando
miembros de su Directorio y/o cuerpo gerencial fuesen accionistas en exceso
del  102 del  capital pagado  de  la empresa,  la IFI deberg poner  tal
circunstancia en conocimiento del BNA.  En todo caso la concesi6n del
crgdito estarg supeditada a una autorizaci6n fundamentada expresa del BNA
previo el analisis respectivo, debiendo contar con la no objeci6n del BID y
del BIRF.
Artfculo  12:   El  costo  financiable  del  subproyecto  no  incluira  los
siguientes elementos:
(a) gastos generales y de administraci6n de lo usuarios,
(b) compra de terrenos y bienes inmuebles ya construidos,
(c) cancelaci6n de deudas, pagos de dividendos o recuperaciones de capital
ya invertidos,
(d) adquisici6n de acciones, derechos de empresas y otros valores
mobiliarios,
(e) gastos concurrentes de mano de obra,
(f) contribuciones del usuario en especie, y
(g) valores imputados a inversiones ya realizadas
ArtIculo 13: Los usuarios debergn presentar la documentaci6n adecuada que
permita verificar los aportes elegibles.
Artfculo 14: Con los recursos de los subprestamos no se podra financiar la
compra de maquinaria y equipos usados, ni la adquisici6n, construcci6n o
ampliaci6n de viviendas.
Artfculo 15: El monto del subprestamo a ser utilizado en el financiamiento
de capital de trabajo, que no sean insumos tecnicos importados o de alto
contenido importado, no podrg exceder del 59% del monto del subprestamo.
Articulo 16: Los recursos de los subprestamos, provenientes de recursos de
los prestamos del BID y del BIRF, s61o podr&n utilizarse para el pago de



39 -                         ANNEX 2a
Page 5 of 12
bienes y servicios originarlos de los paIses miebros del BIRF, Suiza y
Taiwan, China. El monto a ser utilizado en bienes y servicios originarios
de pafses miembros del BID, deberg sor igual o superior al 412 del sonto
del subprestamo.
TERMINOS Y CONDICIONES DE LOS SUBPRESTAMOS Y REDESCUENTOS
1.  Denominaci6n de los Subprestamos:
ArtIculo 17: Los subprdstamos a los usuarios estaran denominados en
australes.
2.   Mantenimiento del valor de los subprestames
Articulo 18:  Las IFIs indexarhn el saldo del capital adeudado para
mantener su valor.  El monto adeudado se ajustar-a teniendo en cuenta
la variacidn del fndice que para cada subprestamo acuerden la IFI y el
beneficiario que serg de aplicaci6n duraute todo -el plazo de
amortizaci6n. Los siguientes Indices publicados por el INDEC, podran
ser utilizados:
(a)    Indice de precios mayoristas general,
(b)    Indice de precios mayoristas agropecuarios,
(c)    Indice de precios mayorista-agricola,
(d)    Indice de precios mayorista-pecuario.
ArtIculo 19:  Ademas, se podra utilizar para el ajuste del capital la
evolucion  de  la  tasa  de  cambio  oficial  con  el  USD61ar,  tipo
transferencia vendedor, publicada por el Banco Central, o de aquella
tasa que este determine para este tipo de operaciones.
ArtIculo  20:   El  monto  aprobado  de  los  subprestamos  a  ser
desembolsados sobre varios perIodos, mantendrs su valor constante de
acuerdo a la evoluci6n de la tasa de cambio oficial Austral/USd6lar, o
el Indice que se haya seleccionado para la smortizacion de los mismos,
el que tenga un incremento menor.
3.  Manteniuiento de valor de los redescuentos
Art: ulo 21: Las amortizaciones de los redescuentos por parte de las
IFI6 al BNA, se efectuaran manteniendo su valor de acuerdo a la
evoluci6n de la tasa de cambio oficial Austral/USd6lar, o de aquella
tasa que determine el Banco Central ya:a este tipo de operaciones.
Articulo 22: El monto aprobado de redescuentos a ser desembolsado
sobre varios periodos mantendrh su valor de acuerdo a la evoluci6n de
la tasa de cambio oficial Austral/USD6lar, o aquella quo el Banco
Central determine para este tipo de operaciones.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2a
Page 6 of 12
4. Montos
Art!culo 23: El monto maximo del subprestamo podrg alcanzar hasta el
equivalente  del  85%  del  costo  financiable  del  subproyecto.   El
remanente de este. costo deberg ser cubierto por el usuario y no podrg
ser aportado ni en especies ni en rubros de capital de trabajo.
Artfculo 24: Los IFIs aportargn el 18% del monto del subprestamo y
podran redescontar el remanente de los recursos provenientes de los
prestamos del BID y del BIRF.
Art!culo 25: Salvo que el BID y el BIRF expresen que no lo objetan,
con los recursos del Programa no se podrg conceder subprgstamos: (a)
que  excedan  del  equivalepte  de  US$1.000.000   para   productores
individuales, contratistas y empresas agroindustriales y US$2.500.000
cuando se trate de proyectos de cooperativas o de asociaciones de
productores; o (b) cuyo monto, sumado al saldo deudor de subprestamos
anteriores del mismo usuario con recursos de este prof-Ima y crgditos
bajo los programas financ'ados anteriormente con prest.    del BID y/o
del  BIRF  supere  el equivalente  de US$2.000.000  p-   productores
individuales,   contratistas   y   empresas   agroindustridles   y  de
US$5.000.000 para cooperativas o asociaciones de productores.
Articulo 26:  No se podrgn otorgar subprestamos que se destinen a
financiar  subproyectos  cuyo  costo  exceda  del  equivalente  de
US$5.000.000 para productores individuales, contratistas y empresas
agroindustriales y de US$10.000.000 millones para cooperativas,
asociaciones  de productores  o empresas  que se dedican a prestar
servicios de apoyo.
5.  Tasas de interes
Articulo 27: A los usuarios de los creditos se cobrarg, por concepto
de interes, la tasa o tasas de interes anuales que, guardando armonia
con la legislaci6n y las politicas sobre tasas de interes establecidas
por el Banco Central, sean compatibles con lo estipulado en los
contratos de prestamo del BID y del BIRF sobre tasas de interes para
ese tipo de financiamiento. Durante la ejecuci6n del Program, el BNA
por un lado, y el BID y el BIRF por el otro, deberan rever cada seis
meses las tasas de intergs que se apliquen a los subprestamos. Tales
revistas seran orientadas con el objetivo de mantener tasas de interes
positivas en el tiempo.
Articulo 28: La tasa anual de interes aplicable a los redescuentos de
las IFIs en el BNA serg la resultante de afiadir un margen de
intermediaci6n de entre el 2% y el 4% al promedio de las tasas de
interes aplicables para los prestamos del BID y del BIRF. Esta tasa
sera la misma para todas las IFIs.



- 41 -                         ANNEX 2a
Page 7of 12
Art!culo 29: La tasa anual de interes aplicable a los aubprgstamos no
serf  inferior a la tasa de redescuento determinada en el artfcubi.
precedente mfs un 0,75%.
Artfculo 30:  Sujeto al lfiite establecido en el Artfculo anterior, la
tasa de interes podra ser diferente dependiendo del indice utilizado
para el mantenimiento del valor del principal, y serg fijada
semestralmente.
6.   Comisi6n de Compromiso
Artfculo  31:   En  el  caso  de  redescuentos  y  subprestamos  a  ser
desembolsados en perfodos superiores o iguales a un a-no, se podrg
cobrar una comision de comp;omiso de recursos que no podra exceder del
0,5% del monto de los fondos no utilizados, cobrable trimestralmente,
por adelantado.
Artfculo 32:  El plazo mgximo para la amortizaci6n de los subprestamos
se determinara en cada caso considerando, entre otros aspectos, el
destino de la inversi6n, la rentabilidad y capacidad de pago que
genere la misma, la vida util de los bienes financiados, la
periodicidad y volumen de los ingresos que genere la actividad,
considerando un perfodo prudencial para la comercializaci6n de la
producci6n.   En raz6n de lo anterior,  los plazos maximos que se
concederan, para cada tipo de inversi6n son los siguientes:
(a)    Cultivos  plurianuales,  maquinarias,  equipos  y  animales  de
trabajo, hasta 5 anios;
(b)    Animales reproductores y praderas, hasta 5 anlos;
(c)    Adecuacion de tierras, plantaciones permanentes, que incluyen
frutales,   construcciones,   obras   de   riego   y   drenaje,
instalaciones agropecuarias, hasta 10 a-nos;
(d)    Almacenamiento, empaque y manejo de productos agropecuarios,
hasta 10 anios.
Artfculo  33:   El periodo  de gracia para  la amortizaci8n  de los
subprestamos, sera determinado por el resultado del anglisis de los
ingresos que genere el proyecto, no pudiendo exceder en ningun caso de
los 5 anos.
7.   Garant!as
Art!culo 34:  Los subprestamos que se otorguen seran garantizados
preferentemente mediante garantfas prendarias; sin embargo, cuando las
IFIs lo estimen necesario, podrrtn solicitar, adicionalmente, otros
tipos de garantlas reales y/o quirografarias de acuerdo con lo
establecido en sus propias reglamentaciones internas.  El BNA como



- 42 -
ANNEX 2a
banco mayorista podrg solicitar el endoso de tales garantIas y la
constituci6n de otras garantlas que considere pertinentes.
8.   Revisi6n de terminos y condiciones
ArtIculo 35: Cada seis meses, el BNA por una parte y el BID y el BIRF
por otra, podran revisar las condiciones establecidas en este
Reglamento de Credito.
SOLICITUDES DE SUBPRESTAMOS
Artlculo 36: Las solicitudes de subprgstamo debergn ser presentadas a
la correspondiente IFI, en los formularios habilitados a este efecto,
acompaniando la documentacin necesaria para justificar la operaci6n
que demuestre su viabilidad tecnica, administrativa, financiera y
economica cuando corresponda.  En el caso de solicitudes preparadas
por expertos, los honorarios de estos podran ser considerados como
parte integrante del costo financiable del subproyecto respectivo.
ANALISIS DE LAS SOLICITUDES DE SUBPRESTAMOS
Artlculo 37: Recibida por la IFI la solicitud de subprgstamo para el
financiamiento de un subproyecto, se procedera a hacer un estudio de
la misma y se determinara si Esta reldne todos los requisitos exigidos
por este Reglamento. Aunque la responsabilidad por el analisis del
subproyecto para aprobar su financiamiento es de la IFI, es facultad
del BNA aceptar o rechazar el financiamiento aprobado por la IFI con
cargo L los recursos del Programa. En el caso de subprestamos que
excedan los limites mencionados en el Artfculo 25, debera obtenerse la
no objeci6n del BID y del BIRF.
Articulo 38: Todos los proyectos que se financien, deberan contar con
la siguiente informaci6n minima:
(a)    Un dictamen tgcnico y de impacto ambiental elaborado y suscrito
por un profesional con matricula legal habilitante vigente. El
dictamen de impacto ambiental deberg certificar que las
prgcticas agron6micas, los insumos, insecticidas, fertilizantes
y herbicidas, las cargas animales y la maquinaria a ser
adquirida contribuyen a la conservaci6n de los suelos y al
mejoramiento del medio ambiente.   No se requerirg dictamen
tecnico para las proyectos de reposici6n de maquinaria fuera de
la llamada zona n6cleo maicera tradicional.
(b)    En  subproyectos  con  montos  inferiores  al  equivalente  de
US$150.OOO, un flujo de caja que permita determinar la
viabilidad financiera del mismo y las posibilidades de su
amortizaci6n, segun las normas de este reglamento de crgdito.
(c)    En subproyectos con montos iguales o superiores al equivalente
de US$150.000, un analisis de rentabilidad financiera para



- 43 -
r_                   ~~~~~~ANNIEX 2a
Page 9 of iz
cuantificar el retorno del mismo al usuarlo, y en el cual se
utilizaran precios de mercados (a precios constantes) para
valorar los gastos e ingresos anuales del subproyecto y se
presentaran   los   flujos   financieros   incrementales   como
consecuencia de la aplicaci6n del financiamiento.
(d)    Ademas de lo anterior, cada uno de los subproyectos que se
financien   y   que   tenga   un  costo  total  superior  al
equivalente de US$1.000.000, deberg contar con un analisis de
rentabilidad econ6mica para analizar el efecto del subproyecto
en la economia del pars elaborado por un profesional en la
materia.   En  el  anglisis  de  rentabilidad  econ6mica,  se
empleargn precios de eficiencia que reflejen pargmetros
nacionales para valprar los costos y beneficios anuales del
subproyecto, de conformidad con las tecnicas generalmente
aceptadas para el anglisis econ6mico de beneficio/costo.
(e)    Los anglisis de rentabilidad financiera y econ6mica, deberan
realizarse   con  base   en  la  informaciln  estadfstica  y
proyecciones de ingresos y gastos que debergn presentar los
posibles subprestatarios, como parte de los estudios de
factibilidad   de   los   respectivos   subproyectos.    Dicha
informaci6n deberg permitir identificar el efecto increuental
del subproyecto, distinguigndose entre la situaci6n (flujos
financieros o econ6micos) que se producirIa sin realizar el
subproyecto  y  llevando  a  cabo  el mismo.   Dicho  anglisis
financiero y economico debera mostrar una tasa interna de
rendimiento (financiera y economica), no inferior al 12% anual
o un valor presente neto positivo, utilizando una tasa de
descuento, no menor del 12%.
(f)    El anglisis econ6mico de cada proyecto se harl siguiendo la
metodologla de evaluaci6n aceptable al BID y al BIRF.
FORMALIZACION DE LOS SUBPRESTAMOS
Articulo 39:  Todo subprgstamo que sea aprobado por las IFIs debera ser
formalizado mediante la suscripci6n de los correspondientes documentos
legales, cumpliendose al efecto las normas y procedimientos establecidos en
este Reglamento.
Artfculo 40: En el contrato de subprestamo se estableceran entre otros,
las siguientes disposiciones:
(a)    El derecho de la IFI, del BNA, del BID y del BIRF a examinar
los bienes, lugares de trabajo y las construcciones de los
subprestamos.
(b)    El compromiso del usuario de que los bienes y servicios que se
financien con los recursos del Programa, se utilizaran
exclusivamente en la ejecuci6n del respectivo subprograma.



- 44 -                          ANNEX 2a
Page lOot 12
(c)    La  obligaci6n  de proporcionar  todas  las  informaciones  que
razonablemente solicite la IFI, el BNA como banco mayorista,
ast como el BID y/o el BIRF.
(d)    El derecho.del BNA y de la IFI de suspender los desembolsos del
subprestamo o a declarar vencida y exigible de inmediato la
deuda contra!das bajo el subprestamo, si el usuario no cumple
con las obligaciones contraidas.
(e)    La aceptaci6n expresa del usuario del posible endoso de las
garantlas establecidas a favor de la IFI, conforme al Articulo
34, a favor del BNA.
(f)    El comproimiso del usuario de que se tomaran todas las medidas
que sean necesarias, para que los contratos de construcciones,
asl como toda compra de bienes para el subproyecto, se haga a.
un costr razonable que serg generalmente el precio mgs bajo que
existt en el mercado, tomando en cuenta factores de calidad,
eficiencia y otros que sean del caso.
(g)    El compromiso de llevar los registros contables, financieros y
tecnicos  que  las  IFIs y el BNA establezcan,  realizando y
ejecutando el subproyecto con la debida diligencia, de acuerdo
con eficientes normas tgcnicas y financieras.
(h)    El compromiso de no traspasar la deuda adquirida en el uso de
los recursos del programa, a menos que sea expresamente
autorizado por el BNA.
(i)    Para el caso de los bienes importados, el usuario debe asegurar
tales bienes contra siniestro ocurrido durante su transporte,
siendo los eventuales indemnizaciones pagaderos en moneda que
permitan libremente el reemplazo de tales bienes.   Ademas,
respecto de los bienes incluidos en el subproyecto, deberg
mantener durante la vigencia del prestamo, el seguro de los
bienes que lo garanticen contra los riesgos y por los valores
que se acostumbran en el comercio, de acuerdo con las practicas
del pals.
(j)    El compromi.so del usuario de acatar las orientaciones tecnicas
impartidas por cecnicos del BNA o de las IFIs o de otros
organismos oficiales segun su competencia, respecto a la
conservaci6n y al uso de recursos naturales, del medio ambiente
y de las inversiones financiadas.
(k)    Que las condiciones y terminos contenidos en los Contratos
prevaleceran sobre lo dispuesto en este Reglamento en caso de
omisi6n o conflicto; y que las disposiciones respectivas de
dichos contratos de Prestamo se consideran conocidas y
aceptadas por el usuario y parte integrante del subprestamo
respectivo.



45 -                         ANNEX 2a
Page 11 of 12
(1)    El compromiso del usuario de presentar informaci6n contable y
financiera de acuerdo a las normas establecidas por las IFIs en
acuerdo con el BNA.
EXIGIBILIDAD ANTICIPADA DE LOS SUBPRESTAMOS
ArtXculo 41:  Los subprestamos otorgados podran considerarse vencidos y
exigibles de inmediato, sin perjuicio de otras previsiones incluidas en
otras secciones de este Reglamento, de concurrir alguna de las siguientes
circunstancias:
(a)    Si se comprobara la existencia de falsedad en las informaciones
proporcionadas por el usuario al formular la solicitud de
subprgstamo.
(b)    Si el usuario se opusiera a la inspecci6n u otorgar informaci6n
sobre las inversiones o de los bienes dados en garantia o de
cualquier hecho susceptible de disminuir su valor o comprometer
su dominio.
(c)    Si el usuario no paga las cuotas sefialadas en el contrato de
subprestamo, tanto por concepto de capital como de intereses o
comisiones, en las fechas en que debiera hacerlo.
(d)    Si los bienes dados en garantia del subpre'stamo sufrieran
deterioro de grado tal que no cubran satisfactoriamente la
obligaci6n, siempre que el usuario no reponga la garantfa
disminuida por el deterioro o la refuerce o pague en efectivo
una cantidad proporcional al deterioro de los b'enes, dentro
del plazo de quince dIas contados desde la fecha de la
notificaci6n que le haga la IFI.
(e,    Si al usuario se le siguiere un concurso de acreedores o se
decrete secuestro o embargo sobre alguno de sus bienes, aunque
no se trate de aquellos afectados a la ejecuci6n y/o garant:a
del subproyecto financiado.
(f)    En todos los casos de incumplimiento contractual del usuario
con respecto a crgditos financiados con recursos del Programna o
si dicho usuario faltase a las estipulaciones del contrato de
subprestamo, o a las sehialadas en el presente Reglamento.
Articulo 42: El usuario que se encuentra en situaci6n de mora en el pago
de las obligaciones derivadas del subprestamo, o en incumplimiento de las
condiciones del contrato de subpr6stamo, perdera su condici6n de usuario
elegible para continuar su participaci6n en el Programa mientras esta
situaci6n persista.



- 46 -                        ANNEX 2a
Page 12 of 12
CANALIZACION DE LOS RECURSOS DEL PROGRAMA A TRAVES DE LAS IFIs
Artlculo 43: Para la canalizaci6n de lo recursos del Prograua a traves de
la participacifn de las IFIs. se deborNm cumplir las condiciones
siguientes:
(a)    El BNA aprobar5 la capacidad financiera y operativa de cada
IFI, de *cuerdo con los- criterios de alegibilidad que se
describen on el Apendice a este Reglamento.
(b)    Deber&n suscribirse  en cada caso un convenio subsidiario de
participaciln conforme al aodelo anexo a este Reglamento, quo
incluye la aceptaci6n expresa de la IFI de las disposiciones de
este Reglamento.
DISPOSICIONES FINALES
Artlculo 44: Cualquier cambio al prosente Reglanento, deberg ser sometido
proviamente a la consideraci6n aprobatoria del BID y del BIRP.
Artfculo 45:  Las condiciones y terminos contenidos en l10  Contratos de
Preutamo del BID y del BIRF prevaleceran sobre lo dispuesto en este
Reglamento on caso de omisi6n o conflicto con sus regulaciones.
Ova. Revisi6n
4 Mar. 1988



- 47-
- 47 -                    ANNEX 2b
Page 1 of 3
A R G E N T I N A
Programs Global de CrSdito Agropecuario
Criterios para la selecci6n de entidades fiuancieras
I. Introduccion
El prop6sito del presente documento as establecer lo criterios que
se utilizaran para decidir acerca de la admisi6n de un intermediario
financiero en el Programa Global de Credito Agropecuario (El
Programa), administrado por el Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (BNA)
como  banco  mayorista  y  financlado  parcialmente  con  recursos
provenientes de los Prestamos del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(BID) y del Banco Internacional para la Reconulrucci6n y Fomento
(BIRF), destinado a otorgar apoyo crediticio al sector agropecuario y
agroindustrial argentino.
II. Informacion
Los intermediarios financieros que aspiren a participar en el
Programa, deberan presentar ante el BNA la siguiente informaci6n,
tanto al presentarse por primera vez, como anualmente para ratificar
su continuaci6n como intermediario elegible:
Ultimas f6rmulas presentadas al Banco Central, n6meros:
*  3000  Estado de Efectivo Munimo en Moneda Nacional
. 3000B Estado de Efectivo Minimo en Moneda Nacional -
Complemento
. 3212 Distribuci6n de la Cartera por sectores
. 3826 Balance de Saldos
. 3827 Estado de Situaci6n de Deudores
. 2965 Estado de Activos Inmovilizados
. 2966 Dep6sitos y Otras Obligaciones en Moneda Nacional
. 3519 Distribuci6n del Credito por cliente
. 3519A Distribuci6n del Credito por cliente - Complemento
. 3269 Excesos a la relaci6n de fraccionamiento del riesgo
crediticio
. 4026 Operaciones a tasa de inter6s no regulada por el
BCRA
. 3829 Analisis de algunos rubros del activo y pasivo
- Ultimo balance trimestral auditado
- Ultimos dos (2) balances anuales y 8us respectivas memorias
- Nomina de los directivos de la entidad
- Detalle de la ubicaci6n de las sucursales o filiales



- 48 -                          ANNEX 2b
Page 2 of 3
- Informaci6n acerca de gestiones con el BCRA, respecto de la
solicitud de redescuentos especiales, exenci6n de cargos, etc.
- Toda otra informaci6n que a criterio del BNA sea necesaria para
evaluar la situacion de la entidad.
Esta informaci6n es controlada por el BNA para verificar su
intogridad y exactitud. Adicionalmente, se efectGa un analisis de
consistencia entre los distintos formularios recibidos, se corrigen
errores de integraci6n, y se solicita a 1os bancos informaci6n
complementaria y aclaratoria si liegaran a detectarse errores de
partidas o situaciones no habituales o llamativas.
Una vez finalizados los coptroles, se elabora una serie de relaciones
cuyos valores determinaran si es procedente la admisi6n del
intermediarlo financiero como parte integrante del Programa.
III.  Criterios y Limites
Los criterios que se mencionan a continuaci6n estin divididos en dos
grupos, uno en el que todos los Indices deben cumplirse, y otro en el
qua deben cumplirse por lo menos la mitad de ellos.
(a)  Criterios indispensables
S6lo podran participar en el Programa. aquellos intermediarios
financieros cuyas relaciones arrojen, en su totalidad, valores
comprendidos dentro de los limites establecidos para cada una de
ellas:
(i) Relaciones t6cnicas vigentes, que determine el Banco
Central (ver Apendice a este Anexo).
(ii)  Posici6n ajustada de efectivo minimo.   Integracion de
efectivo minimo menos exigencias de efectivo minimo y
prgstamos interfinancieros netos como relaci6n a la
exigencia de efectivo minimo.
La relaci6n no puede ser inferior a -0,20.
(iii)  Cobertura de riesgo por incobrabilidad, definida como la
relaci6n de las colocaciones con incobrabilidad potencial
mas garantias otorgadas con incobrabilidad potencial
menos las previsiones, al patrimonio de la entidad.
La relaci6n no podrg ser superior a 0,25.
(iv)  Resultados.   Deberg  haber  obtenido  utilidades  netas
positivas en los dos Gltimos ejercicios, y en el
ejercicio en curso si hau tranecurrido mas de seis meses.
(v)   Experiencia  en el  sector  agropecuario.   Deberg haber
tenido no menos  del  5% de su cartera en el sector
agropecuario en cada uno de los fltimos tres anios.



- 49 -                          ANNEX 2b
Page 3 of 3
(b) Criterios Opcionales
S6lo podran participar en el Programa aquellos intermediarios
financieros cuyas relaciones arrojen, en no menos do dos de las
siguientes cuatro relaciones, valores comprendidos dentro de lo1
limites establecidos para cada una de ellas:
(M) Eficiencia de la estructura, definida como la relacion
entre los gastos ordinarios y el volumen de actividad.
La relaci6n no puede ser superior a 0,05.
(ii) Situaci6n de la cartera irregular, definida como la
relaci6n de la cartera ie credito en situaci6n irregular
menos las previsiones por riesgo de incobrabilidad al
total de la cartera en prestamos y en creditos.
La relaci6n no puede ser superior a 0,08.
(iii)  Activos inmovilizados,  definidos como la relacion del
total de las inmovilizaciones, incluyendo bienes tomados
en defensa o en pago de creditos que han estado
incorporados   al   activo   neto,   al   total   de   la
responsabilidad patrimonial computable.
La relaci6n no puede ser superior a 1,00.
(iv) Endeudamiento total, definido como la relaci6n de los
pasivos actuales y contingentes a la responsabilidad
patrimonial computable.
La relaci6n no puede ser superior a 20,0.
(c) Limites
Las relaciones tecnicas vigentes seran aquellas que determine el
Banco Central en su oportunidad. Las vigentes, al momento de
acordar este documento por parte del BNA y del BID y del BIRF se
incluyen como Apendice I.
IV.  Anglisis
Una vez analizados los conceptos precedentes y comparados los valores
resultantes con los lfmites respectivos, se elaborara un informe que
expresarg la resoluci6n de admitir o no al intermediario financiero
como parte del Programa.
El BNA podra tomar otros factores en cuenta para determinar la
elegibilidad del intermediario financiero, que a su juicio sean
pertinentes.   Sin embargo, antes de rechazar un intermediario que
cumpla con los demas criterios establecidos anteriormente, deberg
obtener la no objeci6n del BID y del BIRF.
5ta. version
4 Mar. 1988



ANNEX 2b
- 50 -                         Appendix
APENDICE
RELACIONES TECNICAS                  al 31.12.87   |al 31.12.88
1) Dep6sitos y otras obligaclo-   C 20 veces
nes en moneda argentina y  Do    RPC
neda extranjera
2) Facilidades totales en mone-   * 25% RPC *
da argentrna-y extranjera o-
torgadas a un *dlo clionto
(o conjunto etondmico)
Facilidades otorgadas a  una   C 12,5% RPC *
persona f1sica o jurtdica vin
culada
3) -Total de activos inmoviliza
dos                              100%  PPC*        as% RPC
-Inversion en titulos valores
(excepto lo  t(tulos pdbli-
cos)                              3%  RPC *
-Nuevas entidades financieras
Activos totales inmovilizados    50%  RPC *       35% RPC *
(Bienes tomados en defensa
o pago de creditos estin ex
cluidos de las normas prece-
dentes durante 6 meses desde
su incorporaci'n al Patrimo-
nio Neco)
4) Responsabilidad patrimonial    (Referir a  circular WBO 2708)
mtnima por categorfas
5) Bonos Ajustables de Renta -
Real Asegurada, Titulos de -
Cancelacion de Deuda YPF, Bo
nos en Australes del Gobier-
no Nacional y DONEX
Posicidn neta diaria compra-        5t  RPC *
dora y vendedora
Saldos diarios de  tenencias   < Recursos pro
de cada uno de los siguientes    pios netos
y en conjunto: BONEX, Tit.can    de inmavili-
celacion Deuda YPF (Serie A),    zaciones
Si'tulos Ajustables Gob. Mac.,
Donos en Australes, del Gob.
Mac.
RPC: Responsabilidad patrimonial computable del xltimo dGa del mes
anterior.



- 51 -                      ANNEX 2c
rage 1 of 7
ARGENTINA
Programa Globf` de Credito Agropecuario
Proyecto de Convenio Subsidlario de Participaci6n
CONVENIO SUBSIDIARIO DE PARTICIPACION, suscrito el                    entre el
Banco  de  la  Naci6n  Argentina,  representado  por  su  Presidente  y
representante legal sefior                                          y el Banco
representado por el sefnor                                   en su calidad de
y representante legal de dicho organismo, debidamente autorizado por el
Directorlo del mismo en sesi6n de XXXXXXX, de aqui en adelante, el
Convenlo.
Para todos los efectos de este Convenlo, el Banco de la Naci6n Argentina se
denominara BNA y al Banco                       se le denominarg Instituci6n
Financiera Intermediaria (IFI).
POR CUANTO, mediante Contrato de Prestamo BIRF        -AR, suscrito el    de
de       (de aqui en adelante  denominado  el Contrato  BIRF),  el Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (de aqui en adelante denominado
el BIRF)  ha concedido un prestamo al                  (de aqui en adelante
denominado              ), por un monto eqt ivalente en. diversas monedas a
DOLARES (US$             ) (de aqui en adel&nte denominado el Prestamo BIRF)
y  mediante  Contrato  de  Prestamo  BID       /AR,     suscrito  el        de
de      (de  aquI  en  adelante  denomlnado  el  Contrato  BID),  el  Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo (de aqui en adelante denominado el BID) ha
concedido  un  prgstamo  al               (de  aquI  en  adelante  denominado
-,  en  diversas  monedas  por  un  monto  de                   d6lares   (US$
)(de aquI en adelante denominado el prestamo BID),  con el objeto de
financiar la ejecuci6n del "Programa Global de Credito Agropecuario" (en
adelante el Programa) cuya responsabilidad del control de la ejecucion
corresponde al BNA y a lo Bancos Privados y Bancos Oficiales (el BID y el
BIRF seran referidos conjuntamente como los Bancos).
POR CUANTO el BNA aprob6,  con fecha                        un Reglamento de
Credito que rije la ejecuci6n del Programa (en adelante el Reglamento).
POR  CUANTO,  las  partes  han  acordado  formalizar  este  Convenlo  de
Participaci6n   (de   aquI  en   adelante   denominado   el   Convenio   de
Participaci6n).
POR TANTO, las partes convienen en lo siguiente:



- 52-                          ANNEX 2c
Page 2 of 7
CAPITULO 1
DEFINICIONES Y DISPOSICIONES GENERALES.
ARTICULO 1
El t6rmino "Contratos" significa el Contrato BID y el Contrato BIRF
referidos conjuntamente.
ARTICULO 2
El termino "los pr6stamos" significa el prestamo del BIRF y el prestamo del
BID referidos conjuntamente.
ARTICULO 3
El tezrmino redescuento significa cada uno de los creditos que otorgue el
BNA a la IFI, sujeto a las condiciones establecidas en este Convenio y en
el Reglamento. El contrato de redescuento significa el instrumento legal
mediante el cual el BNA otorga un rcdescuento a la IFI.
ARTICULO 4
Dondequiera que se utilicen en el presente Convenio de Participaci6n y, a
menos que del contexto del mismo se concluya que deban entenderse de otra
manera, los diversos terminos definidos en los Contratos y el Reglamento,
en las Condiciones Generales vigentes (tai cual definidas en los
Contratos), tendran los respectivos significados en ellos establecidos.
ARTICULO 5
La IFI declara conocer y aceptar el Reglamento, las normas del cual
formarSn parte integrante de este convenio y se entienden reproducidas en
el en su integridad. La IFI acepta y ratifica todas las modificaciones que
el BNA pueda introducir en el futuro al Reglamento.
ARTICULO 6
El BNA efectuarg desembolsos de fondos en favor de la IFI con cargo a los
prSstamos para la reposici6n de los recursos correspondientes a los
subprgstamos que gsta haya realizado en los tgrminos y condiciones
establecidos en el Reglamento y en el presente Convenio.
El mecanismo para tal objeto serg el siguiente:
La IFI, para la justificaci6n de los desembolsos que debe efectuar el
BNA, presentarg los siguientes documentos:
(i) Detalle de Gastos realizados o a realizar en el que consten
los creditos concedidos a los usuarios por la IFI
debidamente aprobado por el BNA y los Bancos en su caso.



53 -                      ANNEX 2c
Page 3 of 7
(ii) La Tabla de amortizaci6n global de lo subprestamos,
indicando el pago de capital e intereses correspondientes a
cada uno de los subprestamos.
(iii) Contrato de apertura de crgdito legalmente valido y
efectivo, suscrito entre la IFI y cada usuario que contenga
las condiciones sefialadas en el Reglamento.
ARTICULO 7
El primer desembolso a cuenta del Convenlo esta condicionado a que se
cumplan a satisfacci6n del BNA los siguientes requisitos:
(a)  Que la IFI haya designado uno o mas funcionarios  que puedan
representarlo en todos los actos relacionados con la ejecuci6n del
Convenio y que haya hecho llegar al BNA ejemplares autenticos de
las firmas de dichos representantes.  Si se designaren dos o mis
funcionarios,  corresponderg  sefialar  si  los  designados  podrLn
actuar separada o conjuntamente.
(b)  Que el BNA haya recibido un dictamen legal por parte de la IFI
sobre la validez jurldica del presente Convenio.
(c)  Que la IFI haya presentado al BNA el plan de cuentas habilitado
para este Programa, en los terminos y condiciones satisfactorios
para el BNA.
(d)  Que se haya convenido respecte de la firma de contadores publicos
independientes que efectuaran las funciones de auditoria previstas
en el ArtIculo 9 (d) y que ello haya sido comunicado al BRA.
te)  Que  se  haya  proporcionado  al  BNA  n6mina  y  asiento  de  lo1
ingenieros agr6nomos que actuargn en la aprobaci6n de los planes
de trabajo que presenten los subprestatarios.
(f)  Que la IFI haya abierto una cuenta corriente en el BRA para
movilizar los recursos de los redescuentos, en adelante la Cuenta
Corriente.
CAPITULO III
MECANISMOS DE EJECUCION
ARTICULO 8
Para el cumplimiento de las obligaciones contraIdas, la IFI efectuarg lo
siguiente:
(a) La IFI, de conformidad con el Reglamento, sus propias normas
internas y con sujeci6n a las estipulaciones del presente Convenio



- 54 -                        ANNEX 2c
Page 4 of 7
aprobara operaciones de subprestamo en favor de sus clientes,
asumiendo el riesgo comercial correspondiente.
(b) La IFI enviarg a la Unidad Mayorista del BNA, la documentaci6n de
los subprestamos aprobados mencionada en el artfculo 6, a ffn de
que esta, efectue, si procede, la entrega de fondos a la IFI.  En
el caso de que los subprgstamos excedan los lfmites establecidos
en el Reglamento, se requerirg la. aprobacion previa del BNA, antes
de  instrumentar  el subprestamo,  para  lo  cual  la  IFI  deberg
presentar la informaci6n que el BNA solicite.
(c)  La IFI formarg un expediente de cada uno de los subprgstamos
otorgados, que contendra la documentaci6n determinada en los
instructivos contables y de credito, a efectos de permitir el
seguimiento y control por parte del BNA y para la auditorfa
externa y control de la IFI y del Programa.
CAPITULO IV
ARTICULO 9
La IFI deberg cumplir con las estipulaciones que constan en el Reglamento,
fundamentalmente:
(a) La IFI establecerg y mantendrf registros contables e individuales
para cada subprestamo y consignarg en ellos todas las cantidades
desembolsadas y recibidas del usuario en conexi6n con el
suprestamo que mantendra el aaldo deudor y el saldo vencido de los
mismos.
(b) La IFI mantendra una cuenta del Programa separada y adecuada de
conformidad con practicas contables apropiadas y uniformemente
aplicadas que refleje:
(M)  Los  movinientos,  recursos  y  gastos  respecto  a  los
subprestamos concedidos.
(ii)  Todos  los  rubros  por  concepto  de  los  cuales  se  han
solicitado retiros de la cuenta del Programa y
(iii)  Los montos recibidos y de pagos bechos al BNA de acuerdo
con el presente Convenio.
(c)  La IFI mantendra por lo menos por cinco anlos contados a partir de
la vigencia de este convenio, o por un perfodo a ser determinado
por el BNA, conforme a lo dispuesto en los contratos, todos los
registros (contratos, pedidos, facturas, comprobantes, recibos y
otros documentos) que corstituyan prueba de tales gastos y
permitira que los representantes del BNA y los Bancos examinen
tales registros.



- 55 -                         ANNEX 2c
Page 5 of 7
(d) La IFI dispondrg que se verifiquen las cuentas correspondientes al
Programa, por auditores independientes aceptables al BNA y los
Bancos comprometi6ndose ademas de colaborar en la inspeccifn de
verificaci6n de las inversiones.
(e) La IFI proporcionarg al BNA, dentro de los cuatro meses de
concluido el elercicio fiscal correspondiente, los estados
financieros auditados de la institucion.
(f)  La IFI proporcionarg al BNA esta informaci6n, tan pronto como este
disponible y a ase tardar dentro de los primeros dos meses del aiio
calendario, para lo cual remitirg:
(M)  Informe de verificaci6n de los auditores, con el alcance y
el  detalle  de  que  lo  Bancos  hubieren  razonablemente
solicitado en el que se incluirg informes acerca de que los
fondos del prestamo se utilizaron para hacer pagos por
concepto de bienes y servicios que hayan reunido las
condiciones  para  su  financiamiento,   en  virtud  del
Reglamento.
(ii) Proporcionarg al BNA y los Bancos toda informaci6n relativa
a las cuentas y estados financieros y a la verificaci6n de
los mismos cuando el BNA y los Bancos razonablemente lo
solicitaren.
CAPITULO V
OTRAS DISPOSICIONES
ARTICULO 10
La IFI pagarg al BNA las sumas adeudadas por el principal que Sste le
desembolse en cada redescuento, en los plazos, con los perlodos de gracia y
al tipo de cambio determinado en cada uno de los contratos de redescuento,
conforme a lo estipulado en el Reglamento.
ARTICULO 11
La tasa de interes que pague la IFI al BNA sera la establecida on el
Contrato de redescuento.
ARTICULO 12
La IFI de llegar a conocer, por s! o previa notificaci6n de la Unidad
Mayorista del BNA que existen subprestamos cuyos planes de inversi6n no se
estan ejecutando con sujeci6n a los tSrminos y condiciones en base a los
cuales fueran otorgados, podra suspender los desembolsos correspondientes a
tales subprestamos y cuando fuere del caso declararlos de plazo vencido y
de cobro inmediato, informando a la brevedad al BNA sobre la situaci6n y
mediadas adoptadas.



- 56 -                         ANNEX 2c
Page 6 of 7
ARTICULO 13
En el caso de que lo subpr6stamos sean amortizados anticipadamente, la IFI
debers efectuar las amortizaciones que correspondan al BNA, dentro de un
plazo no mayor a 30 dlas de recibidos los fondos.
ARTICULO 14
La IFI llevarg a cabo sus actividades de acuerdo con s6lidas practicas
financieras y contables y permitira que los representantes del BNA y los
Bancos inspeccionen los registros contables y documentos que respalden
operaciones de subprestamos.
ARTICULO 15
La Unidad Mayorista se encargara de establecer mecanismos r procedimientos
de orden tecnico y de intercamblo de informacin que sean necesarios para
asegurar el correcto financiamiento y ejecuci6n de los plates de inversi6n,
a la vez que para dar cumpllmiento a las condiciones estipuladas en el
Regiamento.
ARTICULO 16
El BNA puede suspender las operaciones a la IFI contempladas en el presente
Convenio de Participaci6n, en cualquiera de los siguientes casos:
(a) Si la situaci6n financiera de la IFI es tal que a juicio del BNA
no brinda suficientes garantfas.
(b) En caso de incumplimiento con cualquier compromiso establecido en
eate Convenio o el Reglamento referente a las obligaciones
contraUdas con el BNA y los Bancos.
(c)  Si el BNA considera que la IFI no esta administrando los recursos
del Programa en forma satisfactoria y asi se lo notifica por
escrito.
ARTICULO 17
Cuando cualquiera de los casos especificados en los literales (a) y (b) del
Articulo 16 anterior persistiere por mgs de 30 dias y previa notificaci6n,
el BNA puede declarar de plazo vencido y de cobro inmediato todas las
cantidades que aquella le adeude por operaciones efectuadas de conformidad
con el presente Convenio.
ARTICULO 18
Ademis de las garantias previstas en el Reglamento a favor del BNA, la IFI
garantizarg las obligaciones que asuma en cada contrato de redescuento,
mediante  la  autorizaci6n  irrevocable  al  BNA  p'ara  que  gete  debite
automaticamente las sumas adeudadas y exigibles en la Cuenta Corriente.



- 57 -                         ADTNEX 2c
Page 7 of 7
ARTICULO 19
El presente Convenio regira desde esta fecha y terminarg una vez que la IFI
haya efectuado los pagos adeudados al BNA.
ARTICULO 20
Este Convenio puede ser enmendado por comGn acuerdo entre las partes
expresado por escrito, previo consentimiento de los Bancos.
ARTICULO 21
(a) Cualquier notificacion bajo este Convenio serg hecha por escrito y
firmada por funcionarios autorizados de la parte notificante.
(b) Cualquier otro acto que pueda o deba ejecutarse o cualquier otro
documento que pueda o deba suscribirse en virtud del presente
Convenio, serg o podra ser ejecutado o suscrito por funcionarios
autorizados de las respectivas partes.
ARTICULO 22
El todo lo no previsto en el presente instrumento se estarg a lo dispuesto
en el Reglamento de Cr6dito, o en su defecto en lo Contratos.
EN FE DE LO CUAL,  las partes contratantes,  actuando por medio de sus
representantes debidamente autorizados.
POR EL BANCO DE LA NACION
ARGENTINA
POR LA INSTITUCION FINANCIERA INTERNEDIARIA
5ta. Versi6n
Mar.4, 1988



- 58 -
ANNEX 3a
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Monitorina and Evaluation Component Costs
US$ ('000)
Years
No.          1        2       3       4      Total
Staffing
Managerial      (1)         30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0   120.0
Technical       (5)        108.0   108.0   108.0   108.0   432.0
Administrative (1)           9.0      9.0     9.0     9.0    36.0
Secretarial    (2)          12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    48.0
Subtotal                 159.0   159.0   159.0   159.0   636.0
Transportation and
Travel Expenses
Travel                      40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0   160.0
Fuel, Lubricants            15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    60.0
Subtotal                 55.0    55.0    55.0    55.0   220.0
Office Expenses                  8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0    32.0
Eauipment
Furniture                   18.0
Typewriters  (3)             7.0
Photocopiers (1)             3.0
Computers    (3)            25.0
Vehicles      (2)           30.0
Subtotal                83.0                             83.0
Technical Assistance
Consultants a/              40.0    40.0    20.0    40.0   140.0
Detailed 'Sudies            94.0    60.0    60.0    94.0   308.0
Surveys                     22.0        22.0    15.0    22.0    81.0
Subtotal              156.0   122.0    95.0   156.0   529.0
Total                 461.0   344.0   317.0   378.0  1500.0
a/  A total of 14 manmonths e US$10,000/mm for fees and per diem.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3b
Page 1 of-2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Monitorina and Evaluation Component
Consultant Draft Terms of Reference
Year 1 -   A four-month consultancy with the Secretariat of Agriculture,
Livestock and Fisheries' Monitoring and Evaluation Unit woulds
(1) Design an efficient system of monitoring and evaluation for the
Agricultural Credit Program subject to requirements established
*under loan agreements with the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development and the Inter-American,
Development Bank.
(2) Prepare a work program to include:
(a) a baseline study;
(b) complementary and continuing studies and surveys during
implementation; and
(c) an indicative list of topics requiring in-depth studies.
(3) Formulate detailed recommendations specifying indicators to be
used to measure progress in the Credit Program and detailing
required information flows among institutions, form, and
schedules for presenting results.
(4) In collaboration with the Unit Director, analyze the
requirements for staffing, budget, technical assistance, and
training.
-    A two-month consultancy with the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
would:
(1) Analyze and adjust the methodology used in monitoring and
evaluation.
(2) Collaborate in the preparation of Annual Progress Report.
(3) Analyze the results of the baseline study.
(4) Recommend any needed modifications in the work plan, program
indicators, and detailed studies.



- 60 -                             Annex 3b
Page 2 of 2
Year 2 -   A three-month consultancy with the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit would:
(1) Design a survey to measure mid-term progress and impact.
(2) Collaborate in the definition of a mid-term evaluation and in
the preparation of the Annual Report.
(3) Measure achievements within the work program of the Unit and
develop a two-year plan.
Year 3 -   A three-month consultancy would:
(1) Analyze progress and achievements in the work program of the
Unit and suggest adjustments in methodology.
(2) Collaborate in the preparation of the Annual Progress Report.
Year 4 -   A four-month consultancy would:
(1) Design the survey for measuring impact of the Credit Program.
(2) Outline methodology and institutional arrangements for on-going
monitoring and evaluation once project is completed.
(3) Evaluate the work of the Unit.
(4) Collaborate in the analysis and preparation of the Annual
Progress and Completion Reports.



- 61 -                                        ANNEX 4
AMGaUawL Crr rW II
FUR OF  mU
Australes (3)
2h      ~AustralesAutam
~~~~~-  ~ ~~~~~a                  A-     f      tm I 
F1]           ,frewrer  Foreign                Astrales                                              U
/   hrge (3)            (3)        2nd                 BU 
(3)        1-dis-                                   0
/  atra1             cRntiiR
Bair                Faiity                                    R
m14                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
_   1 /           ~~~~~Specda  (3)                                                                       R 
IIFD    Elwhge  (2)__ .w                                                                 Jet     l
L J                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Australes    Ue  Atete
| tl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(6ht4)                                                ~        (5)
q              T~14
Risk h
(7)
(1) ms disbzees In fozeiwr. currey wd mnitaiz  loan arcgmts in unit d  mount (baket).
(2) IID diSbUres in US doUamsl anmit1ai  lam amunts in US dollar quivaleats to a buhut of crTences.
(3) Dwaatei In US do] In  at tb, ecdo rate in effct cnt tta day ut  arwan.
(4) 14zm  according to offcidal Astral-l dollar exduz4 rate.
(5) IxwA ullE lzk  selat  by thb sub-borrower.
(6) 0lcim  for specal crss-curency eduq  risk spreaw, intially opt at 21 ail subject
to revlek e.ey six nxths.
(7) GM tops up cross-currency exchange risk account when divergence of actual from provisioned accounts
esws  sprea ievl.



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
~1
ant of Eb__             Gt at Ru"aant o 8
+ OaSM  (1)             + 4ted (3)                (pud (4)
it
fz zf 1.25S t tS _t st, ud *Ri . tX d d 0 tf tS ZD 
Gut o P.* (2)             u*t do lad                                 S
0J), Fmt                .e  (3)                  Gut *,d _bisk
- Ip d (4)
lt
(I) IM for qMh dL        immi w inaf tin Isrnt tto to dhKt foe *t v. Camm s Swhia a  mit
Sm t of23 M ntin wAdimmawadit, aud a GM trn gawin dr~ at 0.23 a teI= lawait..
(2) MM w=fl un. a wrzi6la fmutc iantoejue qa aidxm * sal qila tD theU t&A1 Iam ot
aminm be Is 0,72 ar tta wAil.ubd lan acmt.
(3) MM imild q4r*y a uwM of duaA 3t, subje to mUqft; tis qprod 'muld rm 1WI8M~
dmWs (0.Z), adIidistratvm coats (0.3Z), credt dc.* (0.39). at =%vcrn.-umI  erdak i (243X).
(4) btaf or let-tier b**  wtAd #M  a spe td  cosxpt 3, adifdma~tJ tcrtwitdh p1ocimal tzimtin. to
ofte  -CLU   =Al t mma.



-63-
ANNEX 6
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement8 al
(USS million)
Disbursemenjt
Fiscal                             During        Undisbursed    Cumulative
Year                             Semester          Amount     Disbursement
1989     December 31, 1988          10.5 b/          96.0           10.5
June 30, 1989               6.0             90.0          16.5
1990     December 31, 1989           7.0             83.0           23.5
June 30, 1990               8.4             74.6          31.9
1991     December 31, 1990           9.5             65.1           41.4
June 30, 1991               9.8             55.3          51.2
1992     December 31, 1991          10.4             44.9           61.6
June 30, 1992               9.8             35.1          71.4
1993     December 31, 1992           8.9             26.2           80.3
June 30, 1993               7.9             18.3          88.2
1994     December 31, 1993           6.0             12.3           94.2
June 30, 1994               4.9              7.4          99.1
1995     December 31, 1994           3.2              4.2          102.3
June 30, 1995               2.4              1.8         104.7
1996     December 31, 1995           1.4              0.4          106.1
June 30, 1996               0.4              0.0         106.5
*/ Conforms to Bank's general disbursement profile for agricultural credit
projects in the Latin America and Caribbean Region.
b/ Initial disbursement for establishment of Special Account.



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Key indicators and Reporting Reauirements
A.       Key Indicators                                      By mid-
1990    1991    1993    1996
1.       Loan disbursements                       202      402     802    1002
2.       Share of subloans through                202      202     202     202
retail banks other than BNA
3.       Disbursements for Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit                      502     75Z      1002
B.       Reporting Requirements
1. Lending Operations. BNA's re-discounting unit would submit
consolidated information semi-annually which would include the
following minimum informationt
(a) amounts committed
(b) number and type of subloans granted
(c) subloan disbursements
(d) subloan repayments and repayments to BNA
(e) amounts in arrears and number of subloans affected by
arrears
(f) withdrawals from loan proceeds
In addition, to serve as a useful tool for project management
and supervision the monitoring of lending operations would be
based on a flexible, computerized system which would allow for
in-depth analysis, as well as normal reporting requirements.
The system would be based on a data matrix which would monitor
the following variables:
(a) activities financed (i.e., grain farming, dairying,
storage, etc.)
(b) subproject size
(c) subloan size
(d) financing shares by beneficiaries, retiil banks, and BNA
2nd-tier
(e) loan applications
(f) commitments
(g) disbursements
(h) withdrawal for IBRD loan proceeds
(i) repayments
(j) arrears
(k) location (province) of sub-project/retail bank
(1) index used for principal



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
2.  Investments.  Based on information supplied through BNA, the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be responsible for
reporting on goods and activities being purchased which would
include:
- farm machinery by type and hp per tractor
-   livestock by species and purpose
-  m2 of grain storage capacity by type (i.e., cooperative,
commercial, and on-farm)
-   fruit tree plantation (ha)
-   kilometer of fencing
-  watering facilities (number, type, capacity)
-   land clearing (ha)
-   pasture improvement (ha)
-   sheds, corrals, barns, etc. (m2)
-   technical assistance (public, private) (manweeks)
-   fertilizer and ag;ochemicals (tons)
-   packing plants (i2)
-   cold storage (m2)
3.  Financial/Economic.  The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would
also report ont
-   interest rates for savings and fixed deposits
-   interest rates for rural credit
-   commercial, financial, and parallel exchange rates
-   changes in price indices
-   prices of principal products, inputs and rural labor.
4. Production and Productivitv. The Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit would also analyze the impact of credit on production and
productivity, placing particular emphasis on the relationship
between credit availability and adoption of new technology.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Illustrative Investment Plans
Introduction
1.       Under the project, medium- and long-term credit would finance
on-farm development and investments in initial agroindustrial stages such as
storage and packing. Likely investments would include replacing and modernizing
the .arm machinery pool, planting of fruit orchards, herd restocking, pasture
improvements, and construction of storage and packing facilities. Many of these
investments would be associated with technological improvement packages to be
promoted by INTA to introduce soil conservation measures and fertilizer and
agro-chemical use in farming practices; to intensify livestock production by
increasing on-farm forage availability and improving herd management and animal
health practices; and to increase the output and marketing of export quality of
fresh fruit and vegetables through improved varieties and production practices,
more sophisticated selection and packaging procedures, and the use of cold
storage.
2.       To analyze the technical and financial viability of expected
investments and proposed technological improvements, investment plans have been
modeled. Eight models were selected as illustrative of the likely investments
under the project. Cost and benefits are based on actual market/farm-gate
prices. Domestic commodity prices are closely linked to international market
prices, and while Bank price forecasts anticipate some recovery from the current
low levels for most of the products involved, the modeling exercise
conservatively assumes no real price increases. Under these price assumptions,
internal rates of return range between 182 and 412. Assuming a real cost of
capital of 15Z, the investments are financially viable. However, sensitivity
analysis indicates that the financial viability of those models in the lower
range of IRR, in particular cereal and oilseed farming, would be vulnerable to a
deterioration in input/output price relationships resulting from either adve'se
movements in international market prices or increases in export taxes, and rates
of return after financing of between 17X and 762 indicate that proposed
investments would be financially attractive for producers.
3.       Brief descriptions of the eight models and results of financial
analysis are presented below. More detailed data on the models can be found in
the Technical File.
Financial Models
4.       Grain Farming/Soil Conservation.  The model represents cereal and
oilseed production in the humid Pampa. The 175 ha farm grows 75 ha of wheat,
followed by soybeans as a second crop, 40 ha of maize, and 60 ha of soybeans as
a first crop. Current yields are 2.2 tons/ha for wheat, 4.3 tons/ha for maize,
and 2.2 tons/ha for soybeans (2.0 tons/ha as second crop). However, poor
farming practices have contributed to problems in soil conservation which
undermine the long-term fertility of the farm land. The proposed development
plan would be based on improved tillage practices and the introduction of



-67 -                            MNNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
fertilizer and agro-chemicals use to increase yields. Investments would include
replacing a 100 hp tractor and purchasing a tine plough to substitute for the
existing chisel plough and enable the farmer to practice minimum tillage
techniques. The less costly tine plough would lower the initial cost of
investment, totaling about US$25,000, and, although fertilizer and chemical use
would increase operating costs, less costly land preparation would keep this
increase below 4Z. Yields are expected to increase to 2.6 tons/ha wheat, 4.7
tons/ha maize, and 2.5 tons/ha soybeans. The internal rate of return for the
farm development plan is 19Z (Table 1). Based on a 15? cost of capital,
switching values are -liZ for benefits and +13? for costs. Sensitivity tests
indicate that without the recent reduction in export taxes on grains the IRR for
proposal investments would have been only 15.5?.
5.       Fruit Orchard.  The farm model illustrates an 18 ha apple/pear
plantation in the Rio Negro Valley with an average-to-low productivity of 25
tons/ha, with 30X of output suitable only for industrial use. The proposed farm
development plan would replant 2 ha with improved early varieties, and improve
overall orchard management. Apart from tree establishment, investments would
include the replacement of an inefficient chemical sprayer, which would result
in lower application costs for the entire plantation. Overall, investment would
cost about US$12,000 over 5 years of the establishment and annual operating
costs would decliae by 2Z at full development. Anticipated benefits are the
increased commercial quality of fruit from the existing 16 ha and a yield of 50
tons/ha of export quality fruit from the new 2 ha. The estimated internal rate
of return is 192, with robust switching values of over 100? for benefits and
costs (Table 2).
6.       Beef Cattle.  The analysis is based on a model representing cattle
raisins; in the sub-tropical Northeast. The 3,000 ha ranch supports 500 hd on
natural pastures with shortages of forage occurring in the June-September
period. Under the current production system, cattle are raised and kept until
4-5 years before being sold off. The development plan would seek to improve
productivity by increasing the availability of on-farm forage, particularly
during the winter months, and reorient the production system by specializing in
breeding activities. The total cost of investment would be US$52,000 over 3
years. To increase forage production, 40 ha would be cleared, planted with
perennial forage grasses, and fenced off. All told, the carrying capacity is
expected to increase from .14 to .21 animal units per hectare by year 9. Other
investments would include watering facilities, and corrals for servicing and
calving. Animal health practices would also be intensified. As a result, the
calving rate is expected to increase from 45Z to 70? by year 7, and calf
mortality would decline from 10? to 3Z by year 8. Male calves would be sold off
during April-May and cows, benefiting from increased forage availability, would
be culled at a higher weight. The expected internal rate of return to planned
investments is 22?, with switching value of -30? for benefits and +42Z for costs
(Table 3).
7.       Dairy Farm.  This model illustrates dairy production in the province of
Cordoba under temperate, sub-humid climatic conditions. The dairy herd of 100
hd includes 47 cows, 30 milking at 3,830 ltlyear and 17 dry. On-farm forage
production from 77 ha provides for about 90Z of feed requirements. The farm
development plan calls for a significant improvement in production technology to
a level already being achieved in farms operating under similar conditions.
Investments, which would total US$22,000 over three years, include upgrading and



- 68 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
expanding the area under permanent pasture, fencing, corrals, watering
facilities, and milking machinery and installations. Together with improved
herd management and animal health, these investments would enable the farmer to
increase the productivity of his milking cows to 5,110 lt/year and improve
milkfat content from 3.22 to 3.3Z. Greater forage availability during the
winter months would allow him to increase production in this period and achieve
a higher price for his output. Similarly, better sanitary conditions would
increase premiums for the milk sold. The internal rate of return on proposed
investments is 402, with switching values of -342 for benefits and +512 for
costs (Table 4).
8.       Sheen Raising.  The model represents a 30,000 ha ranch located in the
Central Mesa of Santa Cruz in the Patagonia region. Increased productivity of
the 5,000 hd flock is limited by insufficient forage, particularly in dry years,
resulting in poor levels of nutrition and overgrazing. The investment plan,
totalling US$53,000 over three years, would seek to intensify wool production by
initially reducing the flock size to 4,250 hd, thereby lowering the stocking
rate from .17 hd/ha to .14 hd/ha, building up forage reserves over four years,
and improving a 2,500 ha section of the ranch with fencing and watering
facilities. In order to fully exploit the higher and more stable nutritional
level of the flock, improved merino rams would be purchased, animal health
practices would be intensified, and the culling process would benefit from
scales and laboratory analysis. By year 6 it is expected that the dirty wool
yield would increase from 3 kg/ha to 4.1 kg/hd and the clean wool yield from 46Z
to 52Z. The estimated internal rate of return is 322; expected benefits would
have to decline 36Z or costs increase 572 before the IRR would fall below 152
(Table 5).
9.       On-Farm Storage.  This model illustrates an investment in on-farm grain
silo storage of 1,000 tons costing US$137,000. In drier, grain-producing areas
the farmer would avoid investment in costly drying equipment and with 400+ ha
under grains would be able to utilize the storage capacity twice a year.
Expected benefits include eliminating post-harvest losses equivalent to 202 of
the crop and receiving a 62 real increase in the price for production sold after
two months of storage. Under these assumptions, thesinternal rate of return on
investment would be 19Z, with switching values of -39Z for benefits and +652 for
costs (Table 6).
10.      Cooperative Storage.  The model represents investment by a cooperative
in the construction of a 10,000 ton capacity grain storage facility costing
about US$770,000. The facility would be operated on a consignment basis with
drying charges and storage fees of 3Z of value per month after 30 days.
Assuming a turnover of 2.5 times storage capacity, the estimated internal rate
of return would be 222, with switching values of -32Z for benefits and +47Z for
costs (Table 7).
11.      Fruit Packing.  The model represents an investment in a fruit
packing/cold storage plant with a 10,000 ton capacity and cold storage for 5,000
tons at a cost of US$1.7 million. Located in the Rio Negro Valley, the plant
would benefit from readily available supplies of apples and pears and access to
the port in San Antonio Oeste. Production is expected to reach full capacity by
year 4. The marketing plan projects 602 of output to be sold domestically and
402 to be exported. On this basis, the internal rate of return is 41Z, with
switching values of -322 for benefits and +472 for costs (Table 8).



- 69 -
RlBlIIIR                                                       ANNEX  8
hICTETU        CREDIT PIWECT II                                             - -
Imestrnt Iodels                                                 Table  1
Cereals/Soil Constration - finncial Analysis
(Rug, 1987 Austrules)
0        1         2          3          4           5          6        7        8        9       l1
IWLUI
Value of Production  109,205  109,205    113,966    118,728     123,490     124,760  124,760  124,760  124,760  124,760  124,760
SAIUe                           4,90                                                                                      11,4
Total                109,205  114,105    113,966    116,728     123,490     124,760  124,760  124,760  124,760  124,760  1t3,160
IncrenentuI                0    4,900      4,762      9,524      14,286      15,555   15,55    15,555  15,555   15,555   33,955
oumsLu
Inuestnts                  0   49,735
Operating Costs       67,299   67,299     68,815     69,394      69,972      70,133   70,133   70,133   70,133   70,133   70,133
Total                 67,299 117,034      68,815     69,394      69,972      70,133   70,133   70,133   70,133  70,133   70,133
Incruntal                  0   49,735      1,516      2,095       2,673       2,834    2,834    2,834    2,834    2,834    2,834
NET OIITS
0Erru nmwis
total                 41,906   (7,929)   45,152      49,335      53,518      54,627   54,627   54,627   54,627  54,627   73,027
Increental                    (",835)      3,246      7,429      11,612      12,721   12,721   12,721   12,722   12,722   31,122
nEN"CINS
Oibursoent A1             70   34,015
End of Yew                     34,815     34,915     29,15       20,81S     10,815       (1)
Principl                                              5,000       9,000      10,000   10,815
Interest                                   5,222      5,m         4,472       3,122    1,622       (0)
0.15
NET B FTS
AfTER rICIUI
Total                 41,90    26,985     39,929     39,113      40,046      41,505   42,190   54,627   54,627   54,627  73,027
Increnental                   (14,921)   (1,976)    (2,793)      (1,860)       (401)    28t  127        12,722   12,722   31,122
INTOERIl RATE of REIURN
Before finncing         18L
After rinacing          17.4
oumber 6,1987
/1 701 of inuestnt.



- 70 -
N11IMF                                             ANNEX 8
NtLTS  MET    11                                          Table 2
~P1~'W     l         rrlnz   Imipu
(Jam 1987    trles)
0       1         2         3         4           5         6        7        9       9      10-20
IVLW ~ ~ ~       ~          ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~         __
Ualue of kktion  69,092  69.092    61,969    63,969         63,969      63,969  67,557  71.14   71,733  79,321  01,909
Totd               69,092  69,02    61.959    63,969        63,99       63,969  6?,557   71,1S5  79,733  78.321   1t,909
ir a                    0        0    (t,233)   (S,123)    (5.123)    (5.,1    (1,535!)  2,053   5,61    9,22   12,81?
OUTPII
Inunut                  0  14,O5        1,919     1,114      1,97          319
Opeating Cuits      46,036  40,038    43,51?    43,51?      43,517      43,517  45,9II 46,1se  46,691  4?,121   47,168
tOl                48,03   62,043    45,435    "4,91        45,389      43,066   45,90  46.159  46,691  47,121  47,168
icrum                   0        0    (2,603)   (3,107)    (2,650)    (4,172) (2,19) (1.,0Q) (1,347)   (917)   (70)
NET MIEETS
INQE flIU 
Totd an2,o4s    7,019    16,421    19,039                    19,591     20,103  21,67?  24,987  28,042  31,200  34,741
1=rm tl                 0  (l4,10)   (4,630)   (2,016)    (2,3)           (91)    623   3,933   6,992  10,146  13,59?
Lmow
bidiut A1                    9,9Qt      1,343
End   Yer                    9,604    11,146      9,146      7,146       4,646   2,146
Princtpd                                          2,000      2,00Q       2,50Q    2,500   2,146
Intret                                  1,471     1,672      1,372       1,072     697      322
0.15
NETIER   ISCI
NTR rINc
Total               21,54  16,95       17,76?    15,366      15,2Q9     16,531   19,490  ?2,519  29,042  31,200  34,741
Inr tal                     (4,20      (3,26?)   (5,6t9)    (5,845)    (4,523) (2,574)  1,165   6,98  10,146   13,69?
INIT  NYE Qr REI
Before rluAing       19.1
After finaicAng      20.9
uver 30,1987
A1 ?01 of leent.



- 71 -
ICUCIRIIIII        pgj mm  n                                                    ANNEX  8
lhtJat WS                                                                    Table 3
L*M  CI.rlq/nht Cattle  flraail  hdplu
Ohy 1567 hutrules)
0       1        2       3        4. S             6        7       6        9      10       11
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      6
Value of Podution  19,742   23,09  33,629  3,?0   41,461   n,62   41,193  47B,134   SQ.6t3   4.9N   61.23t  S1.23t
Stocks                                                                                                            3t,99
Total               19,42  23,09    ,629  36,02?   1,161  1,62   41,793   7,134   9,60   44,566  6138   90,10
Invetnt              3,20   23,606  21,20  16,32   11,38   11,160    5,82    7,13   1,31    1,2I            7,780   1,2
Operating Cast     14,4     19,214  20,3    a,21,121   1,Ot?  23,620   22,93  23,461  23,67  23,32  24,84    23,976
lotd                17,64t  42,614  49,120  37,ttl  29,64?  3,tD    2t8,733  30,601   3,227  24,662  31,69    25,256
Kr EQr
Total               2,096 (19,065) (6,451) (1,110  11,613  14,899  13,C0   16,3   16,376  2,9    19,405  64,912
I 1ret                     (21,90  (17,59) (3,512)  9,616  12,N7?  16,962  14,4     14,278  1t,1t6  17,312  62,64
Disbursmnts A               17,022  20,905  13,795
Cod of Yar                  17,022  37,027  46,624   4,124  36,124  33.124  24,124  13,624           0 
Principl                                      5,008   2,00   6,000   S,010   9,31   10,50   13,624            0
Interest                              2,653   5,67N   6,999   6,619   5,719   4,969   3,619   2,0"            0        0
0.15
AflER FINCIK
Totd a2,05   (2,7)  2,761    1,710   2,120   2,2S    2,3t1   2,56t   2,257   4,576   19,4    64,932
Irentad                     (4,661)    663    (366)       22     1n       299     t67      16Q  2,t4    17,311   62,63
INYEEIIR  PrcE fr ETS
Before fin.cAng      21.7
Rfter Financing      35,
A Incrs    value df dsas
./2 fig of incru,ntd twm     t and   eang  costs.



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Table 4
"MINA
rlcultura  Creit Project 1I
Iw-Atiit  iadels
Dairy Vai-nmnil Anlyala
(Hay 1987 Rustrales)
0       1        2       3        4       5        6                9     9         10
hlu of Preodtcton  23,944  23.9n   27,424  33,999  40,341  4t,926   47,499  47499   47,499  47,499  47,499
Total               23,944   23,94t  27,2t  33,898  40,341  45,926    ,499   47,49   47,499   47,499  47,499
Iruutal                          0   3,t40   9,943   16,397  21,982   23,554   23,54  23,55   23,554  23,554
QUTfLQI
Qpiting Cost
UlthAut             12,70?  11,20Q   11,249  11,096  12,391   12,125   9,645  18,451   12,088  11,790   11,790
vith               12,707  12,146   12,5i9   11,i Q   14.791   15,694   13,99?  14,97   14,466   15,472  ts,472
Irmtd                          93    1.341       9t   2,401   3,559   1,262   4,495   2.457    3,602   3,692
Inuwnt                      1,1861  12,70?   3,190
KrE nwma
Total               11,239  (3,063)  2,129  19,519  25,556  30,243  33,592  32,552   33,033  32,02?  32.0?
Inoremtd                   (1S,799) (10,56?)  6,660  13,99   18,423   19,292  19,0F    21,09?  19,972   19,972
ris
hlsdrumt /1                  9,917   7,62t
n of YO ar                   9,917  16,541   13,041    5,041      (1)      (1)
PrIipd                                        3,500   9,000   5,041
Intre                                 1,33?   2,t41   1,956      ?56       (0)
0.15
VET 1T                                                                                                                                  I
V!CR nfI
taWl                11,239   5,954   9,416  13,537  15,608  24,4%   33,592  32,552   33,033  32,02?  32,027
Irmnt                       (6,093) (4,291)    679   4,040   12,626  19,293  19,059  21,097  19,972  19,972
1h NTYE 0f 1IM
hifat Via.tcit         0.5
Ater Fin gIo         53.0
ft 62 of imeat



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Table 5
-TI,
!LflERM  CEMT P10ECC  11
Invaent  Mels
.She biting - financid Mnsis
Hay 1997 PrIcM )
0       1        2        3       4        5        6        7       9        9       l1
Vlue of Prduction  53,50t  91,19?  66,712  6?,979   70,399  76,09t  79,079   76,555   75,162   75,164  75,109
lotd                53,50    91,197  65,712   67,979   79,399  76,09    79.079   76.555   75,162  ?5,164  75,109
Invitent             2,?60   36,516  21,240   19,260      90   1,920    1,990    1,900   1,900   1,900    1,900
Operating Cost      35,476   41,596  40,595   1,148  41,57    41,923   41,40   41,90?  41,975   41,971   1l,971
Total               39.236   ?8,112  61,935   60,410  42,473   43,743  43,992  43,70?    3,675   43,671   43,671
NET BEOEIT
BEF! flHKKIHS
Total               15,269    3,95   3,977    ?,S70   27,925   32,351   35,196  32,99   31,?797  31,193   31,439
Incrntal                    (12,193) (11,392) (7,6w) 12,656   17,083  19,929  17,57?   16,519  16,224   16,170
Oisbrseents Q1 10,955  10,620    9,630
End of Year                  10,955  21,575   30,295  22,295   10,205       (0)      (0)      (0)     (0)      (0)
Repnets
Principal                                      1,000    9,000  12,000   10,205
Interest                              1,643    3,236   1,53     3,331    1,531       (0)      (0)     (0)      (0)
.1S
NET BENIT
RlTER f CIRMS
Total               15,269   14,040  12,953   12,963  15,391. 17,020   23,461   32,9J18  31,77   31,493   31,439
Incrental                    (1,229) (2,115) (2,395)    126   1,752    8,193   1?,57.    16,518  !6,224   16,170
INTERNl PATE OF Rm1
Before Finacing       31.6
After financIn        57.6
.1 30  of inetent in ywr 1 and 50? in yars 2 and 3.



- 74 -
ANNE 8
Table 6
R6ENTIiU
SRICULUllft  CREDIT   JECT 11
Investment odes
OrrrFm Storage-1.0 Tons
(Augut 1997  ustralie)
1       2       3        4       S        6       ?        8     9-25
IM
Losses Averted t1          39,750  39.750  39,750  39,758  39.?50  39,?50  39,?50   39.750
bprovjed Price 12          13,913  13,913  13,913  13,913  13,913  13,913  13,913  13,913
Total                      53,663  53,663  53,663  53.663  53,663  53,663  53,663  53,663
G1iTFlal
Invutmnt         226,786
Operating Costs            10,296  10.286  10,296  19,296   10,2    10,.28   10,296  10,,28
Total  st        226.78   10,296  10,216  10,286  10,286  10,286  10,296  10,286  10,286
liET IEEflTS
F091E 1E1MCIS
Total            226786) 4337?  4f,37?  13,377   43,377  43,377  43.377   3,377   43,3.7
Eqtdt rianng
Loan:
Disburseat /3   159,52Q
End of Yar       159,520 141,528 121,020   9?,20  7Q,52Q  39,020   3,020          0
Principal                  19,OQ    20,600  23,500  27,000  31,SD  36,000   3,020
Interest                   23,929  2!,229   19,153  14,629  10,57e   5,9s3      153        0
0.15
fill 81117f115
AFTER r!HiHC1ffi
Total            (67,266)  1,49   1,649   1.724   1,74t99I.m          1,524  39.90   43,377
INHIEIL PRTE ff  llUE|
Bftore Ffinacing    18.9
After finang        2.2
Septenber 30,1987
.1 20? Of avest.
/2 6L real price increase over tuo months.
3 70m of invetnt nd uwring upital.



- 75 -
ami
CtMIU 1m Fcr 11
H IC stI t Nodels                                          ANNEX  8
Coopratite Grain Stease 10,0  Tons                                    Table  7
(Ruut 1!? fustrules)
1         2          3          4          5          6        7       9      9-24      2S
IWLA
fees and Dtege                 499,09    499,00      499,99      199,0    49,09   499,09   499,01  49,09   4'990
Saluage                                                                                                     426,405
Total                          4,01    49,91         4,1        409149,1  4 ",9   49,1  49,09   92,496
OIJTTLW
Investmnts        ,272,620
Operating Cuts                 211,213   211,213    t11,213    t11.213  211,213  211,213  211,213  211,213  2t,2t13
Total Costs       1,272,620    211,213   211,213    211,213    211,213  211.213  211,213  211.213  211,213  211,213
Ill 9tiEVlfls
Total            (1,M,620)  297,867   297,867    297M.6?    297,96? 297,86? 297,867 297,676257,96?  714,272
Net of Taxes     (172,6M 0)  27,99    M,997    M,97   2m1,99? 271,99? 271,997 27t1,997 21,9761,416
FIlCIK
Loo
Olomrseent A1       934,793
End of Yew          934,793   9M4,793   t4,t93    624,793    49,793  32M,793 142,793             0       0
Repa,ent!
Principl                        90,000   1Q,000      1120C,     140,00   160,000  192,000  142,793
Interest                       140,219   126,719    111,719      93,719   72,719  48,719   21,419        0
0.15
K?SNET   YS
fTER FIHECINS
Net of Tlxes       (337,82?)   41,679    45,179       40,179     39,179   39,178   41,178  107,686  271,97  671,416
MiERL RATES ff  rfN
Before finling          !.S5
Ofter rinaing          26.4
Setember 38,1997
1 70M  of imnsaint and  orkng catal



- 76 -
RENTIIIp                                                           ANNEX  8
KR6llTURll NU0!T P8E0C  11                                                Table. 8
Invenmt Iduls
fruit Pacing - fimndcal  nysis
ay 196? Rustrdes)
1        2         3                   5 S      6-14      1S
Export Sales               1,t66,336 2,055,670  2.936,672 2,936,6?72  ,936,672  2,936,672
Ownestic Sales             2,28,65 3,11,611  1,563,?30 t,563,7?30  ,563,?30 t,563,73Q
Saluge  alue                                                                   911,225
Total                      3,7?0,201 5,250,291  ?,SOO,402 7,500,402 ?,5DO,tOt 9,141,62?
Inwstnent         2,802,676
Operating Costs            2,990,532 3,975Q010  5,10Q,S41  5,100,041 5,100,041 5,100,0
2,802,6?5 2,980,532 3,875,010  5,100Qi'1  5,10Q,Ol 5,10,0t1  5,100,0'1
NOt 0MI
BEf0PR fl!"IP8
lota!            (2,802,6?5) 8069,669 1,375,72  2,400,31  2,400,361  2,t00,361  3,344,586
Net of Taxe      (2,002,675) 582,679   921.432  1,608,2'? 1,608,2U2  1,608,2t2 2,240.973
Equity Finarcing
Lu -
Loan!
Disburmsnt 't    1 ,91,873
End of Year       1,961,873 1,X1,873  1,511,873    511,872       0
Repaynet:
Principd                               1S5,000  1 ,00,O   511,972
Iterest                      291,1    29t,281    226,791    76,781         0
0.1_
tEl BENEFT
AfTEP FIMCIR
Net of Taxes       (84,8Q3) 385,510   422,75t    786,299 1,213,8tt 1,608,242 2,t40.8?3
INTERNL PRAES Or RETl
efre financing        41.8
After fincing         76.4
/1 70M of lnweshent.



- 77 -
ANNEX 9
ARGENTINA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT II
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
Programa de Credito Agricolat Maquinarias, Implementos, y Almacenamiento
de Granos
Anexo   I  -  El Sector Agropecuario Argentino
II  -  La Produccion de Cereales y Oleaginosos
III - El Credito Agropecuario
IV  -  Conservacion de Suelos
V - Maquinaria Agricola
VI  - Almacenamiento de Granos
VII - Modelos de Explotacion
Farm Models
- Investment Models (Revised)
- Produccion Ovina
- Ganadero con Desmonte
- Manzana y Pera
- Empaque y Frio para Pera y Manzana
- Lechero
- Almacenaje de Granos
Cereales y Oleaginosos Almacenamiento de Granos
Viabilidad Tecnica de la Produccion y Comercializacion de Frutas
Componente Seguimiento y Evaluacion
Price Indices
IDB Project Report:  Informe de Proyecto:  ARGEPTINA -
Program Global de Credito Agropecuario (AR-0071)



BOLIVIA                 /            0
i La         / Q                      PAAU
Cerons..l3MO                                                        >eroro 
j                    "~~~*    PARAGUAY
_    r-/  | TUCMA                RESISTENCI,    C> .  Posodo.    <        .rdod
i/                   _Sentroge del EsI.,o            CORRIENTe.r
C CATRAMARCA         1                                                             Z  I L
J   XSAN JUAN ~~~~~~~/ o n c o r d         g    o ~~~~ 1.JX                            30'
Concorde  t8.'.do d
1      ARENDOZA   SIAJlN5    '        OSARESAIS
orel Et                          URUGUAY 
C TAMLE SA TA A
A tz  ,   RIOJA                  OEL PLAA A
.30-                   SQ/'                        (0S{VIEDMA                               ARGENTINA                             '
n Corloode Borilecse              R                   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT 11
d \          ~~~~Peerle ModrynO
j  8Esonuel       Trelen.a
N.            RUENN  AiArea of the Pampa
T C H i3 (J T / ~~Major roadh3
L 4    PortP
t_ ) - COMODORO                                                 Province Boundaries
(t  /   IVADAVIA                          -+-~~~~~~~~~~Inter3naotional Boundaries
ne.                                                                                                                              so. .
nr a ,,, "~~~ TI2E R RA  DEEL
g a~~~~~~r ~~~f UEC'O
CO,p0We, Thr r00Wdtoa.
rsornenlrCr*wdra         ._                            ~~~~~~~KILOMEtERS 0  200       400        600       800
o 0dn     Fewe Co.n0b_                                                                     _    _   _    _    _   _    _   _
.voP'wlr on' t oS 5050.10
40                                                             IEDMARVG                                  N MILES 0  1   200  300  400  500
IOZ t                             75'           60                                             50-
NOVEMBER 1 987



