Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2970 AR
(Agricultural Credit Project II)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 18, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2970 AR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1988, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Banco de la Nacion Argentina (the Borrower), having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 
2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to  assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the  
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in  various  currencies 
equivalent to one hundred and six million five hundred thousand dollars 
($106,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in 
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of  the Loan 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the  Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement: (a) the Guarantor specifically undertakes,  whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the  Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with  such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall promptly compensate the Borrower for any losses incurred 
by the Borrower when repaying the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Loan Account on account of changes between  the rate of exchange of 
the dollar and the currencies of the Central Disbursement Account referred to in 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions, to the extent that such losses cannot be 
covered by the proceeds of the Currency Risk Fund.
     (c)  For purposes of defining the amount and modality of the obligations of the 
Guarantor under paragraph (b) of this Section, the Guarantor, not later than May 31, 
1989, shall enter into an agreement (the Currency Risk Agreement), satisfactory to the 
Bank, with the Borrower.
     (d)  The Guarantor shall duly  perform all of its obligations under the Currency 
Risk Agreement. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Guarantor shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Currency Risk Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
     Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall exchange views with the Bank and the  Borrower 
on the results of the review of the appropriateness of the interest  rates on 
Participating Loans and Sub-loans and the Contributions to the Currency Risk Fund 
carried out pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part B of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out, through SAG, Part B of the  Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative 
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part B of the
Project.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
required for Part  B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of  the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
Page  3
     (b)  In order to assist the Guarantor in the carrying out of Part B of  the 
Project, the Guarantor shall employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the  Bank. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 3.03. The Guarantor, through SAG, shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor  shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of  amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
any provision thereof.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Guarantor, through SAG, shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules and records and reports) in 
respect of the Guarantee Agreement and Part B of the Project.
     (b)  Without  limitation to the foregoing, the Guarantor, through SAG, shall: (i) 
coordinate  with the Borrower the preparation of the completion report referred to in 
Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions; and (ii)  prepare and furnish to the Bank 
not later than June 30 and December 31 each year, a report of such scope and detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request on the progress of the Execution of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor, through SAG, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance  with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the  Guarantor responsible for 
carrying out of Part B of the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Guarantor, through SAG, shall:
          (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures under Part B of the Project with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements  of 
expenditure, the Guarantor, through SAG, shall:
          (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such  
expenditures;
         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
        (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and  
         (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the  
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Page  4
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 5.01. The Minister of Economy of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Ministerio de Economia
          Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
                                            Telex:
                                            121952-AR
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                    440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
                                             64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                     THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                     By /s/ Jorge Sakamoto
Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ Shahid S. Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
