Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2970 AR
(Agricultural Credit Project II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE LA NACION ARGENTINA
Dated Novembaer 18, 1988
 LOAN NUMBER 2970 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO DE LA NACION ARGENTINA (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) The Argentine Republic (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development  Bank 
(IDB) a Loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to $105,000,000, to assist in the 
financing of Part A of the Project, on the terms and conditions  set forth in an 
agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and IDB;
     (C)  by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such  other obligations as set forth 
in the Guarantee Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set  forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "Austral" means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
     (b)  "Regulations" means the credit regulations approved by the Board of 
Directors of  the  Borrower by Resolution dated March 17, 1988, for purposes of the 
Project;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this  
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and "Subsidiary Loan" means 
the Loan provided to the Guarantor under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Financial Intermediary" means the Borrower, when making Sub-loans (as such 
term is hereinafter defined) or any credit institution which: (i) has been approved by 
the Borrower and the Bank to participate in the carrying out  of Part A of the Project 
on the basis of the criteria set forth in the Regulations; and (ii) has entered or 
proposes to enter into a Participation Agreement (as such term is hereinafter defined) 
with the Borrower on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
     (e)  "Participation Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each Financial Intermediary pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
     (f)  "Participating Loan" means the Loan made or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower to a Financial Intermediary under a Participating 
Agreement for purposes of Part A of the Project;
     (g)  "Investment Enterprise" means a person or a group of persons, a  
cooperative, a producers association or any other entity having juridical capacity 
under the laws of the Guarantor to enter into contractual arrangements  for purposes 
of Part A of the Project, who are predominantly engaged in agricultural activities and 
to which a Financial Intermediary has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan (as such 
term is hereinafter defined);
     (h)  "Investment Project" means a specific development project carried out or to 
be carried out by an Investment Enterprise including, acquisition and   utilization of 
modern new agricultural machinery and equipment, livestock  development, construction 
of on- and off-farm  grain storage facilities, land improvements, permanent 
plantations, agro-processing facilities, and short-term inputs complementary to such 
investments;
     (i)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Intermediary out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an 
Investment Project;
     (j)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a 
free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
     (k)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
     (l)  "SAG" means Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Pesca, the Guarantor's 
Page  3
Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries;
     (m)  "Apex Unit" means the unit to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
     (n)  "Currency Risk Fund" means the fund to be established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement;
     (o)  "Charter" means the Carta Organica of the Borrower, set forth in Law  No. 
21799, published in the Boletin Oficial of June 16, 1978, as amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
     (p)  "Currency Risk Agreement" means the agreement between the Guarantor and the 
Borrower referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of the Guarantee Agreement and Section 4.03 
(e) of this Agreement;
     (q)  "Cost of Funds" means the average interest rate resulting from the interest 
rates applicable to the IDB Loan and the IBRD Loan during the first six months or the 
second six months of each year; and
     (r)  "Account Bank" means the bank, satisfactory to the Bank, where the Special 
Account is to be maintained by the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred and six million five hundred thousand dollars 
($106,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank in the 
Account Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special  Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost  of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
Page  4
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by
               the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
Part A of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs  in accordance with sound 
administrative and financial standards and practices,  with qualified management and 
personnel, and in accordance with the Charter and the Regulations, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend to the Guarantor, for purposes of Part B of the 
Project, the amounts allocated from time to time to Category (2) in the table of 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a Subsidiary Loan  Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Guarantor, through SAG, which shall have 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall enter  into a Participation Agreement with each Financial 
Intermediary willing to participate in the execution of Part A of the Project, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set  forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower shall utilize the proceeds accrued to the Borrower from the 
repayment of principal of Participating Loans and Sub-loans which are not  required 
for purposes of repayment of principal of the Loan, exclusively for  making loans for 
the same purposes, and under similar terms and conditions as those set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement and the Regulations.
     (e)  The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations under the Currency 
Risk Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and each Participation  Agreement. 
Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Currency Risk Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, a 
Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain for purposes of Part A of the 
Project an administrative unit (the Apex Unit) with functions, staffing and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall provide the Apex Unit with the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the timely and efficient discharge of its 
functions.
     Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provision of Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later than February 28 and August 31 each  year, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the progress of the  execution of Part A 
of the Project during the immediately preceding semester  ending two months before 
that date, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, such report 
to include information on amounts committed and disbursed under Sub-loans, number and 
type of Sub-loans,  repayments and arrears under Sub-loans and Participating Loans, 
and financial  report on the Currency Risk Fund.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) review not later than April 30 and October 
31 of each year the appropriateness of the interest rates on  Participating Loans and 
Sub-loans and of the contributions to the Currency  Risk Fund; (b) exchange views with 
the Guarantor and the Bank on the results of such review; and (c) revise such interest 
rates to ensure that such interest rates are, in the Bank's opinion, sufficient  to 
cover the Borrower's cost of Loan funds and administration and are suitable to attain 
Page  5
the objectives of the Project.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the 
Regulations.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii)  achieve the purposes 
of the Project.
     Section 3.06. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement and Section 3.02 of the Guarantee Agreement.
     Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower, through the Apex Unit, shall carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the  
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall coordinate with SAG 
the preparation of the completion report referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 9.07 
of the General Conditions.
     Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower, through the Apex Unit, shall take  actions, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to promote the participation of Financial  Intermediaries in 
the execution of Part A of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall include in the reports referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement information, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall  reasonably 
request, on the action taken pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and separate records and 
accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A of the  Project and of 
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) 
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained  sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement,
               its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
               statements of income and expenses and related statements) and
               records and accounts for the Special Account and the Currency
               Risk Fund for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound
               auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
               later than four months after the end of each such year: (A)
               certified copies of said financial statements for such year as
               so audited; and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said
               records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof
               as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (b)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement,
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  6
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained by the Financial Interme-
               diaries until at least one year after the Bank has received
               the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable and cause the Financial Intermediaries to enable the
               Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and
               that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by
               said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
               procedures and internal control involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to 
protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange 
between the currencies (including the currency of the Guarantor) used in its 
operations.
     (b)  As part of the foregoing, the Borrower shall establish not later than May 
31, 1989, and thereafter maintain a separate fund (the Currency Risk Fund) on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with the sole purpose of providing resources 
to the Borrower to cover any amounts to be paid by the Borrower as a result of 
differences between the adjustment of principal of the
Participating Loans and similar loans under the IDB Loan made by the Borrower and the 
amounts to be paid to the Bank and IDB under the Loan, pursuant to the provisions  of 
Article IV of the General Conditions, and under the IDB Loan,  pursuant to the IDB 
Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall retain and deposit promptly into the Currency Risk Fund a 
part of the amounts collected by the Borrower as interest on  Participating Loans, 
Sub-loans and loans made under the IDB Loan, such part to be initially equivalent to 
two percentage points and to be revised by the Borrower in terms satisfactory to the 
Bank after each revision of interest rates made pursuant to Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower shall: (i) maintain separate records and accounts for the 
Currency Risk Fund; and (ii) manage the Currency Risk Fund in accordance  with sound 
administrative and financial practices set forth in a Regulation satisfactory to the 
Guarantor and the Bank (the Currency Risk Regulation).
     (e)  Not later than May 31, 1989, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement, 
(the Currency Risk Agreement) satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor for 
purposes of Section 2.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement.
     (f)  The Borrower shall: (i) issue the Currency Risk Regulation, not later than 
February 28, 1989; and (ii) except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall  otherwise 
agree, not amend, abrogate or repeal the Currency Risk Regulation.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the  
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if an event  
specified in paragraph (b) shall have occurred and be continuing, the   suspension of 
the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited by the 
Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures  related to Financial 
Intermediary or Financial Intermediaries in question:
     (a)  that the Charter or the Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations 
or the financial condition of the Borrower or its  ability to carry out the Project or 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement;
     (b)  a Financial Intermediary shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under a Participation Agreement; 
Page  7
     (c)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
              (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the
              IDB Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
              whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan
              Agreement, or
              (B)   the IDB Loans shall have become due and payable prior to
              the agreed maturity thereof. 
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
               Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:
               (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
               is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
               its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
               for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
               sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
               of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
     (a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower's Board of Directors has established the Apex Unit; and
     (b)  IDB has notified the Bank that all conditions precedent to the first 
disbursement of the IDB Loan have been fulfilled, subject only to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, with the  
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the  opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank; namely, that the Apex Unit has been duly 
established in accordance to the Charter of the Borrower.
     Section 6.03. The date February  20, 1989 is hereby specified for purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                  440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
Page  8
                                           64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de la Nacion Argentina
          Bartolome Mitre 326
          Buenos Aires
          Argentina
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               BANCNACION                 39018141
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the  parties  hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
                        BANCO DE LA NACION ARGENTINA
                        By /s/ Hernan Carlos Naveyra
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans               105,000,000        41% of the amounts
                                                disbursed under a
                                                Sub-loan
(2)  Goods and                 1,500,000        100%
     Consultants'
     Services for
     Part B of
     the Project
          TOTAL              106,500,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
     (a)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been approved or authorized 
and made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and  conditions set forth 
or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Page  9
Agreement;
     (c)  in respect of a Sub-loan made by a Financial Intermediary, unless the Bank 
shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower  and such 
Financial Intermediary have entered into a Participation Agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, which is valid and binding upon the parties thereto, in accordance with its 
terms;
     (d)  in respect of Sub-loans made directly by the Borrower, as Financial 
Intermediary, if the aggregate amount disbursed under the Loan for Sub-loans made 
directly by the Borrower exceeds the equivalent of 80% of the amounts  allocated to 
Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 above; and
     (e)  in respect of Category (2) of  the table in paragraph 1 above, unless the 
Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Guarantor and 
the Borrower have entered into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  and such agreement is 
valid and binding upon the parties thereto, in accordance with its terms.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in Argentina as will contribute to the economic and social 
development of the country through modernization of the  farm machinery pool, 
livestock development construction of grain storage facilities, establishment of 
small-scale agro-processing facilities,  development of permanent plantations and 
adoption of cost effective and efficient technology consistent with growth, 
diversification and soil conservation; (ii) to foster increased participation by 
private and provincial banks in agricultural lending; and (iii) to improve the 
Guarantor's capabilities to monitor and evaluate agricultural lending.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
     The financing of specific development projects through loans to Investment 
Enterprises within the agricultural sector.
Part B:
     A program to improve the Guarantor's capabilities to monitor and evaluate, 
through its SAG, agricultural lending (including the Project) and its impact on the 
agricultural sector.
*     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1993
     through   June 15, 2003                       5,325,000
Page  10
__________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
     Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                         The interest rate (expressed as a
                                         percentage per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding on the Loan
                                         on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of the General Conditions
     For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The words "the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such  amount. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled" set forth 
at the end of Section 6.03 are deleted and the following  is substituted therefor:
               "or (f) by the date specified in subparagraph 3 (c) of Schedule
               5 to the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any
               portion of the Loan: (i) have received no applications or
               requests under subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or
               (ii) have denied any such applications or requests. The Bank
               may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the
               right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
               to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
               with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
               giving of such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall
               be cancelled."
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions
Page  11
of Participating Loans and Sub-loans
     The procedures for and the terms and conditions for Participating Loans and 
Sub-loans shall be those set forth in the Regulation and shall, inter alia,  include 
those set forth in this Schedule.
1.   (a)  Participating Loans shall be denominated in dollars and repayable in 
Australes;
     (b)  the repayment and grace periods applicable to each Participating Loan shall 
be substantially those of the Sub-loan being refinanced by such Participating Loan;
     (c)  the interest rate applicable to each Participating Loan shall be equal to 
the Cost of Funds plus a spread equal to not less 2 and not more than  4 percentage 
points, such spread to be reviewed and, if necessary, revised  from time to time as 
provided in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and
     (d)  each Participating Agreement shall include provisions enabling the Borrower 
to carry out its obligations under this Agreement and obliging the Financial 
Intermediary which is a party to such Participating Agreement, inter  alia: (i) to 
maintain and cause to be maintained procedures and separate  records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures of the Financial Intermediary and 
each Investment Enterprise with regard to Part A of the Project and the corresponding 
Investment Project, respectively; and (ii) to make Sub-loans in the manner and under 
the terms and conditions set forth in  this Schedule and the Regulations.
2.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by  the 
Bank and the disbursements by the Financial Intermediary under the Sub-loan  for such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty days prior to 
the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and information 
required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Sub-loan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account  and the 
disbursements by the Financial Intermediary under the Sub-loan for such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty days prior to the date on 
which the Bank shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such  free-limit Sub-loan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan  shall be a Sub-loan for an 
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which 
shall not exceed the sum of one million dollars equivalent, in the case of Investment 
Enterprises consisting of  individual natural or juridical persons or two million five 
hundred thousand  dollars equivalent in the case of Investment Enterprises consisting 
of  cooperatives or producer associations, when added to any other outstanding amounts 
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other 
loan, provided for in any outstanding loan agreement between the Bank and the Borrower 
or the Guarantor entered into before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which 
have been or are being used for financing  goods and services directly and materially 
related to such Investment Project.  The foregoing amounts being subject to change 
from time to time as determined by the Bank by notice to the Borrower, provided, 
however, that the first 3 Sub-loans made by the Borrower over $100,000 equivalent and 
the first Sub-loan  made by each Financial Intermediary other than BNA over $100,000 
equivalent  shall not be regarded as free-limit Sub-loans and the procedures in 
paragraph 3 of this Schedule shall apply.
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in  form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the  Investment 
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the  
schedule of amortization; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a  summary 
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  12
Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub-paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or before May 31, 1992 
or such date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank  shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and the Guarantor of such later date.
4.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediary shall  
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and 
the Financial Intermediary, including, the right to:
     (a)  require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with  sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency  and reliability of the 
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the 
case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; 
and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Borrower or the 
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants  and 
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof,  and any 
relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and  maintain 
with responsible insurers not related to Financial Intermediary such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall 
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or 
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency  freely usable 
by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower or the Financial 
Intermediary shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to  perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
SCHEDULE 6
Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
1.   Goods for Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods, works and services for Sub-projects under Part A of the 
Page  13
Project estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent shall be obtained at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other factors such as time  of delivery 
and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities 
and spare parts therefor and, in the case of works and services, of their quality and 
the competence of the parties rendering them.
Part D:
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract procured pursuant to Part A and Part C.1 
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made  out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments forsuch contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with  Section 4.02 (b) (ii) of this  Agreement and Section 4.01 (c) (ii) 
of the Guarantee Agreement.
2.   The figure of 20% is  hereby  specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 7
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Investment Projects and Part B of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this  Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 
(b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the 
Bank shall have authorized  withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such 
expenditures,  however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall 
subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to ten million 
five hundred thousand dollars to be withdrawn from the Loan Account  and deposited in 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent  
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation,  the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  14
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible  
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been  justified by 
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the  
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no further 
deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either  of the 
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
               should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
               in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
               Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
               or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
               eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special
               commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
               the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
               Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawals from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
