                    INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                            APPRAISAL STAGE

I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 07/24/2012                                    Report No.: AC6528
1. Basic Project Data
Original Project ID: P073206                 Original Project Name: LAND
                                             ADMINISTRATION AND
                                             MANAGEMENT II PROJECT
Country: Philippines                         Project ID: P127962
Project Name: Second Land Administration & Management Project (Additional
Financing)
Task Team Leader: Keith Clifford Bell
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 4,       Estimated Board Date: February 21, 2013
2012
Managing Unit: EASPS                         Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
                                             Loan
Sector: Central government administration (65%);Sub-national government
administration (30%);Tertiary education (5%)
Theme: Land administration and management (25%);Other public sector governance
(25%);Personal and property rights (24%);Other rural development (13%);Law reform
(13%)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):            61.47
IDA Amount (US$m.):              0
GEF Amount (US$m.):              0
PCF Amount (US$m.):              0
Other financing amounts by source:
         Borrower                                                      2.37
         Financing Gap                                                 0.00
                                                                       2.37
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                        Simple []           Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                  Yes [ ]     No [X]
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

2. Project Objectives
The project development objective is to improve land administration, valuation and real
property taxation systems. These will be achieved through:

 i) Establishing a fully functional land information system that satisfies the requirements
of both the national and the local governments, and is accessible to public and private
groups;
 ii) Accelerating the adoption of improved systems and procedures in valuation and RPT
towards enhanced capacity for revenue generation; and
 iii) Supporting LGU partnerships and broader stakeholders' participation in land titling
and valuation and RPT.

3. Project Description
The proposed Additional Financing (AF) loan will scale-up the key reforms under the
parent project on land information, property valuation and real property taxation (RPT).
These innovations have all been developed and fully tested under LAMP2 and are now
incorporated as key elements of the Philippines' Land Sector Development Framework
(LSDF), which is also under the Philippines Development Plan 2011-16 (PDP). In
particular, the project will help finance: (a) the national roll-out of the Land
Administration and Management System (LAMS) in the Land Management Bureau
(LMB) and 16 regional Land Management Services (LMS) offices of the Department of
Natural Resources and Environment (DENR), including the computerization of its land
records; and (b) nationwide roll-out of the Property Valuation Standards (PVS) to other
government agencies and institutions, and support a complete Province and its constituent
municipalities to implement improved procedures in property valuation and RPT as well
as provide valuation information systems to support the respective local government
units' (LGU) land and property appraisal systems. This national roll-out of LAMS and
computerization of land records complements the government's priority program on the
completion of cadastral survey of land parcels which is being funded separately by the
government in the amount of around US$170 million during 2012-14).

 Although the parent project had five components, activities under Components 1 and 2
will be completed by the end of 2012. The major LAMP2-AF investments are under
Component 3 Tenure Security (Land Information and Administration) and Component 4
Property Valuation and Taxation which are scaling up. In addition Component 5 Project
Management will continue. For simplicity and continuity, all activities to be undertaken
under LAMP2-AF will be under the enhanced Components 3, 4 and 5.

 Component 3: Tenure Security (Land Information and Administration). The objectives
of this component are to:(a) modernize the management of public lands records; (b)
provide cost effective access to land information; (c) improve delivery of land related
services; and (d) provide support to LGUs for land titling. The following activities would
be undertaken:

 • Computerization of land records which will be stored in LAMS;
 • Roll-out of fully functional LAMS in the 16 regions and the LMB;
 • Provision of land administration services to public/private clients and LGUs, including
applications for titles for alienable an disposable lands;
 • Provision of computerized verification system for land surveys;
 • Provision of digital cadastral index maps copies to the LGUs;and
 • Provision of training and technical support to LGUs implementing LGU-Led Titling
through the LMB and CLAMP.

 Component 4: Property Valuation and Taxation. The objectives of this component are
to:(a) mainstream the property valuation and real property taxation reforms to selected
LGUs, national government agencies, and the private sector, including the necessary
systems, methodologies, and technologies;(b) sustain these reforms through policy and
legislative action and institutional strengthening; and (c) broaden the foundations for
valuation education, professional development, and capacity development in the
academia and training providers. The following specific activities would be undertaken:

  • Rollout and mainstreaming of the PVS and the improved valuation and real property
taxation procedures and systems in: (i) one province (including its component
municipalities) for the full preparation of a market-based SMV; (ii) five additional LGUs
for the adoption of the valuation information system; and (iii) two national government
agencies (NGAs) for adoption of the PVS;

 • Institution of the improved procedures and systems on property valuation in the BLGF
Regional Offices;

 • Development of the monitoring system on the LGU revenue impact of land
administration and management reforms, and policy and training programs to support
improved local real property taxation;

  • Development of policy proposals and conduct of legislative and consensus building
activities to support the institutionalization of property valuation and real property
taxation reforms;

 • Information, education and communication campaign program conducted with
nationwide coverage to support the collective conduct o general revision of SMVs and
the imposition of idle land tax of LGUs, pursuant to DOF-DILG Joint Memorandum
Circular Nos. 2010-01 and 2010-02;

 • Delivery of additional valuation education and professional development programs in
support of the implementation of RESA; and

 • Support for the continuing development of the valuation profession, with local and
international linkages.

 Component 5: Project Management. The objectives of this component are to: (a)
continue effective project management; and (b) support the operationalization of the key
elements of the LSDF. The following activities would be undertaken:

 • Undertake project planning, monitoring and evaluation, fiduciary arrangements and
procurement;
 • Support the NSC; and

 • Coordinate and support the development of the government's future investment
direction on the land sector through the LSDF.
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
Component 3 will be rolled-out nationally, covering all regions except the Autonomous
Region in Muslim Mindanao (ARMM). This will ensure that the key investment
outcomes of Component 3, viz. computerization of all land records and mainstreaming of
LAMS, will complement the National Cadastral Surveying Program. Some support will
be provided for land administration and management capacity building in ARMM to
enable a future roll-out. For Component 4, given that the necessary requirements for
valuation and RPT have already been developed and successfully tested at the city level
under the original project, LAMP2-AF will cover implementation at the provincial level.
The selection of the province for roll-out will be on the basis of the successful
implementation of LGU-led titling and mapping activities under the parent project, which
means one of the three provinces of Bohol, Leyte and Bukidnon. It will also be important
that the selected province has strong support from the Provincial and Municipal LGUs. It
is noted that many of the LGUs in the three these provinces have already piloted and/or
put in place systems developed under LAMP 2. Bohol was even judged as the "Best
Governed Province in the Philippines in 2011".

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Josefo Tuyor (EASPS)
   Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro (EASPS)

6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                                Yes          No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                           X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                         X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                     X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                  X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                  X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                             X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                      X

II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
The project will only support soft activities such as the installation of a fully functional
land information and administration system and implementation of property valuation
and real property taxation, hence it is not expected to have any environmental and social
impacts.

 OP/BP 40.01. The parent project was assigned Environment category B because of the
anticipated civil works activities related to the construction of office buildings, field land
offices, adjudication centers and one-stop-shops. Environmental Management Guidelines
were prepared to address civil works impacts from the construction activities, although
during project implementation no construction took place and therefore the guidelines
were never used. For this additional financing, only soft activities will be supported such
as establishment of a fully functional land information and administration system and
property valuation and taxation. There will be no construction work, whether
rehabilitation or new construction, although there may be very minor refurbishments of
some offices to accommodate the information technology requirements. Therefore, the
additional financing will not pose substantial change in the overall project risks or
environmental categorization. Thus, the environmental category remains unchanged and
no new safeguard policies would be triggered.

 OP/BP 4.10. The parent project triggered the old Indigenous Peoples (IP) policy, OD
4.20, although it was always considered that it would be unlikely to impact IPs. Indeed
the parent project did not have any impact on IPs, although the titling activities in the
province of Bukidnon required an IP engagement because of the presence of IP
communities in the province, but not in the areas covered by the titling activities.
Although the additional financing will not support any construction or titling activities
and it is not foreseen to have any impacts on IPs and their ancestral domain, the parent
project's Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework was revised to meet the requirements of
OP/BP 4.10 that replaces OD 4.20. The framework was disclosed locally as well as in the
Bank's Infoshop.

 OP/BP 4.12. The parent project triggered this safeguard policy because of the
anticipated civil works, which did not take place. Hence, no Involuntary Resettlement
took place. The additional financing, like the parent project, is also not expected to have
any land acquisition and involuntary resettlement issues as there are no civil works that
will be supported.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
The project is expected to contribute to the improvement of the investment climate in the
Philippines and also in the conservation, protection and rehabilitation of critical
environment and natural resources by strengthening of the management of land resources
information and cadastral information for improved land administration services and
revenue collection.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
N/A

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
There are no new safeguards issues under the Additional Financing. In the unlikely event
that safeguards issues are met during the implementation the project will use the
Environmental Management Guidelines developed under the parent project and the AF's
updated Indigenous Peoples Policy Framework.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The borrower has conducted a series of discussions through workshops, with the various
stakeholders of the project to engage their participation in the planning of the project.
Those consulted included government agencies and local government units, expected to
participate in the roll out activities.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  02/18/2004
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              02/25/2004
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               07/11/2012
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  02/18/2004
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              02/25/2004
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               07/20/2012
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                   Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                  06/21/2012
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                              06/21/2012
  Date of submission to InfoShop                               06/21/2012
Pest Management Plan:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?
  Date of receipt by the Bank
  Date of "in-country" disclosure
  Date of submission to InfoShop
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?              No
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)          No
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the          N/A
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as                  Yes
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector        Yes
Manager review the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed   Yes
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process              No
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector        No
Manager review the plan?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's       Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a       Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities    Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project   Yes
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the           Yes
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the             Yes
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
documents?
  D. Approvals

Signed and submitted by:                              Name            Date
Task Team Leader:                   Mr Keith Clifford Bell          04/04/2012
Environmental Specialist:           Mr Josefo Tuyor                 04/04/2012
Social Development Specialist       Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro   04/04/2012
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                     Mr Mark C. Woodward             04/17/2012
  Comments:
