 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14769

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Philippines
             Project ID: P073206                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Land Administration           Project Costs (US$M):                      40.6               34.9
                         And Management Ii
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       19.0               15.3
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):                      19.31               15.3
                         Development
           Cofinanciers: Australian Agency for      Board Approval Date :                               05/31/2005
                         International                       Closing Date:          03/31/2011          03/31/2014
                         Development
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (65%); Sub-national government administration (30%);
                         Tertiary education (5%)
          Theme(s):      Other public sector governance (25%); Land administration and management (25%);
                         Personal and property rights (24%); Law reform (13%); Other rural development (13%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Soniya Carvalho         Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objective as stated in the Loan Agreement dated June 30, 2005 (p.21) is "to increase land
tenure security and improve the efficiency of the land titling and administration system".

The statement of the project objective in the Project Appraisal Document (p. 2) is "to increase land tenure security and
improve land administration services though the implementation of institutional and legal reform, the realization of an
accelerated land titling program, and the establishment of a fair and uniform property valuation system".

This ICR Review is based upon IEG’s assessment of the achievement of the project objective as formulated in the
legal document.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1: Development of Land Policy and Regulatory Framework (appraised US$2.3 million; actual n/a) was to
support: (a) policy, legislative and regulatory activities initiated under the first Land Administration and Management
Project (LAMP I), including the preparation of a comprehensive land administration law; (b) development of a land
management policy framework; and (c) transition to the new institution, i.e., the Land Administration Authority (LAA).

Component 2: Institutional Development and Capacity Building (appraised US$3.89 million; actual n/a)was to
support: (a) strengthening of existing land administration coordination arrangements; (b) improvement in the
transparency and accountability of land administration; and (c) establishment of an education program in land
administration and management in one of the national universities in the Philippines in order to strengthen land
administration expertise.

Component 3: Tenure Security (appraised US$21.51 million; actual US$24.12 million) included: (a) community
participation and awareness campaign; (b) issuing free-patent titles in rural and urban areas in up to four regions; and
(c) streamlining the guidelines to facilitate the acceleration of issuing land titles on demand. It also aimed to support
the establishment of functional land administration units at LGU-level, including One Stop Shops (OSS), as well as
development and monitoring of uniform service delivery standards.

Component 4: Property Valuation (appraised US$5.02 million; actual n/a) was to support the formation of a property
valuation unit in the Department of Finance (DoF) to develop guidelines for the adoption of international standards in
property valuation, to provide support for selected Local Government Units (LGUs) for the application of those
standards, and to support the development of an appropriate valuation professional body in the Philippines.

Component 5: Project Management (appraised US$5.84 million; actual n/a) provided support to the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and the Department of Finance (DoF) to manage the project, the
establishment and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, and technical assistance at all levels
to implement the project.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: The actual project cost was US$34.9 million, 86% of the appraised estimate of US$40.6 million.

Financing: IBRD Loan in the amount of US$19.0 million was disbursed at US$15.3 million by project closure.
US$3.64 million in loan funds were cancelled during project restructuring in 2010 as the scope of titling activities was
reduced due to delays in the passage of the Residential Free Patent Act as well as the decision not to construct
One-Stop-Shops for land administration services delivery in the Bohol and Bukidnon Provinces due to LRA’s
construction of new Registry of Deeds in these provinces. A co-financier, the Australian Agency for International
Development (AusAID), committed a technical assistance grant of US$19.31 million, which was disbursed at US$15.3
million.

Borrower Contribution : The Borrower's actual contribution of US$2 million was close to the estimated US$2.28 million
at appraisal. The voluntary contributions to titling activities from the Local Government Units amounted to an
additional US$2.3 million.

Dates: The project closing date was extended four times by a total of three years from the original closing date of
March 31, 2011 to March 31, 2014. The first extension in 2011 was for one year to March 31, 2012, and the second
extension in March 2012 was for 6 months to December 31, 2012, due to delays. The third extension in December
2012 for a further 9 months and the fourth extension in September 2013 for the additional 6 months were to enable
processing of the Additional Financing (AF) at the GoP’s request. Jointly with the DENR and the DOF, the Bank team
completed in April 2013 all preparation and clearance processes for an AF of US$61.47 million to be implemented
over three years. However, the finalization of the proposed AF did not materialize on time and GOP decided to finance
the planned activities through its own funds.

During the project restructuring in 2010, major modifications included the reduction of the original titling target due to a
delayed passage of the proposed amendment in the Free Patent legislation; land administration service delivery to be
undertaken only in provinces with systematic titling under the project; and transfer of valuation education from
Component 2 to Component 4 for better alignment with the responsible implementing agency (Restructuring Paper,
October 21, 2010).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High.
The Government of Philippines (GoP) established a Land Administration and Management (LAM) Task Force in 1999
to supervise the design and implementation of a long-term (15-20 year) program to guide the implementation of the
land administration and management reform in the Philippines. The Bank supported the GoP's reforms through the
first Land Administration and Management Project (LAMP I), which was approved in 2001 with co-financing from the
Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) . The project closed in 2004 with a satisfactory outcome
rating validated by the IEG. This project is a continuation of the support of the GoP's land administration and
management reforms. The project development objective was relevant to the GoP's national development priorities, in
particular the Medium-Term Philippine Development Plans (2001-2004, 2004-2010, 2011-2016). The project objective
was also relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy FY2015-2018 that specifically mentioned support to land
reforms, as well as to the Bank country strategies at appraisal and during implementation (FY2006-2008;
FY2010-2012), which aimed at enhancing regulatory policy frameworks and institutional capacity, and access to basic
services.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The project results framework indicated a clear causal chain between the activities financed by the project and the
outputs and outcomes that would attain the project's development objective. The objective of increasing land tenure
security and improving the efficiency of the land titling and administration system was to be achieved through
implementation of the institutional and legal land reforms, realization of an accelerated land titling program, and
establishment of a uniform property valuation system in the selected provinces.

In absence of the required nationwide institutional and legal framework, the systematic land titling program envisaged
under the project was to cover from 3 to 5 provinces, as opposed to coverage of the entire country. This was a
high-risk project, as significant improvement in the land administration system in the Philippines required the passage
of two important laws to establish one single land agency through a single law and to bring coherence to many laws
and regulations on land administration (PAD, p.23). To mitigate the risk, the project included a set of alternative
actions aimed at enhancing the efficiency and efficacy of land administration systems in the absence of new
legislation. Also, an alternative target for the number of land titles was identified at appraisal in case the related law
enactment is delayed.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To increase land tenure security and improve the efficiency of the land titling and administration system .

Substantial.

Outputs
  The Residential Free Patent Act was passed in March 2010, and the Real Estate Service Act was passed in June
    2009, which were supported under the project through technical assistance and social mobilization activities. The
    proposed Land Administration Authority (LAA) Bill and the proposed Valuation Reform Act (VRA) Bill remain to
    be enacted.
  The Strategic Framework Plan was prepared outlining long-term priorities for the Land Administration and
    Management Sector, which helped formulate the Land Sector Development Framework (LSDF) endorsed by the
    National Steering Committee (NSC) in 2010. The Framework was a key input in the preparation of the Philippine
    Development Pan 2010-2016.
  Land titling activities (also called systematic titling) were made systematic in the provinces of Leyte, Bohol and
    Bukidnon, including (a) land titling guidelines to facilitate the acceleration of issuing of land titles on demand; (b)
    development and implementation of a comprehensive community participation strategy; (c) development and
    implementation of a new records management strategy and supportive LAM system; and (d) improvement of
    service delivery by the establishment of an One-Stop-Shop (OSS) in Leyte and a virtual one-stop service point in
    Bohol and Bukidnon. Community participation in systematic titling was 71.96% in Leyte, 88.37% in Bohol, and
    81.34% in Bukidnon (target 80%).
  Modifications were introduced to land titling procedures to provide stronger partnerships with LGUs. The project
    worked in cooperation with 74 LGUs in the provinces of Leyte, Bohol and Bukidnon (including 11 under the
    LGU-assisted titling modality with LGUs having their own adjudication teams). A total of 101,793 new land titles
    were registered utilizing these streamlined procedures (target 102,000, revised from 264,000 due to delay in the
    passage of the Residential Free Patent Act). More than 180 LGUs have subsequently partnered with the project
    to play a more active role in LAM.
  The gender-responsive Land Administration and Management System (LAMS) to computerize the public land
    application and survey records were mainstreamed within the Department of Environment and Natural Resources
    (DENR) and to all its 16 regional offices.
  The Department of Finance (DOF) promulgated/issued the Philippine Valuation Standards (PVS), and the Mass
    Appraisal Guidebook (MAG), which provide detailed guidance on correct market valuation given existing market
    conditions affecting the property market.
  TA was provided to three cities to pilot the new procedures and methodologies prescribed for the reform
      valuation process. Naga, one of these cities, implemented and adopted a Schedule of Market Values (SMV)
      based on these procedures. A total of 30 additional provinces and 52 cities have updated their SMVs during the
      project’s lifetime. A roadmap for valuation reform is included under the LSDF with the full support of the DoF as
      part of its broader strategy geared toward real property tax reform.
     A comprehensive policy on foreshore administration and management (i.e., draft DAO on “Guidelines in the
      Development and Institutionalization of Foreshores Management and Disposition Maps”) was developed and
      presented to DNER’s Policy Technical Working Group (PTWG). Its approval was postponed to allow for another
      round of revisions to take into consideration the experience under typhoon Haiyan (known as Yolanda in the
      Philippines), which hit the Philippines in November 2013.
     Educational programs for land administration and valuation are underway at three universities, providing for the
      first time in the Philippine formal continuing education, diploma and masters programs in these areas.


Outcome
* No targets were set at appraisal. The baselines were determined during implementation, in particular in 2007 in Leyte, and in 2010
in Bohol and Bukidnon. The Development Impact Study (DIS) was carried out in 2013 covering 1,904 households in the three project
provinces, and a case study of Leyte’s land values in 2010. It is estimated that more than 40 % of the respondents in Leyte and
Bohol fall below the 2009 poverty threshold level while in Bukidnon, about 20 % are below the poverty line. In Bukidnon, it is
estimated that about 36 %of title recipients belonged to various indigenous peoples (IP) communities, which are considered among
the disadvantaged groups of society.

     According to the Development Impact Study, the perception of land tenure security strengthened, in particular
      from 77.2% to 81.3% in Bohol, from 65.9% to 96.3% in Bukidnon, and from 82.9% to 83.6% in Leyte. The
      satisfaction in land registration increased, in particular from 94% to 99.7% in Bukidnon and from 88.2% to
      91.2%, in Bohol. For Leyte, it is 93.1%, the baseline is not available.
     The incidence of conflicting claims in project sites reduced, in particular in Bohol from 74.2% to 40%, in Bukidnon
      from 57.1% to 26.4%. For Leyte, it is 25.6%, the baseline was not available.
     The investment in land property development is higher for project- supported respondents in Leyte ( 13% as
      compared to 5% for non-project) and in Bohol (13% as compared to 4%). In Bukidnon, only 6% invest in the
      development of their land as compared to 10% that may be explained by the predominance of indigenous
      population as well as ancestral domains and territories, which were protected under the project, according to the
      ICR (footnote 11).
     The actual titled land values are higher by 35% than untitled comparable land lots in the Leyte province,
      according to a case study in 2 municipalities in Leyte. Overall, evidence on the impact of land titling on
      investments and land prices is less conclusive, according to DIS, due to other factors that may affect land
      markets beyond land titling.
     The public access to land- related services was improved through the One-Stop-Shop, with increase in the
      registered subsequent transactions from 6,936 to 13,088 (e.g., subsequent sales, inheritance, liens, excluding
      registration of new titles).
     The titling performance more than doubled during the project period with an average issuance of 7,013 free
      patent titles per year, in comparison to 2,624 titles prior to project (the Registry of Deeds data).
     Processing time in land registration process decreased, in particular from 84 to 7.2 months in Leyte, from 24 to
      6.1 months in Bohol, and from 30 to 5.3 months in Bukidnon.
     Formal transaction costs decreased, in particular from PhP 6,380 to 1,744 in Leyte, from PhP 3,112 to 1,809 in
      Bohol, and from 14,396 to 894 in Bukidnon. Data on informal transaction costs is not available.
     Real Property Tax (RPT) collections increased as a result of titling activities from 113% to 114% in Leyte, from
      122% to 129% in Bohol, and from 112% to 136% in Bukidnon.
     In Naga City, RPT collections increased by 27%, while the capital gains tax and documentary stamp tax collected
      by the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR) District Office grew by 68% and 63%, respectively, as a result of using
      market-based property values.


5. Efficiency:

Economic Analysis.
An ex-ante economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 36% at appraisal, with the Net Present Value of US$45.7
million (PAD, p.16). In 2010, the ERR was revised as a result of a 2-year delay in passage of the requisite legislation
(the Free Patent Amendment Law), which affected the project expected outputs in the number of titles issued, and
therefore related benefits from titling in the form of increased land values (reflecting increases in the profitability in
land use). The ERR of the restructured project in 2010 was re-estimated at about 15%, with NPV of US$7.1 million.
The ex-post cost-benefit analysis at project closure followed the same methodology, also accounting for the value of
time saved by beneficiaries of the titling program (95,356 landowners) in the project provinces. The results from a
sensitivity analysis indicated the ERRs ranging from 22% for a 5% increase in land values as perceived in Bukidnon,
to 93% for a 35% increase, as determined by a case study in Leyte that examined differences in market prices
between titled and untitled agricultural land. The project team subsequently pointed out that the ex-post ERR would be
38% as a lower-bound estimate for the overall project, which results from assuming a 10% increase in land prices.

Financial Analysis. The Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) was estimated at 16% at appraisal, with the financial
NPV of US$8.66 million (PAD, p.16). During the 2010 restructuring, the FIRR was re-estimated at 3.1%, with NPV of
US$0.05 million. At project closure, the FIRR was not estimated; instead, the financial analysis was carried out to
determine the project's impact on the increase in fiscal revenues at both the local and national level as a result of: (a)
titling activities; and (b) the adoption of a market-based SMV in the pilot city of Naga. The project municipalities
showed stronger increases in real property taxes between 2009 and 2012 than their peers, in particular 5.5% in Bohol,
21.1% in Bukidnon, and 1.4% in Leyte. With the adoption of the new SMV in Naga City, total real property tax
collectibles increased by 7% in 2009, 16% in 2010, and 23% in 2011 in the city.

Cost effectiveness. A unit cost comparative analysis of the costs of producing and obtaining a title in Bohol (i.e., the
costs incurred by public agencies in producing a title and the costs incurred by applicants to obtain a title) showed that
the unit cost of a project- supported title was about 22% of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources'
title.

While the activities were substantially completed by 2011 (92% of loan proceeds were disbursed by February 2011,
and 99.5% by January 2012), the project closing date was extended by three years as a result of the internal
government approval processes to allow for the AF preparation, which did not take place.

Efficiency is assessed as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         Yes                                      36%                                     53%

    ICR estimate                      Yes                                      38%                                     69%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Relevance of Objectives is high, and that of Design is substantial. The project substantially helped increase land
tenure security and improved the efficiency of the land titling and administration system. Efficiency is assessed as
modest.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The commitment of the Government to reforms is deemed to be strong. The activities at the National Capital Region
(Metro Manila) started in 2014 to serve as pilot for the LAMS roll-out nationwide. DENR has already allocated more
than PhP100 million and has requested PhP1.2 billion in funding under the 2015 Government's Appropriations Act to
complete the roll-out in all its field offices within the next three years. Improvements in public land records
management and land valuation and Real Property Tax (RPT) collection by local governments are also ready for
mainstreaming. The local government- led land titling is proceeding on a national basis under the government's own
resources.

The main risks to development outcome are (i) the Land Administration Authority bill and Valuation Reform Act are not
enacted yet; (ii) weak local technical and institutional capacity to scale up titling and valuation activities; (iii) lack of
information and understanding about registration procedures, along with increased transactions costs; and (iv) weak
flow of LAM information across LGUs, DENR offices, and the RoD to ensure that the LAM systems continue being
developed. As for the Leyte's OSS supported under the project, it was severely damaged by Typhoon Haiyan in
November 2013, and is not operational.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The project was built on the experience and lessons learned under LAMP I, which was the key input in the design
of the reform strategy, particularly the use of free patent titling, and identification of priority areas for intervention.
The lessons from similar land management operations in the region were adapted to the Philippines context. For
example, while the issuing of land titles was included under the project to ensure political support at the
sub-national level, the number was significantly more modest compared to other countries such as Cambodia and
Indonesia.

The project was identified as high risk at appraisal, and most risks were correctly identified and mitigated. These
included adoption of a phased reform strategy to address uncertainty about the passage of legislation, and
inclusion of an alternative target for the number of land titles issued in case of delays in the passage of enabling
legislation on free patent. The planned institutional and legal reforms, however, proved to be more challenging,
including ensuring political will for legislative reforms, and the complexity of implementing arrangements.

There were weaknesses in the M&E design, mainly its over-dependence on the impact evaluation to measure the
project’s outcomes (see section 10a). Also, as the ICR (2.1b) notes, the project had too many loan covenants
(over 20 legal covenants in the LA), which required a large percentage of supervision resources without a
corresponding pay-off, as many of them were secondary aspects of implementation that could have been included
in the Operations Manual.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The project team provided close and regular supervision, maintaining strong collaboration with AusAID and the
implementing agencies. 18 supervision missions were carried out and these were well documented through Aide
Memoires and Implementation Status Reports (ISRs). Having a co-Team Task Leader (TTL) based in the country
and the continuity of the TTL from the time of appraisal to the ICR helped with fluid and consistent
communications between the Bank and the implementing agencies. Project supervision also benefited from the
strong support of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), which provided the same technical expert from
preparation through project closing. The team also provided intensive procurement support including assistance in
strengthening the DENR’s Procurement Unit and large-scale procurement training ultimately improving overall
implementation.

A mid-term review (MTR) in April 2008 was critical in reorienting the project due to its slow pace of
implementation. The formal restructuring took place in 2010 due to a lengthy Government approval process,
however, as according to the ICR, the work to turn the project around started immediately following the MTR.
Recurrent delays in the processing of the AF by the Government led to extensions of the project closing date by
several years after the activities had been substantially completed, and as the ICR (5.1b) notes, the Bank should
have closed the project earlier.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The GoP was largely committed to the reforms supported by the project. Although with delays, the Residential
Free Patent Act was eventually approved as well as the Real Estate Service Act (RESA). The Land Administration
Authority (LAA) bill, however, was met with strong opposition from the Land Registration Authority (LRA) and was
not passed despite a strong support of legislators and civil society at large. According to the ICR (2.1(c), the Bill
was to be re-filed in the current Congress.
The ICR (5.2a), however, notes the uneven availability of counterpart funds and substantial delays in processing
the request for restructuring after the MTR (the official request was only submitted after two years). In 2010, the
Government expressed interest in Additional Financing (AF) to scale up key reforms on land administration. The
AF process was, however, protracted; it necessitated processing of two project closing date extensions, and
eventually was dropped.

   Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The performance of the Department of Finance (through Bureau of Local Government Finance, and National Tax
Research Center) is assessed as satisfactory, and the performance the Department of Environment and Natural
Resources (DENR) is assessed as moderately satisfactory. Both implementing agencies demonstrated
cooperation and coordination of efforts among themselves, while maintaining a close working relationship with the
Bank and AusAID. In addition, these two agencies were effective in coordinating efforts with administrative units at
the regional, provincial and city levels. While the project enjoyed the strong support of BLGF, NTRC and DoF
leadership throughout the project’s lifetime, the frequent rotation of managers at both the project level
and at DENR in general affected the pace of project implementation. Also, there were some shortcomings in the
fiduciary management at DENR (see section 11b below).

The ICR commends the Bohol Provincial Project Implementation Office (PPIP) and the Systematic Adjudication
Field Offices (SAFOs) for successful implementation of systematic titling activities under Component 3. The Bohol
PPIO led a strong campaign on the benefits of cadastral maps and land survey and titling to local governments.
Due to their proactivity and dedication, counterpart funds were secured from nine municipalities within a year,
totaling more than PhP20 million. The Leyte and Bukidnon PPIOs also acted proactively when subsequently
replicating the Bohol approach under local conditions.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The Results and Monitoring Framework relied on the impact evaluation to measure the project’s outcomes. The
choice of the PDO indicators tended to reflect hypothetical impacts of land titling on a wide array of variables. The
indicators were overall adequate, though some were not fully attributable to the project. For example, an increase in
the diversification of income for those that received a title would depend on various factors. The PDO indicators did
not have quantified baselines, which were to be established during the first years into project implementation (PAD, p.
26). The absence of targets, as described by the ICR (2.3), made expected results to be more ambiguous. The ICR
also finds that the definition of Intermediate Indicators was overly detailed, with an excessive emphasis on dates,
which required them to be changed during the mid-term review.

b. M&E Implementation:

Monitoring of progress and performance assessments were done regularly. For the impact evaluation,
Socio-Economic Baseline Studies (SEBS) were conducted in 2007 in Leyte and in 2010 in Bohol and Bukidnon. Due
to this delay, some of the impacts, such as pre-project satisfaction, were not fully captured. There were also changes
in the composition of the control and experimental groups, as some municipalities initially classified as “control areas”
during SEBS were eventually covered by LAMP II and vice versa. To compensate for these shortcomings, the final
survey, which was conducted in 2013, studied the initial impacts of titling and land registration using both “before and
after” and “with and without” project comparisons, the latter ones being less rigorous in terms of comparability. A large
number of studies were co- financed by AusAID to test critical hypothesis about the impact of land titling on various
variables such as land value, land investments (ICR, 2.3a).

c. M&E Utilization:
  During implementation, studies conducted under AusAID TA served to evaluate the impact of the project and its
cost-effectiveness (e.g., impact of titling on land prices, investments, cost comparisons between various titling
modalities). The final Development Impact Study (DIS) utilized a rigorous methodology to measure the project’s
impact in the three participating provinces.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was a Category “B” project that triggered three safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and OP4.10 Indigenous Peoples.

Environmental Assessment : The direct impacts on the environment were identified as minor and attributable to civil
works. As the construction of the OSSs in Bohol and Bukidnon was cancelled, no other civil works were undertaken
(ICR, 2.4 b).

Involuntary Resettlement : The dropping of civil works (OSSs) resulted in cancellation of any potential triggers on
involuntary resettlement policy.

Indigenous Peoples: Lands covered by applications for and fully- fledged Certificates of Ancestral Domain Titles
(CADTs) as certified by the National Commission on Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) were excluded from the project
(titling operations for ancestral domains are the responsibility of the NCIP). The ICR (2.4) adds that Indigenous
Peoples (IP) living in alienable and disposable lands outside ancestral domains in the lowlands of Bukidnon Province
received effective support for project participation through the integration of the IP Coordinators within the Provincial
Project Implementation Office (PPIO).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Procurement: The ICR (2.4 d) reports that the project procurement was in compliance and accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement and completed satisfactorily. There were delays in procurement at an early stage of
implementation, mainly due to procurement capacity issues and frequent changes in the composition of the DENR
Central Bids and Awards Committee. The DENR Procurement Improvement Program was implemented by DENR in
2009 and helped strengthen the procurement capacity of the Central Office and the Regional Offices. The project
Cadastral Survey procurement customized and used for Bohol Province was adapted by the DENR for the
Bank-financed contracts for the Political Boundary Survey contracts under the National Program Support for
Environment and Natural Resources Management Project. This resulted in increased participation of bidders and
lowering of prices (around 10 %), which allowed DENR to cover additional cadastral survey in more areas.

Financial management. For the component implemented by DOF, through BLGF and NTRC, the annual
audited project financial statements were generally received on time except for four instances where the audit reports
were received from 7 days to one month after the due date. All the audit reports submitted contained an unqualified
audit opinion from the Commission on Audit (COA). For the components implemented by DENR, the annual audited
project financial statements were received with 3 to 4 months delays from CY2007 to CY2010. The delays in
submission were reduced to few days during the last two years of submission (CY2012 to CY2013). In the eight audit
reports submitted, six had qualified audit opinions and two had unqualified audit opinions. The ICR (2.4 c) reports that
the audit findings and the reasons for qualifications raised by COA did not result in ineligible expenditures, and were
subsequently addressed by DENR.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


 d. Other:
 The Land Sector Development Framework (LSDF) prepared under the project and its coverage of the land- based
sectors was acknowledged by the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) as being international best practice
and a key contributor to the shaping and formulation of the FAO's Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible
Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries, and Forests in the Context of National Food Security (2012).
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons are selected from a longer list of lessons identified by the ICR, with some adaptation of the
language

    There is more than one path toward reform , and partnerships are essential for success . Policy, administrative,
     technical, and training interventions could help move forward the reform agenda. The reform initiatives
     achieved under the project have largely come about through partnerships between change agents from the
     private sector, advocacy groups and academic circles, as well as partnerships between national land
     administration agencies and LGUs at the sub-national level.

    Experience has shown that greater efficiency is achieved in municipalities where LGUs are actively involved
     in titling. In planning for the roll-out, the LGU’s commitment to titling is essential.

    A solid M&E framework with quantifiable baselines , annual targets to measure progress , and clear
     end-of-project expectations is a critical component of project design. Impact assessment studies enhance the
     project results framework, however they should not constitute the sole basis for assessing the project’s efficacy
     to avoid the risk if the impact evaluation is not done.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is clear and outcome oriented. The quality of evidence is adequate. The ICR provides insightful explanations
for important elements of the implementation experience. The ICR's Annexes are substantive and useful, in particular
Annex 2- Outputs, and Annex 7- Borrower's Comments. Lessons are evidence- based. A few minor editorial aspects:
the ICR's data sheet should have included AusAid as a co-financier in table A, p.i., and added page numbering to the
report for better reference.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
