Document of                   FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3068-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             - Tunisian Dinar (D)
Tunisian milliames 1,000 - D 1.000
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating.
The rate used in the President's and Staff Appraisal
Reports, which approximates the current rate, is:
US$ 1.00    - D 0.400
D 1.000     = US$ 2.50
D 1 million = US$ 2.5 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Metric Ton        - 1,000 Kilograms = 2,2C4.6 Pounds
1 Meter (m)         = 1.0936 Yards = 39.37 Inches
1 Square Meter (m2) = 1.2 Square Yards = 10.76 Square Feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BDET                - Economic Development Bank of
Tunisia
EOE                 - Export Oriented Enterprise
MFA                  - Multi-Fiber Agreement
SITER               - United Textile Industries Inc.
(Societe Des Industries Textiles
Rgunies)
SITEX               - Textile Industry Inc. (Societe
Industrielle Des Textiles)
SOGEX               = Accounting, Management and Auditing
Inc. (Societe  Fiduciaire d'Expertise
Comptable, d'Organisation Generale
et d'Audit).
SOGITEX                General Textile Industries Inc.
(Socigte Generale Des Industries
Textiles)
SOMOTEX             - Textiles of Monastir Inc. (Socigte
Monastirienne Des Textiles)
SSI                    Small Scale Industry
TISSMOK             = Societe de Tissage de Moknine
toe                 - tons oil equivalent



_              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;           Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:      SOGITEX Holding and its four main production
subsidiaries--SITEX, SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK.
Amount:             US$18.6 million equivalent
Terms:              15 years including a grace period of three and one half
years at an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:   The proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to SITEX
(US$14.4 million equivalent) and to SOGITEX Holding,
SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK (US$4.2 million equivalent),
for 15 years including a grace period of three and one
half years at an interest rate of 10.6 percent per
annum. The beneficiaries would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The proposed project will assist the Government in
implementing the first phase of the rehabilitation and
modernization requirements of the SOGITEX Group. The
objectives of the project are to expand and improve
SITEX's production so as to enhance the competitiveness
of the company in export markets and prepare the ground
for the rehabilitation of SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK.
The proposed project comprises the following components:
(i)  expansion and improvement of SITEX's production by
reconditioning spinning and winding equipment and
upgrading service facilities at Sousse, by expand-
ing and upgrading the existing weaving and finish-
ing facilities at Ksar Hellal, and by providing
essential incremental working capital;
(ii)  balancing of the existing production facilities as
well as overhauling of selected equipment and
provision of essential spare parts and accessories
to SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK; and
(iii)  technical assistance to help SITEX prepare and
implement its rehabilitation and expansion program,
to upgrade the management and accounting systems of
SITEX, SITER, SOMOTEX, TISSMOK and the holding
company, and to strengthen marketing capabilities
and prepare future investment plans for SITER,
SOMOTEX and TISSMOK.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Benefits
and Risks:          Upon project completion in 1983, SITEX's annual yarn and
finished denim production would reach 13,250 tons and 26
million square meters respectively, a 65 percent
increase over 1980 levels. This, together with the
improved quality of production, would increase substan-
tially SITEX's revenue earning potential. The main
risks are those normally associated with textile proj-
ects in general (low profit margin) and export projects
in particular. However, SITEX's output mix is flexible
and the company is competitive in the EEC market due to
its relatively low labor and freight costs and high
quality of production. The investments proposed for
SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK, together with technical
assistance, would improve equipment and operations in
these three companies while preparing for a full
rehabilitation to be implemented in a second stage.
Estimated Costs:                                    Local      Foreign      Total
-------US$ million---------
SITEX
Equipment and spares                               0.9          9.3        10.2
Installation and start-up                         0.1           0.4         0.5
Engineering, Consulting Services, and
Training                                         0.2           0.4         0.6
Base Cost                                      1.2          10.1        11.3
Physical Contingencies                             0.1          1.0         1.1
Price Contingencies                                0.1          1.1         1.2
Subtotal                                       1.4          12.2        13.6
Incremental Working Capital                        3.7          7.2        10.9
Interest during Construction                      0.2           2.6         2.8
Total SITEX                                    5.3          22.0        27.3
SOCITEX Holding, SITER, SOMOTEX, TISSMOK
Equipment and spares                               0.2          2.6         2.8
Consulting Services                                0.1          0.8         0.9
Base Cost                                      0.3           3.4         3.7
Physical and Price Contingencies                   0.1          0.8         0.9
Subtotal                                       0.4           4.2         4.6
Interest during Construction                      0.1           0.9         1.0
Total SOGITEX Holding, SITER,
SOMOTEX, TISSMOK                             0.5          5.1          5.6
Grand Total                                    5.8 /1       27.1        32.9
/1 Includes US$0.3 million of local taxes.



- iii. -
Financing Plan:                               Local      Foreign      Total
-      US$ (million)-------
Government Equity                               5.8         4.0         9.8
Swiss Credits                                   -           4.5         4.5
IBRD                                            -          18.6        18.6
Total                                      5.8         27.1        32.9
Estimated Disbursements:       Bank FY:        1982        1983        1984
-------US$ (million)------
Annual                                    10.7          7.4         0.5
Cumulative                                10.7         18.1        18.6
Rate of Return:    about 30 percent
Appraisal Report:  3369-TUN dated May 7, 1981
Map: IBRD 15613






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$l8.6 million to the Republic of Tunisia, to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of a Textile Rehabilitation Project. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 and one half years of grace,
with an interest rate of 9.6 percent per annum. US$14.4 million equivalent
would be relent to Societe Industrielle des Textiles (SITEX) and US$4.2
million equivalent to Societe Generale des Industries Textiles (SOGITEX),
Societe des Industries Textiles Reunies (SITER), Societe Monastirienne des
Textiles (SOMOTEX) and Societe de Tissage de Moknine (TISSMOK) for 15 years
including 3 and one half years of grace with interest at 10.6 percent per
annum.  The beneficiaries would bear the foreign exchange risk.  The financing
plan for the project includes US$4.5 million equivalent from the Swiss Govern-
ment (US$l.5 million equivalent, interest free, for 15 years including 10
years' grace) and Swiss commercial banks (US$3 million equivalent at an
interest rate of 6.7 percent per annum, for 10 years including 3 years of
grace).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of
Tunisia" (No. 2201-TUN) was issued on November 16, 1978. An economic mission
visited Tunisia in June 1980 and this part reflects its findings. Country
Data sheets are attached in Annex I; present economic projections are provi-
sional and strongly depend on the outcome of an ongoing study on the future of
domestic oil production and energy demand and on the economic policies that
will be adopted for the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
3.       Tunisia is rather poorly endowed with natural resources.  Much of it
is arid or semi-arid. The limited areas where dry-land agriculture is
possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuations in rainfall. The
adverse effects of climatic fluctuations are alleviated by expanding irriga-
tion. Tunisia's most important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum, and
natural gas; however, the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are small,
and phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality. There is considerable
tourism potential, and efforts have been made to develop it rapidly over the
last decade.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to educa-
tion and training as basic prerequisites for modernization. As a result,
the adult literacy rate has increased from under 15 percent at the time of
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from that in President's Report No.
P-3063-TUN for a Health Project distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 8, 1981.



- 2 -
independence to 55 percent by 1980; the health and nutrition status of the
population improved, average calorie supply per capita increased from about
80 to 112 percent of requirements, and life expectancy at birth increased
from about 48 years in 1960 to 57 years in 1978.
5.       Tunisia's economy depends on rural activities to provide employ-
ment, but on petroleum and phosphate exports to provide foreign exchange
earnings. Manufacturing is rapidly becoming important in both respects.
The relative sectoral composition of GDP shows a diversified economic
structure. From the employment point of view (the country's most pressing
social problem), Tunisia remains an agricultural economy, with the rural
sector providing work for about one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. The direct employment effects of petroleum extraction, phos-
phate mining and tourism are small, although these sectors make a vital
contribution to GDP, public revenues, savings and exports. From the export
point of view, Tunisia is largely a petroleum and mining economy with those
two activities providing 37 percent of the country's foreign exchange earn-
ings; all manufacturing activities and tourism together provide another 43
percent.
The Main Economic Sectors in 1979
(in percent)
GDP /1    Employment   Exports /2
Agriculture                                   16.2           35.0          6.8
Energy/Mining                                 12.1            1.8         37.1
Manufacturing                                 12.1           21.8         22.5
Tourism                                        4.8            1.5         20.2
Construction and Services                     41.2           25.4         13.4
Government Administration                     13.6           14.5           -
100.0          100.0        100.0
/1 At factor cost.
/2 Goods and non-factor services.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Tunisia's economy has grown relatively fast in recent years.  GDP,
in constant prices, increased at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent from
1976 to 1979. Although this is somewhat less than the 8.6 percent growth
rate for the 1969-76 period, Tunisia's GDP growth of 8.0 percent for the
entire decade 1969-79 places it among the top 10 middle-income countries;
it also marks a substantial improvement over the relatively low growth
(4 percent per annum) experienced during the 1960s. GNP per capita reached
$1,120 in 1979, which, in constant prices, is about 73 percent above the
1969 level.



7.       The impressive growth achieved from 1969 to 1976 was largely
attributable to changes in economic management introduced at the beginning
of this period. In agriculture, stronger Government efforts to stimulate
production, reoriented towards promotion of individual farming, together
with favorable weather conditions, resulted in a near doubling of produc-
tion, a remarkable turn-around from the slow, but continuous, decline in
agricultural production during most of the 1960s. In manufacturing, the
degree of Government control declined, and more incentives were given to
private initiative. An increasingly export-oriented investment strategy,
coupled with a dynamic marketing effort, led to a rapid growth of produc-
tion, particularly in textiles, while tourism was promoted with marked
success.
8.       During the second half of the 1970s, the situation was quite
different, not so much in terms of overall growth (which slowed down
slightly), as in terms of the underlying growth factors; output in agri-
culture has virtually stagnated since 1976, partially as a result of bad
weather conditions; textile production declined in 1978, and tourism
development slowed down because of the 1977 slump in the European tourist
market. By contrast, petroleum production and, to a lesser extent, phos-
phate processing expanded making these two sectors the main engine of
economic growth over the 1976-79 period. After an exceptional low level in
1976, oil production increased by over 12 percent per annum up to 1979;
more important, however, were the large profits reaped by Tunisia from the
successive increases in crude oil prices, starting in 1974. These large
additional foreign exchange earnings enabled the country to increase its
investments, from an average of slightly over 20 percent of GDP before
1975, to nearly 29 percent thereafter, and expand its public services at a
rapid rate. These two factors, in turn, triggered a rapid growth in the
construction industry and in local manufacturing of construction materials.
9.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particu-
larly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favor-
able. Even in constant prices, exports grew marginally faster than
imports. In addition, the terms of trade improved significantly, due to
higher export prices for oil and low import prices for grain. As a result,
the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic savings financed
on average over 72 percent of the greatly increased investment effort.
The current account deficit of $500-600 million (1978/1979) was easily
financed; grant aid and private investments accounted for about 30 per-
cent, while the remainder was covered by long-term foreign borrowing. The
increase in lending to Tunisia from public sources allowed it to reduce
borrowing from financial markets and suppliers' credits. During the 1970s,
therefore, total foreign debt disbursed increased little relative to GDP
and the debt service ratio improved (para. 18). Net foreign exchange
reserves increased in seven out of the last ten years, but still repre-
sented only 1.5 months of imports at the end of 1979.
10.      Since independence, the public sector has played a major role in
mobilizing and redistributing domestic resources. General budgetary



- 4 -
revenues were equivalent to one-third of GDP in 1978 and 1979, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over one-fourth of these
revenues were saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of
total government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance
situation has led to a fast increase in subsidy payments to private con-
sumers and public enterprises. Such transfers have nearly doubled over the
last four years, accounting for 16 percent of total current budget outlays,
or 4 percent of GDP. This level of subsidies, to cover the increasing
operational deficits of public enterprises may not be sustainable in the
long term; similarly, consumer subsidies for basic necessities will have to
concentrate more systematically on the needy.
Medium-term Prospects
11.      The objectives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) have a good
chance of being achieved, except for the employment creation targets. The
actual GDP growth will be just short of the planned rate of 7.3 percent per
annum, while the investment objective of $9.8 billion in current prices, or
30 percent of GDP, will be fully met. Completion of some large projects in
the public sector (steel, cement, expansion of the oil refinery) will, how-
ever, be delayed. Private sector investments, both foreign and national,
are likely to exceed Plan targets. The Government welcomes this shift from
large capital-intensive projects in the public sector to medium-scale
industries as a means to speed up employment creation. Open and hidden
unemployment is currently considered the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy. During 1977-79, the domestic non-agricultural economy
could only absorb three-fourths of new job seekers. In view of this, and
of the fact that migration to Libya and Europe is decreasing rapidly, the
overall unemployment and underemployment rate, estimated at between 20 and
25 percent, has not declined markedly.
12.      The Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) is presently in preparation.
Employment generation, food self-sufficiency, and more rapid growth in the
three most backward regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and
South) are likely to be among its major objectives. The outlook for over-
all economic growth during this period and beyond, will depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Based on known reserves,
it is generally expected that oil production will decline after 1981 from
its present level of 5-6 million tons per annum and will come to an end
during the late 1990s. The possible exploitation of some of the smaller
fields that may soon become profitable will not delay the declining produc-
tion trend by more than a few years. Some off-shore fields cannot be
exploited for the time being, because they are located in areas disputed by
Libya. Gas production in presently exploited fields (385,000 tons of oil
equivalent--toe--in 1979) is expected to cease around 1990. Royalties from
the Algerian/Italian pipeline will provide an additional supply of natural
gas, rising from 200,000 toe in 1982 to 800,000 toe in 1986 and there-
after. Negotiations with Algeria on the purchase of additional quantities
of natural gas are proceeding, but have so far been inconclusive. The
Government is therefore considering the exploitation of the off-shore gas



field of Miskar, despite its high production cost. The optimal use of all
these resources is being studied with foreign assistance, within a compre-
hensive long-term policy framework.
13.      While detailed macroeconomic growth projections beyond the mid-
1980s will have to wait for the outcome of these studies, there can
be little doubt that--except in the unlikely case of large new oil
discoveries--Tunisia will face the consequences of a decline in oil and gas
production over the next 10-15 years, and become a net importer of hydro-
carbons, perhaps as early as 1987-88. The Government is fully aware of
these developments. It agrees that the situation will require significant
policy changes in the near future and is analyzing the areas where these
changes will have to take place in the context of the preparation of the
Sixth Plan. Unlike many other developing countries, however, Tunisia has
enough lead time to introduce these changes gradually until the mid-1980s.
This will reduce the associated economic and social strains, and should
avoid major balance-of-payments problems. Assuming that the necessary
measures will be implemented, it is reasonable to expect an overall GDP
growth of about 7 percent in constant prices, until at least 1985.
14.      The expected decline in oil production and exports is likely to
have an impact on external debt and domestic savings, particularly public
savings. Changes in demand management will thus be required to avoid
balance-of-payments difficulties and maintain satisfactory economic
growth. In the public sector, the necessary restraint in current budget
expenditures will require a reassessment of present price and subsidy
policies, in particular for energy, basic foodstuffs, and transportation.
Considering the complexity and the pervasiveness of the present subsidy
system, and the impact its dismantling will have on domestic inflation and
on the standard of living (particularly on the 17 percent of the population
still living in absolute poverty), the introduction of changes into the
system will be a difficult endeavor, but ought to be initiated without
delay. As part of this effort, the subsidies to public enterprises, to a
large extent stemming from managerial inefficiencies, ought to be phased
out. In addition, interest rate and fiscal policies will have to be used
more effectively to restrain final consumption, particularly of imports,
and to stimulate savings. Finally, wage and salary policies will have to
keep labor cost increases in line with productivity increases, particularly
since Tunisia will have to stimulate tourism and make a greater effort to
improve its competitiveness in international markets by promoting exports
of manufactured goods other than textiles.
15.      A successful and timely implementation of these policy changes,
however, cannot prevent a decline in the domestic savings rate. This, in
turn, will require a corresponding adjustment in the investment rate below
the present average of 29 percent of GDP, so as to maintain a manageable
spread between domestic savings and investments. More resources will have
to be allocated to labor-intensive projects, particularly to small and
medium manufacturing enterprises, in order to ease the unemployment problem
and reduce income disparities, between rural and urban areas as well as



within each of these areas. While investments in education, health, hous-
ing and water supply will have to continue, they should be focussed more on
the most needy income groups, provided at lower costs (health, shelter),
and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (education, training).
Social Issues
16.      In general, Tunisia's social performance has been impressive.
Since independence, the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 per-
cent of GDP is now devoted to social programs, although too many of the
benefits still accrue to the upper income groups. Education expenditures
rank first among budgetary outlays. The comprehensive education system
provides free access for all students, and the gross enrollment rate has
reached 100 percent for primary education and 22 percent for secondary
education. The performance of the system, however, could be improved by:
(a) expanding vocational training programs and improving their relevance
and coordination with labor demand; and (b) catering more to poorer and
rural groups. Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors, and nursing personnel and the
medical referal system is not properly functioning. As a result, the rural
poor are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies,
infant mortality is still high. So far health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine. To achieve better and faster results, the
Government is planning to allocate more resources to preventive medicine
and nutrition education. Finally, Tunisia faces a difficult housing
situation. Subsidized housing, the cornerstone of public intervention, has
not reached the most needy groups. The housing demand from households
above the poverty limit should be satisfied by the private sector; to this
end, adequate incentives need to be provided.
17.      Absolute poverty still affects one out of every six people in
Tunisia. Over the last fifteen years, the overall number of absolute poor
remained stable but declined in rural areas as a result of internal and
external migration. Most of the poor are unskilled seasonal workers in
agriculture and industry, small farmers, and artisans. Income differen-
tials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies, as well as the tax
system and budgetary expenditures, had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the preparation of the forthcoming Plan as an occasion
to focus on basic needs and poverty alleviation, with a view of abolishing
absolute poverty before the end of this century. Maintaining a low popula-
tion growth rate will be an important factor for a significant alleviation
of poverty.
External Assistance and Foreign Debt
18.      As mentioned above (para. 9), foreign borrowing remained limited
during the second half of the 1970s, and a growing share of foreign funds



was provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. During the
1976-79 period, foreign loan commitments averaged about $670 million per
annum, two-thirds of which in the form of Official Development Assistance
(ODA--$450 million or some $75 per capita). About 70 percent of ODA com-
mitments came from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canada, but also some oil-surplus countries, whose contribu-
tions averaged about one-fourth of total bilateral ODA. About 17 percent
of total ODA was committed by the Bank Group, and some 13 percent by other
multilateral sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 6.1
percent interest and 18 years maturity, including a grace period of 4.8
years. At the end of 1979, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated
at about $2.9 billion, or one-third of GDP; debt service was 10.7 percent
of exports of goods and services, as compared with 17.8 percent in 1970.
Direct foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s, but have
gained momentum during the last five years in line with increased activi-
ties in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign in-
vestors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from less than
$20 million in 1969 to more than $100 million in 1976 and $165 million in
1979.
19.      The balance-of-payments outlook remains favorable, at least up to
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, much will depend on the policy measures
initiated during the next few years (para. 14). The main risk would be for
Tunisia to attempt to continue its policy of high investments and high
current social outlays in spite of the expected decline in foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings. Pressures to that effect will certainly
exist. The new Government formed in the spring of 1980, however, is aware
of this danger and recognizes the need for change. Considering its long
record of prudent and skillful balance-of-payments and external debt
management, there is every reason to assume that Tunisia will formulate and
implement the necessary reforms and, thus, will continue to remain credit-
worthy for future Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
20.      Between 1962 and March 31, 1981 Tunisia has received forty-one
Bank loans and eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $765.6 million
and $70.1 million (net of cancellations) of which fifteen loans and nine
credits have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1981, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is
generally satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have been created
or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related sectors
or subsectors.
21.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Govern-
ment efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced



growth and distribution of income among regions and income groups with
particular emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies
and investments; and (d) provide selective support for the development of
basic infrastructure and for institution building in key public services.
An important feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authori-
ties in the timely and well-coordinated preparation of projects through
missions and advice by Bank staff, the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Coopera-
tive Program and the use of the Bank's Project Preparation Facility. The
Bank is also supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the
mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure cofinancing for the
projects it assists. The latter is particularly important in view of the
extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
22.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, educa-
tion, family planning, urban low-cost housing, and the Tunis planning and
public transport project has accounted for 28 percent of Bank/IDA commit-
ments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and tourism
infrastructure has accounted for 36 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly
through the Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), 14 per-
cent of total commitments.
23.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its
efforts in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and
social development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional
integration and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between
urban and rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment
creation and institution building. In addition to the proposed textile
rehabilitation project, the lending program includes projects in various
stages of processing in the agricultural sector, in industry, highways,
urban development, and education.
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macro-economic and sector base for our lending program;
it will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues
and policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country including appropriate interest
rate policies (paras. 12-14). Two major reports in 1980 on the mechanical
and electrical industries and on the social aspects of development provided
a better knowledge of the country's industrial development base and pros-
pects in these sub-sectors, and a better understanding of income dispari-
ties by evaluating the Government's social policies aimed at poverty
alleviation. Future reports will include a review of pricing and subsidy
policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth Plan (1982-1986), and of the
agricultural, education and training, urban and energy sectors.
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt out-
standing and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private



sources) was 10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was
11 percent. The Bank's and IDA's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt by 1986 is expected to decrease to about 7 percent, and their share in
the debt service would increase to about 16 percent.
26.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), BDET (a
Tunisian development finance company), in Compagnie Financiere et
Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in tourism projects),
in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel development), in
Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium fluoride from
local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism
development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12.8 million,
as of March 31, 1980.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Background
27.      Manufacturing is a leading sector in the Tunisian economy in view
of its ability to generate employment (74,000 new jobs in 1977-80), to
export tD 370 million, or 40 percent of commodity exports in 1980), and to
attract foreign investment (D 50 million during 1972-78, or 18 percent of
total investment in manufacturing). The Government has played an important
role in promoting the industrial development of the country. In the 1960s
it invested heavily in capital intensive activities such as construction
materials, chemicals and steel, to promote import substitution, while in
the 1970s it oriented its investments more towards labor-intensive activi-
ties. During the last decade, industrial development objectives also
shifted to focus more on private investment and exports. As a result of
strong Government incentives, supplemented by protection against competi-
tion from imports, manufacturing growth accelerated from 6.4 percent per
annum in real terms during the 1960s to close to 10 percent during the
1970s, and its share of GDP increased from about 10 percent in the 1960s to
about 12 percent in the 1970s. Private investment, encouraged by Govern-
ment incentives increased from D 25.8 million during 1969-72, to D 151.6
million during 1973-1976 and D 235 million during 1977-80.
28.      Despite these achievements, the sector suffered from a number of
weaknesses. First, weak management capability and employment creation
beyond efficiency levels resulted, after 1972, in deteriorating produc-
tivity in public sector companies in the construction materials, food, and
chemical industries. Productivity was, however, maintained in electro-
mechanical industries, and it increased in private Tunisian textile
enterprises, especially in those with foreign participation (para. 29).
Second, although exports increased on the average by over 20 percent per
year during the 1970s, export diversification was constrained by the
Government's pricing and protection policies.



- 10 -
The Textile Industry Subsector
29.      The textile industry has played an important role in the real-
ization of Tunisian development objectives because of its low capital
intensity, and good export potential. In the 1970s, textiles were the
second largest contributors to value added in manufacturing (after food
processing) and led the manufacturing sector in exports and job creation.
During 1973-78, textiles generated about 40 percent of all new jobs in
manufacturing and accounted for about 30 percent of industrial exports,
while absorbing only about 10 percent of industrial investment. By 1979,
the country was producing about 52 percent of its yarn and all of its
fabric consumption. Until its recent restructuring into a holding company
and four main production subsidiaries 1/ (para 39), Societe Generale des
Industries Textiles (SOGITEX), was the only public sector textile company.
In 1979, it accounted for about 50 percent of all yarn and fabric manufac-
tured in Tunisia, and for almost all fabric exports. The private sector
consists of about 60 textile companies engaged mostly in weaving, knitting
and fabric production for the local market. There are also some 130
enterprises jointly owned by foreign and local private interests, and
specialized in garment manufacturing for export. These export-oriented
enterprises (EOEs) operate in "Free Zones" and import capital goods, spare
parts, and raw materials in bond for further processing in Tunisia prior to
export, mainly to the EEC. Tunisia does not produce natural or synthetic
fibers--with the exception of small quantities of wool--so virtually all
raw materials are imported. Recent experiments to grow cotton have been
encouraging, and a pilot project is being considered to grow cotton in
southern Tunisia.
30.      Consumption of yarn in Tunisia grew from about 21,500 tons in 1974
to 34,900 tons in 1979, and that of fabric from 34.7 million meters in 1974
to 47.5 million meters in 1979. During the same period production of yarn
and textile fabric increased from 10,600 tons and 43.1 million meters in
1974 to 18,200 tons and 56.8 million meters in 1979, respectively. Indus-
trial production of garments for the local market is not well developed in
Tunisia, and in 1979 about two thirds of the woven fabrics were sold over-
the-counter for home sewing. While domestic production satisfied 98 per-
cent of the demand for new garments, it accounted for only about 50 percent
of the total consumption of all garments, the difference being imported
used clothing, the use of which is wide-spread in Tunisia because of its
low cost. Because of the importance of these articles in the low-income
family budget, the Government has allowed such imports to increase more
rapidly than the total demand for textile products, and there is now con-
siderable pressure from textile manufacturers and trade unions to curb
these imports, which they feel constrain the growth of the domestic textile
industry. Projections of future demand and supply of textiles indicate
1/ The Holding also owns a fifth small subsidiary, SOPIC, which is engaged
in the production of jeans, shirts and sportswear, for both the
domestic and export markets.



- 11 -
that by 1985 the demand for textile yarn and woven fabrics will exceed
supply and by 1990 the deficit is forecast to reach about 11,000 tons of
yarn and 4,300 tons of fabric.
31.      Exports of textile products from Tunisia increased rapidly in the
1970s, and the growth rate accelerated with the establishment of the EOEs.
Between 1973 and 1979, textiles increased their share in manufactured
exports from 10.7 percent to 35.6 percent. Out of the total D 139.5
million exported in 1979, about D 109 million represented garments mostly
produced by the EOEs from fabrics imported in bond, with the balance
(D 30.5 million) being largely cotton fabrics and carpets. Denim--a sturdy
fabric traditionally used for the manufacture of blue jeans--accounts for
the bulk of Tunisia's exports of cotton fabrics followed by work cloth.
32.      Societg Industrielle des Textiles (SITEX)--a subsidiary of SOGITEX
and the main beneficiary of the proposed project (paras 40-42)--is the only
manufacturer of denim in Tunisia. Production started in 1976 on the basis
of an agreement between SOGITEX and Swift, S.A. of Switzerland (a sub-
sidiary of Dominion Textiles Inc. of Canada), which provided technical
assistance and marketing arrangements as well as necessary equipment. EEC
countries represent the major market for SITEX's denim production. By
1980, SITEX was exporting about 15 million square meters to the European
market, including 6 million square meters of denim converted into jeans by
the EOEs. This successful export performance was due to geographical
proximity, a growing market in the EEC (denim consumption in Europe
increased from negligible quantities in 1974 to about 220 million square
meters in 1980), duty-free entry subject to quota restrictions, and a
competitive price for a relatively high quality product.
33.      Imports of textile products into the EEC are currently governed by
the Multi-Fiber Agreement (MFA) for 1978-1981. In 1980 Tunisia utilized
66 percent of the quota for cotton fabrics, and 75 percent of that for
trousers; in France, where SITEX currently sells about 57 percent of its
production, half of the quota for cotton fabrics was utilized. EEC markets
other than France, Benelux countries and Italy are virtually untapped to
sales of SITEX's denim fabric and jeans. The quotas for 1982-1986 are
still under negotiation. However the annual increases under the next MFA
for Tunisia are not expected to exceed 3 percent for fabrics and 5 percent
for garments, in view of the current recession in the EEC textile industry.
Bank Role in the Manufacturing Sector
34.      To date, Bank financing of manufacturing industries in Tunisia has
been limited to loans provided through financial intermediaries. The
Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET) has received seven loans from
the Bank totalling $95.8 million (net of cancellations), of which $6.5
million remained undisbursed as of March 31, 1981. Most of these funds
were used to finance manufacturing industries, although lending for hotels
also took a large share, especially in the early years. The Bank's rela-
tionship with BDET has been most fruitful. It helped meet BDET's foreign



- 12 -
resource requirements while contributing at the same time to strengthening
the bank's organization and operating procedures. At the end of 1979, BDET
held about 40 percent of all long-term industrial credit outstanding to
industry in Tunisia, and about 30 percent of private industrial credit.
35.      Several textile projects have been financed by the Bank through
BDET. Among the objectives pursued by the Bank through its loans to BDET
for the development of the industrial sector there were the promotion of:
(i) export-oriented activities; (ii) industrial decentralization towards
less developed areas; and (iii) low-cost investments in relation to the
number of jobs created or maintained. The seventh loan to BDET (Loan 1504-
TUN of January 1978) of $30 million included $2 million earmarked for
financing the expansion of Small Scale Industries (SSIs). Simultaneously
with this loan, the Bank provided $5 million to the Government (Loan 1505-
TUN) to be used exclusively for lending to new SSIs through commercial
banks, as well as BDET, as intermediaries. The purpose of the Bank's SSI
pilot scheme was to strengthen the ongoing initiatives in the field of
financial and technical assistance to SSIs, and to prepare the ground for a
full-fledged Bank operation for the development of SSIs. On April 14,
1981, the Executive Directors approved a $30.0 million loan to support the
Government's program for SSIs. About 130 SSIs will benefit from the proj-
ect and about 5,200 new jobs will be created at an average cost of $11,000.
36.      The proposed project would represent a continuation of the Bank
involvement in Tunisia's manufacturing sector. The projected increase in
output would require only about one third of the investment needed to
generate such production from a new operation of similar type and size,
while it would contribute greatly to promoting exports and maintaining
employment. The project is expected to result in an about turn in profit-
ability in SITEX, thus reducing Government subsidies to the industrial
sector, while enhancing management capabilities in the public-sector
textile industry in general.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The Government has requested the Bank to assist in financing a
project which represents the first phase of a rehabilitation program for
the public-sector textile industry. The project was identified by a Bank
mission in June 1979; feasibility studies were prepared by consultants
under UNDP financing, and revised with Bank assistance in May/June 1980.
The project was appraised in November 1980, and negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C. in April, 1981. The Tunisian delegation was led by Mr.
Habib Ben Cheikh, President Director General of SOGITEX Holding. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3369-TUN, dated May 7, 1981) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is
provided at the beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project Data
Sheet (Annex III) and a map showing the location of the plants benefitting
from the project are attached.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
38.      The proposed project represents the first phase of the Govern-
ment's rehabilitation program for its textile industry. The project aims
at (i) expanding and improving the quality of SITEX's denim production for
export; (ii) debottlenecking and overhauling certain production lines in
Societe des Industries Textiles Reunies (SITER), Societe Monastirienne des
Textiles (SOMOTEX), and Societ4 de Tissage de Moknine (TISSMOK)--three
other subsidiaries of SOGITEX--to improve their technical and financial
positions; (iii) upgrading the management and accounting systems of the
SOGITEX Group; (iv) analyzing the market potential and developing a market-
ing strategy for SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK; and (v) preparing detailed
investment proposals for the rehabilitation of SOMOTEX, SITER and TISSMOK
to be implemented during the second stage of the rehabilitation program.
Beneficiary: The SOGITEX Group
39.      SOGITEX was created in 1967 through amalgamation of five existing
plants. In January 1979 it was reorganized into a holding company with
three main operating subsidiaries--SITEX, SITER and SOMOTEX. Although the
1979 restructuring of the Group was intended to give the subsidiaries a
large degree of autonomy, SOGITEX retained overall responsibility for
marketing and pricing of the subsidiaries' products. The marketing and
selling role of the holding company did not, however, prove to be effective
and constituted a source of continuing conflict with the subsidiaries. To
remedy this situation the Government decided to transfer all marketing and
sales activities to the subsidiaries as of January 1980. Further, it soon
became apparent that SITER's weaving and finishing facilities did not form
an integrated and manageable entity in either geographical or production
terms, and in January 1981, the weaving mill was spun-off to form a fourth
main operating subsidiary--TISSMOK.
40.      SITEX.  SITEX is the largest operating company of the Group and
would be the main beneficiary of the proposed Bank loan. It is an inte-
grated cotton spinning, weaving and finishing operation producing mainly
denim, for export to the EEC. It operates two plants, one at Sousse
(spinning) and one at Ksar Hellal (weaving and finishing). These facili-
ties were not originally designed for the production of denim and the
changes introduced to convert the mills to denim production created
imbalances, particularly in spinning. Moreover, the low quality of yarn
produced and the use of narrow shuttle looms resulted in a relatively high
proportion of SITEX denim being of low quality, and therefore, penalized
on export markets. Although capacity utilization is relatively high (96
percent in spinning and 86 percent in weaving in 1980), operating efficien-
cies are only 60-70 percent of Western European standards, mainly because
of unbalanced production facilities, worn-out and/or outdated equipment and
shortage of accessories and spare parts. The problem of inadequate produc-
tion facilities is compounded by: (i) inefficiencies in accounting,
inventory management and cost control; and (ii) low labor productivity due
to overstaffing in indirect labor and administrative services.



- 14 -
41.      To overcome some of the difficulties resulting from low denim
quality and loss of production due to imbalances, in 1980 the company
started a modernization program in its spinning plant. The new equipment
(mainly financed through Swift--para. 32), was erected during the fourth
quarter of 1980, and commissioned in March 1981. Because of these invest-
ments, SITEX's yarn production is expected to reach 10,000 tons per year
(22 percent above the 1980 level), starting from 1981. However, the full
benefits of these investments will not materialize unless the remaining old
spinning and winding equipment is reconditioned and service facilities are
upgraded in the Sousse plant, and the existing weaving equipment in the
Ksar Hellal plant is upgraded and new looms installed to produce broader
fabric widths.
42.       SITEX's staff is generally capable and competent.  Most of the
company's senior and middle management are graduates from technical schools
in France and Belgium. However, in the absence of a long industrial tradi-
tion, there is only a limited background of industrial business management
experience in Tunisia to provide the necessary guidance for achieving
productivity and profitability targets. For this reason, expatriate
operating assistance is still needed, and will be included under the
proposed project. At the supervisory level the company has enough staff
who have gained experience while working in textile mills in Europe. Labor
is in general well motivated and trained, and capable of matching the
production performance of Western Europe, if given the benefits of equal
standards of equipment, raw materials and production organization. Future
training requirements will be determined by the consultants to be recruited
under the project (para. 46), and a training and staffing program will be
prepared and submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1982 (Project Agreement,
Section 5.05).
43.      Other Subsidiaries.  SITER operates a relatively modern processing
plant at Bir Kassaa engaged in commission bleaching, dyeing, printing and
finishing of woven textiles. The plant contains a large variety of equip-
ment offering versatility of processing for a wide range of products.
Utilization of several items of equipment is very low, and on average the
plant operates at less than 50 percent of its capacity. Due to past
neglect of effective maintenance and shortages of spare parts, some equip-
ment has deteriorated to such an extent that complete overhauling is
urgently required. In addition, marketing and financial management need to
be upgraded.
44.      SOMOTEX operates three facilities for spinning and weaving in
Monastir. This company is primarily engaged in the production of heavy
work cloth for both the domestic and the export markets, as well as of
furnishings and suitings for local sale. The recent replacement of part of
the equipment has created imbalances in spinning operations, while in the
weaving plant some of the looms are very old and need replacement, as spare
parts are no longer available. In addition, management and accounting
systems, and marketing need to be upgraded.



- 15 -
45.       TISSMOK operates a weaving mill at Moknine, primarily for the
production of light-weight apparel fabrics for domestic use. In recent
years, production has suffered from shortages of spare parts and acces-
sories, and low labor productivity; this has been compounded by inadequate
market research and organization, and substandard financial management and
accounting systems.
Project Description
46.       The proposed project comprises the following components:
(i) Physical Investments in SITEX. These will consist of recondition-
ing of the spinning and winding equipment and service facilities
at the Sousse plant, and upgrading of the existing weaving equip-
ment and service facilities and installation of some 60 extra-wide
shuttleless looms to produce wide denim at the Ksar Hellal plant,
as well as the associated investment in incremental working
capital. These measures will complement the ongoing investments
in spinning (para. 41) and enable SITEX to absorb a portion of its
redundant indirect labor through adequate training. No new labor
will be hired and an agreement has been reached with the labor
unions to operate the new weaving equipment on four shifts, as is
currently done in the spinning plant. Although the mill is
specialized in the production of denim, the new looms will be
equipped with accessories capable of producing other types of
fabric, such as corduroy, shirting and sheeting, thus giving SITEX
the flexibility to absorb fluctuations in denim demand, or to meet
market requirements for other fabrics. Modern but conventional
technology, appropriate for Tunisian conditions, will be used for
the proposed project with the exception of the new looms which
will be of the shuttleless type. These technologically advanced
looms are essential to achieve maximum quality standards required
for export markets. It will not be difficult for SITEX to operate
the new looms since only a small number of operators (20 persons)
will need to be trained, and the company has demonstrated in the
past its ability to deal with advanced technology and will con-
tinue to receive operating assistance. Moreover, shuttleless
technology is not new in Tunisia. This type of loom has been used
in SOMOTEX for 15 years, and the equipment is still in good condi-
tion.
(ii) Physical Investments in SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK. In addition
to the provision of essential spare parts, the project will
provide for: (a) renovation of scouring, bleaching, washing and
dyeing equipment, and acquisition of auxiliary equipment to
improve operating performance at SITER's plant; (b) balancing of
production lines, installation of traveller cleaners on spinning
frames, reconditioning of existing looms, and acquisition of
auxiliary equipment for SOMOTEX; and (c) reconditioning of looms
and provision of auxiliary equipment for TISSMOK.



- 16 -
(iii) Technical Assistance. About 120 man-months of consulting services
will be provided, under two separate contracts, to assist SITEX,
SOMOTEX, SITER and TISSMOK as well as the holding company in
various areas. For SITEX, technical assistance (about 34 man-
months) will include: (a) preparation of detailed project design
including equipment specifications; (b) preparation of tender
documents and evaluation of bids; (c) assistance during erection,
start-up and initial operation of new equipment; (d) assistance in
the preparation and implementation of a training program for plant
operators and technicians--who will be required for the new
equipment--as well as for training of production management and
supervisory personnel abroad; (e) development of appropriate
systems for financial management including cost accounting,
planning and budgeting, internal auditing and management reporting
and control; and (f) development of a project monitoring and
reporting system. For SITER, SOMOTEX, TISSMOK, and the holding
company, technical assistance (about 86 man-months) will include:
(a) development and implementation of financial management systems
including cost accounting, planning, internal auditing and manage-
ment reporting, according to the requirements of modern mill
operations; (b) assessment of SITER's, SOMOTEX's and TISSMOK's
market potential, and improvement of their marketing capabilities;
and (c) preparation of investment proposals for SITER, SOMOTEX
and TISSMOK, to be implemented during the second phase of the
rehabilitation program.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
47.      The total cost of the project is estimated at D 13.2 million
($32.9 million), of which D 10.9 million ($27.1 million) is in foreign
exchange. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent of the
base cost estimate. Price escalation on local costs has been estimated at
7 percent per year on average for 1981-1983, while foreign costs are
expected to increase by 9 percent in 1981, 8.5 percent in 1982 and 7.5
percent in 1983. Engineering and consulting services have been estimated
at $12,000 per man-month, including all expenses. The cost for the
rehabilitation of SITEX is estimated at about $24.5 million (excluding
interest during implementation). While the installed cost per annual
incremental meter, as a result of the proposed project, is estimated at
only $1.40 (as compared to $4 per annual meter for a new operation of the
same type and size), working capital costs are independent of whether the
incremental output is derived from a new or rehabilitation investment. As
a result, incremental working capital requirements ($10.9 million) repre-
sent a large share of total financing required for SITEX. About $4.6
million represent physical investments and consulting services for the
other companies of the SOGITEX Group. Interest during project implementa-
tion is estimated at $3.8 million in total.



- 17 -
48.      The foreign cost of the new looms for SITEX ($5.0 million) will be
financed through $4.5 million equivalent of credits from the Swiss Govern-
ment ($1.5 million equivalent, interest free, repayable over 15 years
including 10 years of grace) and Swiss commercial banks ($3 million equiv-
alent, at an interest rate of 6.7 percent per annum, repayable over 10
years including 3 years of grace) made to the Government and onlent to
SITEX, and a Government equity contribution of about $500,000 for the 10
percent downpayment on this equipment. The proposed $18.6 million Bank
loan will finance the balance of the foreign exchange for equipment, and
the foreign exchange component of consulting services and incremental work-
ing capital requirements. The Government will finance interest during
implementation and all local costs ($9.3 million). Fulfillment of all
conditions precedent to the disbursement of the Swiss credits would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(c)).
49.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Government which would
onlend $14.4 million to SITEX, and $4.2 million to SOGITEX Holding, SITER,
SOMOTEX and TISSMOK. The Government would receive these funds at a 9.6
percent interest rate for a period of 15 years including 3 and one half
years of grace, and would pass them on to SITEX and the other companies on
the same repayment terms, but at an interest rate of 10.6 percent. A
longer grace period than project implementation has been allowed in the
light of SITEX's sensitivity to possible delays in implementation, decline
in revenues, or increases in operating costs. The companies would bear the
foreign exchange risk. All Government contributions to the project would
be in the form of equity. During negotiations, the Government confirmed
its proposed equity contributions to the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01(b)(i)). Execution and ratification of two Subsidiary Loan agreements
between the Government and SITEX, and between the Government and SOGITEX
Holding, SITER, SOMOTEX, and TISSMOK for onlending the proceeds of the Bank
loan, and receipt of (a) legal opinion(s) relating thereto, would be condi-
tions of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Sections
6.01(a) and (b), and 6.02(b) and (c)).
Project Implementation
50.      The project will be implemented over 2 and one half years, and is
expected to be completed by the end of 1983. SITEX's management will be
responsible for all aspects of the project relating to this company.
SITEX's technical assistance requirements will be provided under one
contract. Terms of reference have been discussed and agreed upon between
SITEX and the Bank, and a contract is currently being negotiated with
Swift. SITER's, SOMOTEX's and TISSMOK's managements will be responsible
for implementation of the physical investments envisaged for these
companies, while the technical assistance package for these three sub-
sidiaries and the holding company (to be provided under another contract)
will be implemented under the responsibility of the management of SOGITEX
Holding, in collaboration with the managements of SITER, SOMOTEX and
TISSMOK. Terms of reference were agreed upon with the Bank and proposals



- 18 -
invited from a number of qualified firms are being evaluated. During nego-
tiations, SITEX, SITER, SOMOTEX, TISSMOK and the holding company agreed to
furnish to the Bank all reports and recommendations prepared by their con-
sultants, and to exchange views with the Bank prior to implementation of
these recommendations (Project Agreement, Section 5.06). In order to
ensure that the operations of SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK are upgraded with-
out delay--a necessary condition for successful implementation of future
rehabilitation efforts--it was agreed during negotiations that recruitment
of consultants would be a condition of disbursement for the portion of the
Bank loan to be onlent to SOGITEX Holding, SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2(c)).
Disbursement and Procurement
51.      Disbursement under the Bank loan would be made against 100 percent
of foreign expenditures. No local bids are expected. Proprietary items,
including components needed for overhauling of equipment and spare parts
(about $5.2 million) would be purchased from original machine suppliers;
accessories (about $0.5 million) would be purchased after limited inter-
national tendering; new machinery and equipment for expansion and debottle-
necking (about $4.2 million) would be procured through international
competitive bidding, or limited international tendering for items costing
less than $100,000 and not exceeding $0.5 million in total. The imported
component of incremental working capital requirements (about $7.3 million)
would be procured through the main commodity markets (cotton), or from
qualified manufacturers (dyes, chemicals and spare parts for stock-piling)
using, whenever possible, limited international tendering procedures.
About $1.4 million would be disbursed for engineering and consulting
services.
Marketing
52.      Marketing of SITEX's denim for export is governed by an agreement
with Swift (para. 32), under which Swift retains exclusive rights for the
marketing of SITEX's denim with the exception of up to 0.5 million meters
per annum that SITEX is allowed to sell on its own on the local market.
The present arrangement has distinct advantages for SITEX as it allows it
to dispense with costly marketing functions while establishing a good repu-
tation in the EEC market for its production. Swift also derives benefits
from the arrangement. Although it is responsible for all costs of market-
ing and distribution, as well as of technical assistance and depreciation
of the equipment it has provided to SITEX, it markets the denim in the EEC
where Tunisia has associated status with duty free access. SITEX's price
to Swift is based on the average US ex-factory price adjusted, pro rata,
for width. The price of denim in the EEC market, on the other hand,
includes both higher freight rates than for Tunisian denim, and a 14
percent import duty. As a result, the EEC market price is about 17 to 20
percent higher than the US ex-factory price, enabling Swift not only to
recoup the aforementioned costs, but also to generate reasonable profits.
For SITEX to set up its own marketing and distribution system in Europe



- 19 -
might cost less than Swift will make on the anticipated sales, but Swift's
experience and close marketing connections with the major European jeans
manufacturers are very valuable, particularly when additional volumes need
to be marketed. Both parties feel that they have established a good rela-
tionship, and although the existing contract expires in 1983, both expect
to continue their cooperation. During negotiations, it was agreed that
SITEX will consult with the Bank before modifying existing arrangements or
entering into new ones for the sale or marketing of a substantial portion
of its production (Project Agreement, Section 5.04(b)).
53.      Upon completion of the proposed project, SITEX's yarn and denim
production would reach 13,250 tons per annum and 26 million square meters
per annum--an increase of about 50 percent over the 1980 levels. No diffi-
culties are expected in exporting to the EEC SITEX's production of wide
denim (10.5 million square meters from 1983, as compared to 8.5 million
square meters of narrow denim alone exported in 1980). Given the high
quality of the fabric (SITEX's denim would be within the upper quartile of
the EEC denim market), and SITEX's competitive edge, the whole production
is expected to be easily absorbed even if the EEC fabric quotas for Tunisia
were frozen at the 1980 level and sales of denim continued to be limited to
France, Benelux and Italy (para. 33). Regarding the narrow denim, the
export oriented enterprises (EOEs) have been using increasing quantities of
SITEX's denim in their production of trousers. In 1980, the EOEs exported
about 5.5 million pairs of denim jeans to the EEC, 3.2 million of which
were made from SITEX's denim. While the use of narrow denim is less desir-
able in the high-labor-cost EEC countries, it can still be profitably con-
verted into jeans in Tunisia. The EOEs are therefore expected to take
advantage of the increased local supply of denim and substitute it for
imported fabric.
54.      However, to absorb almost all of SITEX's narrow denim production
by 1983, the EOEs' production of denim jeans will have to increase more
rapidly than that of other cotton trousers. If the required acceleration
does not take place, SITEX could find itself with some excess narrow denim
production in 1981-1983. These amounts are estimated not to exceed 1.3
million square meters of narrow denim in 1981, 2.9 million square meters in
1982, and 1.2 million square meters in 1983. To insure against such an
eventuality, SITEX and Swift are developing a number of alternative market
outlets. The first is to cut the narrow denim into trousers at SITEX, the
pieces being converted into trousers by EOEs with spare capacity, on a
commission basis, for marketing by Swift to minor European jeans manufac-
turers, which are too small either to undertake the investment involved in
establishing their own EOE in Tunisia, or to contract for manufacture by
existing EOEs. At least 1.6 million square meters of narrow denim per
annum could be absorbed in this manner. Another outlet would be to
increase export sales to neighboring countries where low labor costs also
prevail. It is estimated that at least 2.2 million square meters of narrow
denim per annum could be absorbed by such markets. Finally, SITEX and
Swift are actively developing light-weight pocketing that could be sold to
European jeans manufacturers, as well as to EOEs, in a package with SITEX's
denim.



- 20 -
Financial Performance
55.      As mentioned in para. 39, until January 1, 1979 SOGITEX's sub-
sidiaries were operating units of SOGITEX and therefore all historic data
on financial performance prior to 1979 relate to the Group as a whole. As
a single company, SOGITEX was not financially successful. By 1971, the
company had cumulative losses of D 2 million, which were written off by the
Government in 1972, together with about D 3 million of short term debt.
SOGITEX continued, however, to face financial difficulties and the mills
frequently found themselves without essential raw materials, accessories
and spare parts. Furthermore, financial management systems were inade-
quate. As a result, after breaking even in 1972-1974, SOGITEX's financial
situation began to deteriorate once more. With the reorganization of 1979,
the mills acquired independent status, but their financial situation did
not improve since the financial restructuring of the Group--which was
intended to parallel the Group's organizational restructuring--was not
completed until April 1981. In 1979 and 1980 all subsidiaries and the
holding company incurred losses amounting to D 1.1 million and D 1.4 mil-
lion, respectively, on a consolidated basis.
56.      Since the proposed investments in SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK are
small and include a substantial element of technical assistance, detailed
financial projections have not been prepared for these entities. However,
as a result of the increased availability of funds following completion
of the financial restructuring, as well as the investments and technical
assistance included in the proposed project, these entities might approach
the break-even point in 1981 and possibly generate some profits in 1982-83,
when major physical investments are envisaged for their full rehabilita-
tion. On the other hand, with the proposed project, SITEX's financial
performance is expected to improve substantially. Sales revenue is pro-
jected to increase from D 15.8 million in 1980 to D 28.3 million by 1983,
and SITEX would be able to pay dividends of at least D 1 million per year
from 1983 onwards, without the current ratio falling below 1.5 or the
debt/equity ratio exceeding 45:55. This would represent an annual return
of 30 percent on new equity financing for the project or 9 percent of total
Government share capital. From 1986 onwards, dividends could increase to
D 1.5 million without the current ratio falling below 1.7 or the debt/
equity ratio exceeding 32:68. The above dividends would represent a 13.5
percent return on share capital or 44 percent on project equity financing.
The projected profit margin will range between 4.5 percent in 1984 and 14.2
percent in 1993, and is considered normal for the industry. The projected
break-even point is reached at a production of 21.2 million square meters
of fabric, compared with an anticipated production of 26.0 million square
meters at full capacity.
57.      To protect SITEX's profitability, and to prevent the holding
company from using profits generated by each individual company to sub-
sidize the operations of the other subsidiaries, it was agreed during
negotiation that, during the life of the Bank loan, the holding company and
its subsidiaries will (i) not borrow additional funds if, as a result,



- 21 -
according to projections acceptable to the Bank, their respective debt/
equity ratios would exceed 60:40 or debt service coverage fall below 1.3;
(ii) not enter into any major new investment (exceeding $2.0 million per
annum for SITEX; $1.0 million per annum for each of the other companies)
without prior agreement of the Bank; and (iii) maintain a current ratio of
at least 1.2 at all times, whilst taking no action, such as distribution of
dividends or prepayment of debt, if such action would reduce the current
ratio to less than 1.5 (Project Agreement, Section 6.03).
Auditing and Reporting
58.      The Group has only recently started to audit its accounts.  Audits
have been made by a Tunisian accounting company (Societe Fiduciaire
d'Expertise Comptable, d'Organisation Generale et d'Audit--SOGEX), with
which the Group has established a good professional relationship. During
negotiations, SITEX, SITER, SOMOTEX, TISSMOK, and the holding company
agreed that annual audited financial statements will be prepared, in a form
satisfactory to Bank, and will be submitted to the Bank not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year (Project Agreement, Section
6.02). It was also agreed that SITEX, SITER, SOMOTEX, TISSMOK, and the
holding company, as the case may be, will prepare and submit to the Bank
periodic reports on the progress of work and, upon project completion, a
final report assessing the results achieved (Project Agreement, Sections
2.05(b)(iii) and (d), and 3.05(b)(iii) and (d)).
Ecology
59.      The project does not pose ecological problems while it would
improve the working environment in the companies through major modifica-
tions of the air-conditioning systems in spinning and weaving plants.
Similar to the existing steam boilers, the boiler for SITEX to be procured
under the proposed project will be equipped with automatic regulating
devices to restrict the discharge of carbon monoxide in the fuel gases to
acceptable levels. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
companies will operate their facilities with due regard to ecological con-
siderations and occupational hazards (Project Agreement, Section 5.03).
Project Benefits
60.      The financial rate of return for SITEX is estimated at about
20 percent. Both the financial and the economic analysis are based on the
assumption that, if the project were not implemented, SITEX would be closed
down and its existing assets sold off. Since the proceeds of this sale
would represent the opportunity value of the existing assets, they were
added to the cost of the project (net of debt outstanding in the case of
the financial calculations). For the economic analysis, since without the
project SITEX's labor force would be laid-off, labor costs were shadow
priced at 66 percent of their financial value and all local duties and
taxes were netted out from cost and benefit streams. Since all cotton
would be imported and the bulk of SITEX's projected sales would be
exported, no adjustments were warranted in raw materials and sale prices.



- 22 -
On this basis, the economic rate of return for SITEX is estimated at about
30 percent.
61.      Regarding the proposed investments in SITER, SOMOTEX, and TISSMOK
it is possible that they will not suffice to restore profitability, but
they are expected to halt the progressive deterioration of the technical
and financial situations of these companies, while preparing the ground for
a full rehabilitation to be implemented under a follow-up project. The
sizeable technical assistance component included under the project would
permit not only the formulation of detailed investment proposals for the
rehabilitation of SITER, SOMOTEX, and TISSMOK but also the upgrading of the
Group's accounting and management systems to the requirements of modern
textile operations.
Project Risks
62.      Given the small size and the nature of the investments proposed
for SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK, project risks have been assessed only with
regard to SITEX's expected performance. The sensitivity analysis indicates
that this project component faces relatively low risks from a production
point of view. A 10 percent increase in capital cost would only reduce the
economic rate of return of the proposed investments for SITEX to 28.7 per-
cent and is deemed unlikely to occur since the price of a major portion of
the new equipment (i.e. the looms to be financed through the Swiss credits)
is contractually fixed. Regarding the operating costs, raw cotton repre-
sents 56 percent of total production costs and changes in the price of
cotton are normally reflected in the sale price of denim. The other major
cost components (labor, dyes and chemicals) represent relatively small
shares of total production costs and are not closely correlated. A 10
percent increase in total independent operating costs is, therefore,
unlikely to occur, and would only reduce the economic rate of return to
22.7 percent. The major risks of the project relate to marketing. As
mentioned above (paras. 53 and 54), the projections are based on the
assumption that the EOEs will absorb the bulk of the narrow denim produced
by SITEX either directly or on a commission basis. If SITEX's and Swift's
efforts to increase their market share in the EEC, through sales of jeans
manufactured on a commission basis by the EOEs, do not prove successful,
the EOEs' own production of denim jeans will have to increase more rapidly,
from 1981 to 1983, than that of other cotton trousers so as to absorb the
increased production of narrow denim. Should this not occur, SITEX would
find itself with excess production in 1981-83 (para. 54). Besides changing
the output mix (both existing equipment and that to be provided under the
project would allow flexibility), SITEX could reduce narrow denim produc-
tion, and sell the excess yarn on the local market. This would reduce the
economic rate of return to 28.6 percent.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Tunisia, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and SOGITEX, SITEX,
SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special features of the draft
Loan Agreement are referred to in the text, and listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are (i) execution of two
Subsidiary Loan agreements between the Government and SITEX and between the
Government and SOGITEX Holding, SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK and receipt of
(a) legal opinion(s) relating thereto; and (ii) fulfillment of all condi-
tions precedent to disbursement of $4.5 million equivalent of Swiss credits
made to the Government and onlent to SITEX (draft Loan Agreement, Sections
6.01 and 6.02(b) and (c)). Recruitment of consultants for the holding
company, SITER, SOMOTEX, and TISSMOK will be a condition of disbursement
for the portion of the Bank loan to be onlent to SOGITEX Holding, SITER,
SOMOTEX and TISSMOK (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 2(c)).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                         Pago I o f 6
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TUNISIA                          REPERENCE GROUPS (EIGHTED AVE,SCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KH.)                                                          - h E ST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            164.0                                                    NTWU INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      76. 6                              MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA 6          MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    ..      360.0   1120.0                 818.5                  1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    190.0       261.0    543.0                 545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     4.2          5.1      6.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0       43.5      50.1                 45.7                    63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      26.0        31.0      37.0                 40.7                    28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     55.0       67.0      78.0                598.6                    81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        43.3        46.2      42.6                 44.0                    41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        50.0      53.8                 52.5                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.2         3.8       3.6                  3.5                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /c      1.9/c    2.0                  2.6                     2.7
URBAN                              *-         3.6       3.9                  4.5                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0        42.0      32.0                 41.6                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.0         15.0     12.0                 13.7                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1          3.4      2.2                  2.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        29.2      73.5
VSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         8.0      18.0                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        98.0    126.0                  93.5                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  80.0        88.0    112.0                 103.6                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        57.0      73.0                 69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0       14.0      22.0                 17.5                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0       20.0      15.0                 17.5                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   48.0        54.0      57.0                 54.4                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                    148.0/d     135.0        ..                   ..                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         49.0     70.0                 62.5                    65.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 82.9                    80.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    62.3
URBAN                              ..          ..      30.0                   *-                    79.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10000.0      5950.0   4800.0                4688.7                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..       730.0   1070.0                1751.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            373.0/e    410.0    439.0                 635.5                   480.3
URBAN                              ..       280.0
RURAL                              ..       930.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        24.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          5.1 /f   6.0
URBAN                              ..         5.1 7f   5.8
RURAL                              ..         5.1 7?    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         3.2 /f
URBAN                              ..         2.7 7       -*
RURAL                              ..         3.6 7r
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        24.0 /f
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEEZ
TUNISIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LiATIN AMERICA * CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0       100.0     100.0                 76.4                    99.7
MALE                 88.0       120.0     118.0                 92.2                   101.0
FEMALE               43.0        79.0      81.0                 59.9                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        23.0      22.0                 33.3                    34.4
MALE                 19.0        33.0      28.0                 41.9                    33.5
FEKALE                5.0        13.0      15.0                 24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0         12.0      17.0                  9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.0        48.0      40.0                 39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         16.0        28.0      23.0                 25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.5        24.0/f    55.0                 39.7                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0        13.0      18.3                 15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.0        74.0     138.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1        10.0      35.0                 29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER (-DAtLY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0        16.0      33.0                 22.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNlUAL ATrENDANCE PFR CAPITA  2.0         ..       2.3                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FOkCE (THOUSANDS)    1137.9       1214.8   1533.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   6.1         7.7       8.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENS)             56.0        49.8      45.0                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                17.6        21.0      24.0                 23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0        23.7      23.7                 26.1                    31.5
MALE                                50.2        4.2      46.0                  47.4                    48.9
FEMALE                               3.3         3.6       6.0                  4.7                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCy RATIO              1.4         1.8       1.8                  1.9                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT O} HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      17.0
HICGEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..      42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..       6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT Or HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..      15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    204.0                 262.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      97.0                140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RFLATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    193.0                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     193.0                122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      20.0                 22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      13.0                 33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of counktries
among the indicatora depends on availability of dat. end it not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/a 1962. /f 1966.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 19a0.
October. 1980



-  26                                                                             AN-
Page 3 of 6
cEkf1INOtOtIOf SOCIALIJNIICA:los
Notee;   Although th. dat  -ar    ran t o    nNa          dta1     cged the  ust authoritaive and reliahie, It should elan he noted that they say not be te.e--
naIoaly  opaahc   oaucof I.   .            -odardle-d defolnLoti.  and concpts  -sd h: diffIntent co-tien to collectlug the data.  The data are,noe
thelens   oseho  r. oecr  rOo    ,tcac.fc.d.odi,an  trends, and char.ct-ir- certaIn  -aIor differences           he.t ...n nattee..
The refernc  grcope arc    c t h, ...e cont- ge-p of the.ulo   conrend cI).  .a..tr   group n th so.se,hen higher  1orgslonn  than the cannery gep
ot the euh) eo   -n-cr   e0.-pc for-      pcl  opu  oil fpr c    roa   ohre "MIddle Inco-  North Africa an d Kiddle tEst"  Is chase- bn.aaeeof etrengee
e_lo-ulcra   H    toen,     tn r..  ... .r          I_ op dana the  nr        r  popuation weighed aritI1,e-ic neene for eat h indft.te sad sh-  snip whes at
lesen half of the-nuoe enI-             ro 9 fa lat I tar the t ndoa           ...ln     the coerg o.  cu.r.       asng. the%eticanora depends on the svsilsbility at
data and ia  c  on  Ion,  -aox- ...nt hoenere-Iced J,.IIn eaIgaErages of oeindicto  naote.Thes  a                               ..erage  r  aely ..e.u  in neepeetag the  .Ise
of one  c loaoir-t     cinat oc th.coyt ad rfaec   roup..
LAND AREA Ithoonad sqea                                                                        rurlacionper  hysician - rpalatioc dvifedd by nis    at pr ... finl phy-
Tonal- laai sufaceareacomprsingarc aa an  Inlnd waere.ablat  qaaitie  tenta meIcal  nhau  an  niveeity  evel
Agrlultral- Euinae o  agi_lltur    --e  -sd tepralc rp eraety                       Ponallon one Nurals  Person -  eaeIIs dliodad by atbar at ps..tuinta
forcos   unrs.nro   n   Iacc   aoo    rt  lIef laloc   Ih9  dana                              al  and female geadnt  nurses.. pestinal n-e.a. sad aelajtaseo            ees
c-laned hy  -an  conernIon  -ehd as Anmd Bank Atlue  f1977-09 hauls) ; 1960.                   available  in pubIc. and pe lvta genera  sad spenilisd bepital mad Va-
19I ,ad  1979  aa                                                                              hahllitation  cater.Htopitels ac e....ablislinett  pseseatly staffed
hy aleat ens physician.  iatbhlihebsts pe..vldiog principally amae d1il
ENERGlY CONSUMtPTION PER CAP1TA - Acnua..  coneuptj- of                          (:.:caleeo Icol or   r eon teiolae.ra   optl.b.a .iaaehat                                     aia
an Int,ptrlu.ntrl_gas an.yr-.ularad.ohrsl  b.                                                 snc   a  psemasetlyIstffed by a physIcian  (hat by a   adltal ssaiatmset
t   iciy) In kAllsra-  of coal eqiale   pr -apina; 1960, 1970,..ad 1978                        sare.   idwi fe. etc.)  hbich offer te-petiamt a       -dation  sd pee-idaa
dana.                                                                                          halted rsge at asdi-a1 facilities.  Per stattltcal psepama ashes beapi-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                          t.~~~~~nle inclads WIsi   p.inopal ge-era  sd spens1lsad "'epit'le, sad cana
PiPIL.hTtOtl AND VITAL STATIIIICI                                       ~heapitsls loca  ue cora  heepilsai  ad aedloal sd eaemle  reaters.
Tonal Population. Mid-fea  (sllnl- As of July 1; 1960. 1970. end 19798                        dtsoenc  taia   a   TanaI stbne at adleis                      i  at dr isahasgas
dunn.                                                                                       from  hnapitale dtinded hy the ataher at bade.
Irhb    oauio    pret o  lca)                t fn   of urhan no total p.pulatioc;
ditarec dftnicn o               urhnase   ma yatec   caParability of dana               Hsotts
amon  cuusrins; 19h0., 1970, and 1978 data.                                               Avarass lies of Hg.n.abald fearsasea  Isawashold)  ..natal  aches  end scsai-
Pesuletlon P-ol-tlo..                                                                          A h..l  n.selete at a grap of idividgala si   hare ltivin   geac'af
PoPnalanlo  to year 2001 - Curren.t poplaio   pojnn In ae  asd on 19810                      ed eheir mate meals.  A bageder at ledgar say anna  ant be InUIdad in
tlocl popolanlonby age  ndsandthetrsocialIty ad  a tl y rae.                              the house hold tee etatfatiol p-rpasee.
PIotctu    taannrs foe-I.1t Ioc 'ality  race   cop Iseo   he   ed   a.                Ave.rag  nuehr ofprsa   -e  momg - ten,. aches, andW  relel - Avalfaa an-~
ing lii eroPeotncnY at hilrh IncrasIg hot   onr0per capita  non                            e  of-acun  pe rb, 111al  rban  sad eacl epad    u;_animl
lansl  sodfenceII t  enpunaoc  stailing at 77.5 yas   The peru-               deriig. l :reapactivly.  liteel1iege  nluda se-pse-esat sncctr-ea ad
ceter  too fsrlilI-n race alna-   thre  leI            uau. elng decieiluucpndprs
feri"lit y-cordlog  no iocu-  Ioe  and pman tautly plni..Ing performne.-                Accssnotecriln    necet  tdwnlna       aa.  ca.sdma
Each coun try is de   asgnd  n  of thass ninacobiacus   ofortalit                          CovnIaldelnswheltrty                   y1L  is livIng qaribr  ea pat-aa-
and fert Iity  rnaforyr)oc    purpnn.otna,rh, andIi., rural dwlig "I all aceinely.                                                                       I  .  p.-
nhs hieh race In equal coctha deenh cats, and als  the age struc.ture ..              EUA-O
moisa  _onaa-n   This Is achieved only after  -teetlit pete 'decline tO                 A4uated taraIlaetq Btitos
the replausment le-e  of unit ... I.repoution cans, when eah g.s.cution                   Peinscsho      aa,m               n     el   Er..a tota.1  ale end f.seal
of ows         ..p.ce   lteslf  -necly.  The stationary populanienaleess                     enrollnent If all ages an ths primary level as pacoestaas  f reaPmotiv
antimated on the  et  ot b  projected char-on-intirs If the population                       pricury schuol-ags populatlase ; sorelly inolade  children aged h-Il
In nhe ynac 201, adnhe  rae of-decine of fnrnilinyractsntrsplane-                            ygre hat adjusted toe different lesgthe at Primar  edseatle; for
mann lel.-                                                                                   onnre   i uscra   dccaseelaa   a    edm    10  pc tm
Yea  atatlnarY Prra1ation Is esahad - Ths peer when ataio...ry popultan                        snc.osIupl  aehse  or- I           ghati a thle effiia1aaa             P.'
sInetbe hens reached.                                                                     Secon.dary school    toa.eels sed fsla - Ceepstd am abve; .a....sry
Parlaco    5a1                                                                                  sdnei_      rqsrs    t least tone Years at append primary inatrtsele;
Pers. Ia. - MId-your populatlor per sqaura kblleetc  (101 hsotaren) of                       prvde genecl,'. voeiana. or ctoubec tceinIn  inscsstiee   far pepib
total  ma                                                                                    usually of 12 to 17 Yanes of age; ......spnmdeo    -reses  are gescally
Per so  i.  sai nrlelnd - Conjaued as aho- taf ariulurlelnd                                    ...oludad.
only.                                                                                     loctIonal enolen_I           res   tanndr) -        LTaatml. tatitatiam
Pu.lralto    s   trnes(can  - Children (i-14 yecee  wrnggs(15-                                   is-lude te-hir      isdaea  *oether prosese  ehih aparts tedape
hAyar'   and rei.. .61 paca and -nerj as paroerege  otal-yc  pnt                            dentlyora depacctmers ef eanonder  iestittia
aco;96.1970, and 1978 data.                                                         Psu-ece   ats     rmr.sa   aedr    Ttaetedests enrolled in
.poclalu ti EcowbRc   eran)-ttl-has got   ae  of t-Al mid-                                       prfr   a   sedr   eel   iie   yseasa  teahac  I. nh.
year PIPu"tn        n  191hI 96-0,ad 1971-7.                                                   carreeposdisg  a-sl..
Poruetio  Cronh gte larcet) -urba- Annual groeteh rates of urban popo-             Adult ltareon  -enaf(earoet) -  ticrste adilta (sblm to rand sad wits)
laniana Inc 1951-h0. 1960-70, cad 1970-78                                                      .sper.oesnaa o  total adult papulstls aged 15 peaer  and evr.
Crnde Bimbh tan (-n choua..sd) - Annual Ive hirtha per the...aed If aId-year
popule-i"; 196019, end 1978 dare.SMPIO
Crud  Issibtat  l    thouad    A- Ana  dentha per thu...a.d of aid-yea                       Pessn    us(s   huadeeltisa   -Paser   rae esaprie  -eate
puplaios; 16.17.ed978 isis,                                                                  cars asnis  len        -b eight pscn ;  -aludoeebtalaene-  hearse  end
Cros  Ilser.duotioo kEgs - Avergesu nfa daaghtara   woman sill hear in                           ilit."yshul th.          -                     l   "0o     -1g    .    4i
her norma  reprodurnin  period if  h.e aperienc... pres...t aS_-sp fcI In ta-              gRdlo gce In-ra letta(npesata)-AltpsetcnIesfccd
tIlit p eten; usualily fie- year acraseding in 1960), 1970, and 1977.                        braneat   eea   aoprthousand at papleties; enladm   t-Xi-
Psailc Plsoainu - AuccePt-t. Annual (thousands) - AnnuaI nuaha  of  cceptura                   c_sd  _ecinsincuntries a:dIs yaeer  when regitsratien at   di  eat
of birth_-cotrol daci-e  under ausPIce  uf nan 'osal foll   plningr.r.       .               ounPr  ,in effect;date toe  _soeipeceta  not be  eprb    iu  mat
PenIly PIan..    -     C.er   p cerc.n  oIf narridmon - Peros-ua  of mariedcuttnaclnd                                 licssair.
oenochld-haa,rIng  s  (lA   yara   ho ace hlrgh-cotnrcI devIces no                  TVPcInr  (per thousand relsias  - TV rece.ivera for bh..adnast to
alsrld   cnI   er agogop,                                                              general public per thansasd popalatins; ..eludas anlieosaed TVraivc
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                               tI~~~~~~~~~~Ioonsi..esnd in psars  he 8cglsetias of TV sate   a  in  Wfeat.
Iaden of Pond Prod-ctiun oafCapita  199-d7.1100) - Inden of per capita eanusi                  ties ofdaily ganana  inctreet sewepa!pec . dfnde       eidelpb
prd Itn of allI foo  csdIcis    troario.seluessed end teed and                          li-accon d--ocd primaily te Ir...rdisg gamacm, tea    I is 1  onmained
is" rnclna   erbnl.CsnIscn   primar ods (a.s. anganas                                        to ha "daily" it it appears at least fear times a net
instead of auger) which are edible end -nstain nutrients (e.g. cetfee end                  Cinem  hans-l Attend..n. per Clseta pear Year - Rinsd enshenear of
tea ar  en!r dedI.  Aggueproductios of   obh countr-y Is base.d on                           slohkna seld durIng nba year, isorldIng admisei-  tn driv-Sn aIf-a
national averag  prcducar Pni-s wei5n; 1961-65. 1970. esd 1978 dat.                          end  oblls ..ict..
Per -cerice_rl   fclorie  leerc--t of reautrensos) - Cunputnd fote-
ene rgy eqnoeInt of net tond aupp -esn 1la1)  in country per .a.pita                  LABOR FORCE
pebay  v Iabe npplien comprsdoetcpduin,Icrnla                                 Total Labur Force lh....usda) - Ecnscmicaly norms. parson  * inoldiMg
quports, ao:d cingu  In. stock,. . Sec aupp ... eic lde animab fn,  seeds,q               arme-d force  end c.....peYnd hub    acldngbueva.adns.tc
qunstir ten ued cc loud prcesalug, and  usasa un dlscihatlun.  ReqIre-  Deflnnin. in  -uri .oa co..enries acesu  _aps...ble  1968. 1970 ead
tenn  wereotisacd by FAl case d on physinlelr-l needs for normu   c-1                    1976aa
cityandheglh cnsidrin  enironsunti1 temperature, body uslghta.  g.              Peasfrcenul  - Peale  labor f.cc aa percescag  atntllbrfrs
and sea dlanrthuncu  of popolatlo,adslan  10 percet f or o--ee                           Agiutrrpret   Lahr force In farmls..  faraftry  boating sa
huosebhold l1-o; 1961-65, 1970, en  1977 dane.                                             ti.itsta  prctgof total labor furcel 19h0. 1970'sad 11975 dana.
Pennr it  surly o  oroeir  arem   earday) - Procein contest oF Per capita       Ind-arc  perc...c) -Labor forra in eiSis. rnsstctaninn- aasetr
oat supply of fond pe   ey    e  spl  uf fo   sdfnda  aoe    e                             i   lrci  l,wsed  gas  e percentage ef tasl labor terra; 1960.
qui=enmct to  all Coun.trIes astabliahad bp 111DA pronido fur mInim                        1970 nnd 1976 Ants.
alloanceof  0 grma  f itlproteIn per day and 20 grass of anImal and               rartciniraile   gtat  (osroet  -feal   ae,adtenl  - Pacciniptiem  er
pulse protuin, of which        I     .gan .soud be aima  peoteir.  Theessnand-            activity rtens  ar   omue.a.n.l al,sd  el  lbhac foreme
ard. ar  lower tun thune uf 75 fram   of totlpnenad2   rn   f                              prengeo  note.. sl.            n   el    essin  fslae   spnts
anma  poninaseacrae  orth   nrd,prpnsdb  Pl c  heThr                                 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.  Th:eseasIospeiiainctmrfasn
p orldPid luvy"         91A,17   n 1       977I ,,  n    daa                                  esaerctaretof the popult1 n, and lean rime tred.  A ten  -ti-
Pe   a Incroninsreyp   rm   nma  ad-uaPon n .upply ot food de-                         mate  r   ro   aiue,ngos
rie frue animals and pulses in gr---  per day; 1961-6), 1970 and 1977 date.    Econua,  DePndencv  Utais -Rbie at papalatto  nade  15 mad 65 sad e
Child (sas  1-A) Mourtelbit  Rtat  (per nhnuenad) - Annual dweah  per thousand Is              tn nhs  oa.      ao t u.l rns-.
age froup I-A years, is childeow  In chin age group; f" c"oa  dene.lopingcon
cries dat  d-i-ed trot life tables; 1960, 1971 end 1977 data.                           INCOMtE DISTRIBLTIONI
Pecnag   fPivate Inne    bosh in cash  Ia  bind) - geevd by riohast
______                                                                                           5   ret.frIchest 21 ~peret   ora  20 peIrcet, end pownasst A0 pc-can
1,Ife IEntanon atirth (veers)   A osrage number of peers of life roemainig                     of honesho1ds.
anbirth; 1960,t1970 and 1978 dar._
Aloosen to Sal.  ea  (rrsea  er              u)-1  total, urban, ad rual- i                    Ahenluce Povsrty  moe           vlei than leseo     eetee  wto       iia
guhe  of peuple (ts,uban,  ndrurl  wt                bse ale  -...s en ear                   sucitiosel  Adequate diat plea essential nan-fend enqilmes is sat
wtsr supply (I.oludes trestnd surface esters or uscre....d bun  -nonteeittce                afrndbn..
noie hsoas tha  from  protected boreholee,spig,ad 'sseY wsllsl                         e.tijeend Re.I.v  Poety-onsLee  (Lernrt)-  se                                 as 
perosnege     I of  Jher rspernice  populations.  lo  nubsae   publin                        rua  relative ponnec         "IcoslvlIn  n-third  of avrg                aita
..I ousub  or  _adposet located sos ma re thac 200 esters focabouh.    may bn              pesnllcnI           fthe .o.s.. ry.Ub Irn   leve Is1 darivd fee the meal
con:.IdardnbeIng wiIthlI.. Is  s      boels  ,Coane of tha .h,n.In rare),areas               level stb  adjusctest for his  test of lining is arOm   cas
resnble ucesoud imp ly than the ho-si f' a  rebersIf tehuhl                            Eatieated Pon..lution gels AbsouePvcyIct   ea   eca)-  _e.rhan..
do  ocav   noepend Iadspooticntt part o_cedyIeclgteadenI-Preno   oaaitfra  and rua)se_r_asluepe'
Acsa  tcI hnce-     disl. Isunto I         nuIfs   coneS  urbain    andig~..d                                -..tI    p..i               Ibe
dispoa .. sa. percentages of their respnni-e pupujatios.   scet  dIn                                                        Eos"'ic  n  Soia  Data  li"iali"
Poa  maI yI Inclde the colcinad diepose. w. ith cc  ftnhout cresemen,                                                  t-oaemi  Analysi.eosd Pnjsntiem   lsparntet
of huma  eurt    nd  mts-vat.r by water-borne sysctm   u-  chase  ootaher 1960
pitrivn   and simlrieaatoa



- 27 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.2 mIllion (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,120  (1979)
Amount                                                          Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                      Actual (at 1972 prices)                              Projected  (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                                   at current prices)
1979                   1975      1976     1977      1978      1979A8          1980      1981     1982      1983     1984
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product D/                      7080.0                     8.1      7.4       4.3      8.3       6.9             8.0       7.2       6.6      6.4       6.6
Agriculture                                  984.7                    3.9       5.2    -7.5        8.6      0.5              8.0       7.6      3.1       3.1      3.1
Industry                                    1982.0                    7.4      7.8       7.0      9.1       8.4             11.6      8.5       8.5      8.0       8.0
Services                                    3102.9                   10.6      5.4       5.8       7.7      8.4              6.6      6.2       6.5      6.5       6.5
Consumption                                    5440.3                     2.7      8.8       9.5      9.3       6.0              7.8      9.9     10.0       6.9       9.1
Gross investment                               2069.0                   20.2      16.9       5.8      6.6       9.7              7.2      3.1    -2.9        1.3      0.1
Exports of goods and GNFS                      2655.6                     5.0      9.6       5.6      9.1      12.6             5.0       4.1       7.4      7.3       8.8
Imports of goods and GNFS                      3084.9                    2.2      19.3     16.5      10.2       8.5             4.6       7.5      7.5       4.6      9.6
Gross national product                          7030.7                    8.6      6.0       4.8      9.1       6.3              7.8      7.2       6.5      6.4       6.6
Gross national savings                                                  22.5      -6.3     -1.7      21.2      35.8            17.6    -0.9       -4.1       7.6       0.8
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                           134.2    137.7    151.4   158.6    171.9                 -         -        -         -        -
Exchange rate                                                             2.49     2.33      2.33     2.40      2.46
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                         Average Annual Increase  (X)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1970     1975      1979     1985                      1970-75      1975-79       1980-85
Gross domestic product                                                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                              8.5          6.5          6.6
Agriculture                                                          16.7   18.2        13.9     13.1                         8.8          1.3          3.7
Industry                                                             20.5    27.1       28.0     29.2                         9.0          7.8          8.1
Services                                                             49.3    42.7       43.8     43.2                         8.7          6.6          6.4
Consumption                                                             84.8   75.5        76.8      82.8                         8.6          8.3          9.0
Gross investment                                                        19.7   29.3        29.2      20.9                       11.8           6.5        -0.4
Exports of goods and GNFS                                               21.9    31.3       37.5      40.3                       12.5          12.2          6.9
Imports of goods and GNFS                                               26.4    36.1       43.6      44.0                       11.3          12.7          7.4
Gross national product                                                  97.9   99.9        99.3      99.4                         8.7          6.5          6.7
Net factor income                                                         2.1     0.1        0.7      0.6                          -            -            -
Gross national savings                                                   13.2    24.3       22.4     17.9                         7.5          5.9         -1.7
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1970       1975        1979 a/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                             23.5        25.7        33.3
Current expenditure                                         20.4        19.9        24.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                    3.1         5.9        9.0
Capital expenditure                                           9.5       10.8        13.5
Foreign financing                                             5.0         1.8        1.6
1970-75                1975-79                 1980-85
OTNER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                          8.7                     6.5                     6.7
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                6.3                     3.9                    4.2
ICOR                                                          2.6                    4.3                     4.0
Marginal savings rate                                       30.5                    17.6                     0.0
Import elasticity                                             1.24                   2.01                    1.12
a/ Estimate.
b/ GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA CP 2C
October, 1980



- 28 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Amount                                                  Annual Growth Rates
(million USS                   Actual (at 1972 prices)                            Prolected (at 1977 prices)
Indicator                               at current prices)
1979                  1975    1976    1977    1978    1979              1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                         1762.6                 -9.0      5.8    -5.0    16.0    10.1               6.1      1.3      7.1      6.8     9.3
Crude oil                                 800.0                 27.7   -15.0       1.9    14.0    91.3             11.6    -4.5      9.0      8.6      0.0
Other primary                             123.0                -26.7    21.8   -17.9    34.7    10.0             -11.7      5.8      2.7      2.6      2.5
Manufactures                              839.6               -14.6    37.2    -1.5    21.9    14.8                 1.3      6.3     6.0      5.7    18.8
Merchandise imports                         2827.3                 -0.4    13.6    30.4        5.5    11.7             4.3      7.6      7.7      4.6    10.0
Food                                      358.9                  7.7   -13.5    25.5    11.1    22.2                7.2     9.9    10.0       6.0      8.9
Petroleum                                 493.5                 43.1   -24.8    -8.5    -3.9    25.7              -9.8    11.0    12.5    -3.4    37.0
Machinery and equipment                   704.8                 33.3    19.1       2.4     5.2   -11.0            -1.3      1.3      0.0      1.3      0.0
Others                                   1270.2                 -8.0    31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1              9.9      9.0     9.1      7.3      8.3
Price Index (1972 - 100)                          Price Index (1977 - 100)
PRICES
Export prlce index                            -                   191.0   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9             196.4   218.8   241.2   264.2   293.2
Import price index                                                170.4   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6              146.6   160.7   175.4   187.4   203.1
Terms of trade Index                                              112.1   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3              134.0   136.2   137.5   141.0   144.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)                    Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current Prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1970      1975       1979        1985                 1970-75    1975-79    1980-85
Exports                                                          100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                  11.6         9.4         6.1
Crude oil                                                     24.5        41.8      45.3       54.9                   23.2         3.0         0.0
Other primary                                                 21.2        18.0        7.1        5.2                   6.7         2.0         3.0
Manufactures                                                  54.3       40.2       47.6        39.9                   6.2        14.3         9.9
Imports                                                           100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0                  13.4        12.4         7.6
Food                                                            20.6     15.8       12.7        17.9                   8.9         7.5         8.8
Petroleum                                                        4.0      9.8        17.5       22.6                  36.5        23.2        14.5
Machinery and Equipment                                         23.0      30.2       24.9       27.6                  15.7         8.3        -0.1
Others                                                          52.4     44,2       44.9        31.9                  10.6        13.2         8.4
Share of Trade with                Share of Trade with                     Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries               Developlng Countries (Z)           Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (2)
1970     1975       1979           1970       1975       1979               1970       1975       1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                         62.6      48.6       74.1          23.4       41.4       n.a.               14.0       10.0       n.a.
Imports                                         62.9      67.1       73.5          33.7       25.7       n.a.                3.4        7.2       n.a.



ANNEX I
TUNISIA -  PAIANCE OP PAYMENTS. EXTEBNAL CAPITAL AND DET
Populatlon:        6.2 millIon (mid-1979)
GIP Per Capita:  $1,120 (1979)
Actual                                                  roelected
1970        1075         1976         1           1978          ig798L        1980      3981        1982       1983       1985
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & servIces          -104.5       -208.8       -417.1       -567.0       -599.7       -478.5       -350.8    -499.5    -567.2    -427.8    -744.7
E.ports of goods & services            355.6       1,529.2      1,479.4      1,695.5      2,090.6      2,913.9      3,548.4   4,062.4   4,746.0   5,503.1   7,384.3
Imports of goods & services            460.1       1,738.0      1,896.5     2,262.5       2,690.3      3,392.4     3,899.2   4,561.9   5,313.2   5,930.9   8,129.0
Not traosfern                              53.0         47.4         52.8         46.4         33.6         3i.0         36.0       36.0       36.1       36.1       36.1
Currest acceont balance                  -51.5        -161.4       -364.3       -520.6       -566.1       -447.5       -314.8    -463.5    -531.1    -391.7    -708.5
DIrect private i-vesrteet                  25.5         50.2        102.6         92.3         91.1        164.8        181.3      199.4      219.3      241.3      292.0
MLT  coans (set)                           43.4        124.5        161.1        537.1        468.6        383.0        324.0      346.9      405.7      227.6      559.7
Official                                 41.7        102.9        131.5        206.7        184.8        256.0        364,9      366.4     397.4       328.6      280.0
Private                                   1.7         21.6         29.6        270.4        283.8        126.2       -40.9      -19.5         8.3    -101.0      279.7
Other c-pital                               2.0        -53.0         58.6       -185.5         41.4         32.4          -          -          -          -          -
Cha.ge in reserves                       -19.4          39.7         42.0         56.7       -35.0       -132.7       -190.4      -82.8      -93.9      -77.2    -143.3
Ieternctlo.aI reserves                     15.4        347.5        304.5        247.8        282.8        415.5        605.9      688.8      782.7      859.9   1,134.7
Reserves as months of imports               0.4          2.4          1.9          1.3          1.3          1.5          1.9        1.8        1.8        1.7        1.7
Actual
1970     1975      1976      1977      1978     1979-ff
GROSS D18bURSEMENTS
Official grantt.                                                43.0      50.2      53.2     47.3      32.7      31.0
Cros  disboraeetn  f MLT lees                                 88.8    191.8    227.2    646.7    575.1    661.6
C.o esslon-l                                                  45.2    100.1    108.7    178.4    182.3    279.6
Other aoltiloceccl                                             1.0       5.5        -       0.3       7.6      12.7
Bilateral                                                     41.3      82.0     99.8    172.5    174.1    266.7
IDA                                                            2.9      12.6       0.9      5.6       0.8       0.2
.o-0-oe.es.icnsl                                                43.6      91.7    118.5    468.3     392.6    385.0
Private                                                       33.1      49.0     52.2    311.0    534.8    243.0
Official aeport crdite                                         1.3      15.0      16.5    100.6      12.0      16.3
IBRD                                                           9.2      26.9     25.3      47.5      33.0      55.4
Otber saltiloteral                                              -         -      24.5       0.4      12.8      67.3
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outotandlog cod Dlsb-r-ed                                 544.8  1,038.9  1,175.2  1,780.1  2,358.9  2,893.9
Official                                                     370.9    862.2    987.5  1,308.6  1,567.1  1,931.3
lreg                                                        70.1    109 .     127.9    167.3    189.4    2323.
EDA                                                         36.7     55 3      64 1      66.8     67.4      67 3
Other                                                      264.1    697.1    795.3  1,074.5  1,310.3  1,632.0
Private                                                      173.4    176.7    187.7    471.5    791.8    962.6
Uodisbo-sed debt                                               308.9    725.3  1,260.4  1,551.5  1,708.9  1,569.9
DEBT SE8IVCE
fotsl debt service payments                                     63.2    101.6    104.6    143.7    201.6    310.3
Intrerot                                                      17.0     35.1      38.7      53.9      95.0    142.0
Paymeete as I exports                                           17.8       6.7       7.1      8.5       9.6      10.7
Pay-eet. as 7 GNP                                                4.4       2.4       2.4       2.8      3.4       4.4
Ave-e 1e Itterest rate en  n  Loans (%)                           -        3.9       5.1      6.2       7.1       6.3
Official                                                        -        3.3      0.3       4.7       4.8       6.3
Priva'te                                                        -        6.7      8.0       7.7       9.08
Average  aturIty cf  -ev I.acs (years)                            -       24.0      20.7     16.3      14.9      19.4
Official                                                        -       27.1     23.9      21.4      19.5      19.4
Private                                                         -        9.1      8.9      10.7       9.4        -
A. X of Debt Ocistatdlsg
at Esd of Most Recent
Year (1979)
DEPT STRUCTURE
MaturitY satr-c-re of debt vctntandilg (5)
Amor. i4ctIon due aithie 5 yers                                                      49 .0
A..ryiearlcn doe cithir 10 yesrt                                                     92.7
icrerect rracccrne f dobt r cts ondicg (1)
Intereot  doe virhie firrt year                                                       6.5
a! Furlctec..



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                  Amount (less
Credit                                                                                   Cancellation)
Number   Year           Borrower                     Purpose                      Bank    IDA b/   Undis.
Twenty-four Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                    162.36   60.47
238     1971  Republic of Tunisia             Population                                   4.80      1.14
858     1972  Republic of Tunisia             Tourism Infrastructure             14.00               2.52
937     1973  Republic of Tunisia             Urban Planning & Public            11.00               1.42
Transportation                   -
1029     1974  Republic of Tunisia             Hotel Training                      5.60              0.39
1042     1974  Compagnie des Phosphates        Phosphate Development              23.30               1.19
et Chemin de Fer de GAFSA
1068     1974  Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Rehabilitation          12.20              4.73
1088     1975  Republic of Tunisia             Urban Sewerage                     28.00              12.41
1155     1975  Republic of Tunisia             Third Education                     8.60              7.36
1188     1975  Republic of Tunisia             Second Highways                    28.00             20.23
1189     1976  Banque de Developpement         Sixth Development Finance Co.   20.00                 0.66
Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
238-1    1976  Republic of Tunisia             Population                                   4.80      1.12
1340     1976  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Second Agricultural Credit            12.00              3.13
1355     1976  Socift4 Tunisienne de           Second Power                       14.50              0.62
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1431     1977  Republic of Tunisia             Irrigation Development             42.00              17.15
1445     1977  SONEDE                          Fourth Water Supply                21.00              14.88
1504     1977  BDET                            Development Finance Co.            30.00              5.85
1505     1977  Republic of Tunisia             Small-Scale Industrial Project   5.00                 3.27
1601     1978  Republic of Tunisia             Rural Roads (Third Highways)    32.00                30.02
1675     1979  Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Sewerage              26.50             26.35
1702     1979  Societe Nationale               Fifth Water Supply                 25.00              16.81
d'Exploitation d'Eau
1705     1979  Republic of Tunisia             Second Urban Development           19.00              18.69
1746     1979  Republic of Tunisia             Second Fisheries                   28.50             28.15
1796     1980  Republic of Tunisia             Southern Irrigation                25.00             24.84
1797     1980  Office des Ports Nationaux   Third Port                            42.50             32.95
1841     1980  Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Highways                    36.50             36.50
1864a/   1980  Societe Tunisienne de           Second Natural Gas Pipeline        37.00             37.00
l'Electricite et du Gaz
1885 a/  1980  Banque Nationale de Tunisie  Third Agricultural Credit             30.00             30.00
c/      1981  Republic of Tunisia             Fourth Education                   26.00             26.00
TOTAL                                                            765.56   70.07   405.38
Of which has been repaid                                          78.38    5.13
Total now outstanding                                            687.18   64.94
Amount Sold                             14.33
of which has been repaid               11.42                      2.91
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                684.27   64.94
Total Undisbursed                                                403.12    2.26   405.38
al Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment
c/ Not yet signed



- 31 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of March 31, 1981)
Amount in US$ Million
Year       Obligator                              Type of Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                Fertilizers                 2.0      1.5      3.5
1966   Societe Nationale d' Investissement        Development Finance Co.              0.6      0.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                            Development Finance Co.   8.0        2.2     10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                         Development Finance Co.              0.6       0.6
1973   Societe Touristique & Hloteliere
RYM SA                                    Tourism                     1.6     0.3       1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                     2.5     0.7       3.2
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Chemicals                           0.6       0.6
1978   BDET                                       Development Finance Co.              1.2      1.2
Total Cross Commitments                                               14.1     7.7      21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                 7.2      1.8       9.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      6.9     5.9      12.8
Total undisbursed                                                              0.4       0.4



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness;
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After many delays, construction of the maternity hospitals in
Sousse, Tunis and Sfax is completed. These facilities are expected to be
staffed and fully operational by mid-1981. The construction of the fourth
hospital at Bizerte is likely to be completed by end 1981. Twenty-five of
the 29 maternal and child health/family planning centers have been com-
pleted; three are expected to be completed by mid-1981. One center (La
Hafsia) has been deleted from the project because the Government has been
unable to obtain a suitable site.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness; June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is in its final implementation stage. The remaining
works are expected to be completed by mid-1981. Disbursements are being
made only on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 937;        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of
October 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed except for construction of a bus
depot which is expected to be ready by October 1981. The project helped
establish and strengthen the Tunis District, the first regional planning
authority in Tunisia. Work carried out by the District in the housing and
transport sectors has been instrumental in bringing about substantial
changes in public programs and policies, such as the adoption of measures to
encourage the use of buses and restrain the use of private cars. The
project also assisted the public transport company Societe Nationale des
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Transports (SNT) in renewing its bus fleet and railway rolling stock,
improving its organization and finance, and upgrading the maintenance of its
vehicles with the construction of a new bus depot. In parallel, the city of
Tunis adopted a new traffic plan with a one-way street system, reserved bus
lanes and restricted parking zones, which contributed substantially to the
improvement of bus services in Greater Tunis. This, combined with an
increase in the SNT bus fleet, and improved bus maintenance has led to an
increase in the use of SNT transport facilities by about 27 percent above
the level which would have been achieved in the absence of the project.
Ln. 1029;       Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The hotel schools at Hammamet and Sousse Nord are now operational.
The training curricula have been introduced in September 1979 and extended
to all training schools in the country. Disbursements are being made only
on commitments prior to December 31, 1980.
Ln. 1042;       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974;.Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Underground mining operations using the longwall method were
intended to supply phosphate rock to the Sehib washing plant which was
commissioned at the end of 1979. Following the initial failure of the
mining tests to reach satisfactory production levels, the company hired
experienced consultants whose services are financed by the Bank loan. The
services include: (i) 6 months' technical assistance in further testing the
longwall method, (ii) a feasibility study on open pit mining of an alterna-
tive deposit from which the supply of rock to the washing plant could be
supplemented, and (iii) the design and implementation of an improved cost
control system. The longwall test has not achieved a continuous good
performance. The first phase of the open pit feasibility study is
completed. The second phase will be started after completion of additional
geological and beneficiation work. Cost control in the company is still
inadequate.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation works in the Medjerda
sub-project area continues to be satisfactory, except for the marketing
center in Nebhana for which bids are called again after the previously
successful bidder went bankrupt. In the Medjerda area, land reform is pro-
gressing slowly, and farmers are lagging behind in meeting their contribu-
tions to the investment costs. In Nebhana, the land consolidation



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
program is developing well and farmers have been settled on nearly 65 per-
cent of the total area. OMVVM continues to encourage large owners to
improve cultivation of land and marked progress has been reported in the
distribution of medium and short-term credit. Progress in construction and
rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage and road networks continues to be
satisfactory. Production of early vegetables under greenhouses in the
Nebhana is encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project;  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1981.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity, ONAS. As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by
untreated sewage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a
land-use plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in
progress.
Ln. 1155:       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily; designs for the
extension of the five teacher training colleges have been approved and
invitations for local bidding are scheduled for April 1981. Equipment
procurement for the teachers' colleges and the ITM centers is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works of Lots 9 and 10 of the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been
completed. Construction is in progress on Lot 6 in Nabeul. Construction
works of Lots 5, 7 and 11 have started. The local financing issue has been
discussed with the Ministries of Public Works and of Planning and Finance,
and a satisfactory physical and financial execution plan now exists for the
remaining items, except for Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of



- 35 -                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
expropriation which may result in deleting this element from the project.
The final report of the transport coordination study has been completed.
The Government is now reviewing the consultants recommendations, and has
agreed to set up a transport planning unit.
Ln. 1189:       Sixth Development Fi,nance Company Project;  US$20 million
loan of January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness; June 7,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
BDET has shown consistent improvements over the past three years in
the key areas of management effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial
practices and resource mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly
important role in financing industrial development, extending about one-
third of all term credit available to the industrial sector in Tunisia.
Disbursements are being made only on commitments prior to March 31, 1981.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
November 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
About 75 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed from the
Third Agricultural Credit project. Disbursements in Categories 1, 2 and 4 -
subloans to small and medium farmers, commercial farmers and agro-industrial
investors - are progressing rapidly. They will commence shortly in Category
3, subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations, after BNT and Government have approved six subprojects. The
Closing Date may have to be extended to December 31, 1981.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project has been completed and the seven gas-turbines
have been commissioned. Measures are being taken to overcome difficulties
in operating the turbines, which have arisen due to excessive use and lack
of spare parts. The energy pricing study has been extended in scope to
include an overall assessment of the country's energy resources and is now
expected to be completed by the end of 1981.
Ln. 1431:       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule. The



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
new railroad, including superstructure, is now completed and will soon be
operational. After some initial delays, construction of the Medjerda-Cap
Bon interconnection canal is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the proj-
ect is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule. Having increased the average water rates in 1979 by
about 44 percent, the borrower's financial situation is expected to remain
satisfactory for the next two years.
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economicue de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to 551; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The $5 million loan to the Government is fully committed, as is the
$28 million component to BDET. The $2 million earmarked for the financing
of SSI extensions is half committed. Disbursements are in line with
appraisal estimates. 11nder the project, BDET is giving priority in its
financing to projects which are located in the least developed regions,
sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high labor intensity or
export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the commercial banks'
initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing has been over-
come. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian authorities
toward setting up a network of Tunisian and foreign technical assistance
experts, specifically catering to the needs of SSI, as agreed under the
project.
Ln 1601:        Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the provinces to be
covered under the project. The Government wishes to accelerate implementa-
tion so as to complete construction works by end-1982. Progress on the
complementary agricultural component, after an initial delay, is now
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln 1675:        Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is proceed-
ing. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln 1702:        Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness; October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule. SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement is expected to be completed by June 1981.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
Staffing of the project units and preparation of tender documents
are progressing satisfactorily. Civil works have started on two Tunis sites
and one Sfax site and service areas. All technical work on the civil works
component is progressing well.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded. Detailed
design for the boats has been delayed due to delays in contract finalization
with the consultants. Engines are being procured under ICB; analysis of
bids is still in progress.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project. Bidding documents and bids have been reviewed by the
Bank for procurement of asbestos-cement pipes.



- 38 -                           ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness; June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
The contracts for civil works have been awarded. Work has now
commenced at La Goulette after delays in agreement on an acceptable location
of a site for depositing material to be dredged from the project area. No
work has yet commenced at Sfax due to delays in moving the Chantiers Navals
from their present location to the new fisning harbor nearby, and checking
of final design. Consultants to supervise the works at Sfax have been
appointed.
Ln. 1841:       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well and according to
schedule. All the elements of the 1981 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have now been received and reviewed.
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 22,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project is
being redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute to premium liquid
fuel products. Amendment to legal documents is under preparation.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Planned Date of Effectiveness: June 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and agroindustries.
The loan is not yet effective, pending receipt of the legal opinions.



- 39 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
TEXTILE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by SOGITEX to                    16 months (July 1979-October
prepare project                            1980)
(b) Agency that prepared the project           SOGITEX and consultants under
UNDP assistance
(c) Initial discussion with the Bank           June 1979
(d) Bank project preparation mission           November 1979
(e) Appraisal mission                          November 1980
(f) Date of completion of negotiations         April 24, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness              September 30, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III Special Conditions
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
(a) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement of $4.5
million equivalent of Swiss credits made to the Government and
onlent to SITEX (para. 48); and
(b) Execution of two Subsidiary Loan agreements between the Government
and SITEX and between the Government and SOGITEX Holding, SITER,
SOMOTEX and TISSMOK for onlending the proceeds of the Bank loan,
and receipt of (a) legal opinion(s) relating thereto (para. 49).



-40 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Condition of Disbursement
Appointment of consultants for SOGITEX Holding, SITER, SOMOTEX and
TISSMOK will be a condition of disbursement for the portion of the Bank loan
to be onlent to SOCITEX Holding, SITER, SOMOTEX and TISSMOK (para. 50).
Other Conditions:
During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) the Government will contribute not less than D 3.9 million as
equity financing of the project (para. 49);
(b) SOGITEX Holding, SITEX, SITER and SOMOTEX shall (i) not borrow
additional funds if, as a result, according to projections accept-
able to the Bank, their respective debt equity ratios would exceed
60:40 or debt service coverage fall below 1.5; (ii) not enter into
any major new investments (above $2.0 million per year for SITEX or
*1.0 million per year for each of the other companies), without
prior Bank approval; (iii) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.2
at all times, and refrain from taking any action, such as distribu-
tion of dividends or prepayment of debt, if such action would
reduce the current ratio to less than 1.5 (para. 57); and
(c) SITEX shall consult with the Bank before modifying existing
arrangements or entering into new ones for the sale or marketing of
a substantial portion of its production (para. 52).



IBRD 15613R
~~v                BO' ~                 ~           M                  MAYz iW
DJ JANE                 LEuZ                G.E AOAf   f7
8O~,BGU BA   Ti Uk-              i n iOJAJ
TRAI-IA   AMOUNE            -I  HAA
MA CO                   EtZE Z 8FA
.-/ JENDOUOUEBAEBA8g A *                                                 F
TESTO    ELBABHURANB                                  '
IE 1.1.                                                B AL *A ARE
0A 
SOMTX                                      TJ; SA EE5T
TISS1MOAKASYELKW                                                                   E
  Provincial Capitals   ~ ~      A F R I C    A 'AMM
UETTAR    )  2AKIE
Eat aMAINelRad                                                                EADA
~~~~~~~~~JRU                                                 r                                RA
>   ;                 t    \     \     \              ^ ffiJ              A EE iENA                               rb_
\ L   Ports                     --'!                 '                )             WL 
LL                  1                          IOZWMTAA    IA                                                 2
T U N I S I A                            F EDDACHE           / ~~~~~~NC
LOCATION  OF TEXTILE MILLS                                             TATADONINE         /6
S  n ernaTinoil   irpiorTs                             L,  RIC      
-  Saoinlt   Boa noes e                             1            7                                             $
RivedRoos                                        9'         '
Eorth~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ond Gre Rod  )b e s
GA Rolvoy                                                                                        $OUK>  /     EMD
-     So l~ t     , Doe                                                                             rs dk5ra Xlswh ,
-. -   nternaT ionaJl Boundarires       0     20        40    BO     80     100                       vr,oni,,hontrvir  fthf
KILOMETERS KEvro4nk POI.BAI.t .s vy
8                 9                                  1        ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~rrl.vt.n#r. ,of s.vrvvvrd.,,.



