Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16566
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF tJZBEKISiTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loain Number 386 1-lL;)
May 12, 1997
Country Operations I
Country Department III
ELur-ope and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = SotLm (adopted July 1994)
US$1 = 58 Soumn (as of end-March 1997)
Soum per US$
Period    Period Average   End of Period
1995         30.2                 35.5
1996         41.1                 54.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASl RES
Metric Systemn
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Countrv Assistancc Stra)tcgy
C'EM      Countrx Economilc MNciiorandum
('IF     Cost. Insuranicc and Fri-ight (for a traded good)
FSU      Former Sov ict Unlion
FY      Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domcstic Produkct
IBRD      International Bank for Rcconstruction and Developmncit
IMF      International Monctarx Fulid
MOF       Ministrv of F`in.nc.
Pltl     Projcct Implementat ion Unit
PIA      Projcct Implementation Assessment
SOE      Statement of Expc idittircs
US$      UJiitcd Statcs Dollar
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director: Yukon I-luanig, EC3
Division Chief  Kadir T. Yurukoglu, EC3CI
Responsible Staff:  Erika Jorgensen, EC3C I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan Number 3861-UZ)
Contents
Preface ..................................................                                                                    i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ....................                  .............................. 1
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives ......................1............................I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ...................................................                                  3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project    ........................................7
D. Project Sustainability ...................................................8
E. Bank Performance ........................................... .......                                                    8
F. Borrower Performance ..................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ..................................................9
H. Future Operations ..................................................                                                  10
I. Key Lessons Learned ..................................................                                                10
Part II. Statistical Tables ..................................................                                              13
Appendices:
A. Policy Matrix
B. Form 590 (ICR Mission)
C. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
D. Map (IBRD 28006R)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan Number 3861-UZ)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan in the
Republic of Uzbekistan, for which loan 3861-UZ in the amount of US$160 million equivalent was
approved on March 28, 1995 and made effective on April 12, 1995.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1996, the original closing date. Since this was a
rehabilitation loan rather than a structural adjustment loah, the disbursements were not tranched.
Final disbursement took place on December 27, 1995.
The ICR was prepared in the Country Operations Division I of Department III of the
Europe and Central Asia Region. It was prepared by Erika Jorgensen and reviewed by Kadir T.
Yurukoglu, Division Chief of EC3C1, and Marc Blanc, Project Advisor, Country Department III.
The borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and completion
missions in October 1995 and October 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The
borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the program's
preparation and execution and by commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan Number 3861-UZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I.    The Bank's involvement in Uzbekistan prior to this loan had been focused on technical
assistance and policy dialogue supported by economic and sector work. The first loan to
Uzbekistan -- Institution Building Technical Assistance Loan (No. 3650-UZ for US$21 million,
approved October 1993) -- was to support reforms in the short term to build institutions and
capacity over the medium term. (See Project Implementation Assessment, PIA, para. 5.)
Project Objectives
2.    The Rehabilitation Loan was designed to take account of experience with other Bank
rehabilitation loans to FSU countries, and so it concentrated on key issues with significant up
front actions. The program objectives were to: (a) support the Government's structural reform
program; (b) minimize negative impacts of transition on economic activity; and (c) improve
private sector access to foreign exchange. The policy conditions to achieve those objectives
covered actions related to reform of the incentive structurc, enterprise reform, and social safety
net reform. (PIA, para. 4.)
3.    The core policy actions on privatization of medium- and large-scale enterprises through
investment funds and phasing out of state orders were formalized as dated covenants in the Loan
Agreement: The deadline for one of the covenants on the privatization program was extended
from July 31, 1995 to October 31, 1995 in an amendment to the Loan Agreement in August 1995.
(PIA, para. 4.)
4.    The Rehabilitation Loan was a one-tranche operation, but the policy conditions included
timebound performance benchmarks to serve as a medium-term program that would be supported
by further lending operations. An innovative feature was the phasing of disbursement of the
tranche to provide the Bank with the possibility of suspending disbursements if the medium-term
program went seriously off-track. (PIA, para. 6.) At the same time, the loan design created the
largest risk to the program's full implementation -- that momentum would falter and delay
following operations. (PIA, para. 8.)



-11-
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of the broad project objectives of the Rehabilitation Program has been partial
and unsatisfactory overall; but progress on the specific policy conditionality of the loan has been
substantial, although ridden with delays and reversals.  Implementation of a comprehensive
structural reform program has been much slower than agreed with the Bank. In some policy
areas, backsliding was followed eventually by corrective actions, but these were not always
sufficient to fulfill the Government's obligations. The two most important policy areas where
fulfillment of conditions was greatly delayed were the issuance of regulations governing
privatization investment funds and the liberalization of cotton and grain pricing and procurement
under state orders for 1996. However, the disbursement of the loan did help ease foreign
exchange shortages, and imports other than foodstuffs and energy products more than doubled
from 1994 to 1995. Sustained economic decline has been avoided, and GDP expanded slightly in
1996. But private sector access to the foreign exchange market, after improving through 1995
and the first half of 1996 as restrictions were removed and trading volumes grew, has been
severely curtailed by new government restrictions in late 1996. (PIA, para. 10.)
6.    Macroeconomic outcomes improved through 1995 and the first half of 1996 but then went
off-track as the Government reacted to pressures on the current account of the balance of
payments induced by external and domestic shocks. (PIA, para. I1].) The authorities loosened
both monetary and fiscal policy and tightened trade and exchange restrictions. (PIA, para. 12.)
The reform of incentives has been partially achieved. The improved access to foreign exchange
by the private sector achieved during 1994, 1995, and the first half of 1996 has now been
rescinded. (PIA, para. 14.) The phase out of state orders for cotton and grain has suffered many
delays and has required continuous negotiation. (PIA, para. 16.) Reductions in input subsidies
and the gradual increase of farmgate prices did constitute a significant shift in incentives for
agricultural production. (PIA, para. 17.) Despite some progress on trade liberalization, exports
of 4 key commodities, including cotton, remain restricted through licensing requirements. (PIA,
para. 20.) Enterprise reform through privatization of medium- and large-scale enterprises using
investment funds has progressed steadily since regulations were issued in July 1996. The first 300
companies were selected in 1996; and the second auction of 11 companies to the funds took place
in January 1997. (PIA, para. 24.) Reform of the social safety net through reduction of consumer
subsidies and targeting of household transfers as well as pension reform have helped contain
budget costs. (PIA, para. 26.)
7.    Overall, the loan had an unsatisfactory outcome in achieving its objectives, and
sustainability of the program is uncertain. Implementation of the conditionality of the loan has
been satisfactory, although the waning of borrower commitment to an ongoing reform program
has resulted in widespread delays and backtracking so that the broader development objectives of
the program have not been met. The reform program has moved forward but not at an
accelerating pace. National income has suffered only modest declines. A framework for donor
support has been undermined by the Government's abandonment of the IMF program. The
volume of trading in the foreign exchange market remains high, but private sector access has been
severely curtailed since November 1996. The failure to follow this loan with further adjustment
operations greatly undermined its expected impact as the launching point for ongoing and



-iii -
accelerating reform. Nevertheless, performance by both the Bank and the Project Implementation
Unit of the Borrower are judged to have been satisfactory. (PTA, paras. 30-36.)
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    The most important finding of the project implementation experience is that a one-tranche
rehabilitation loan, designed as a compromise between a rehabilitation loan and an adjustment
operation, creates its own risks. If the momentum of reform slackens so that the prospect of
future operations recedes, the Bank is left with little abilit0 to follow through on outstanding
policy conditions. (PIA, para. 39.) Nevertheless, the policv conditions of the program remain
appropriate for the problems they were intended to address  In that sense, the loan was well-
designed. However, the final objectives of the operation were not reached because this loan
should been the first in a series of adjustment operations. with overlapping and reinforcing policy
conditions. (PIA, para. 38.)
9.    Preparation has continued on the Bank's next adjustment operations.  The Enterprise
Reform Loan was negotiated, but Board presentation was postponed from November 1996
because of macroeconomic instability. Second, a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan is under
preparation, building on the analysis and recommendations of a recent economic report. Third,
various operations in agriculture, including fast disbursing policy based loans, are being
considered. (PIA, para. 37.)
10.   One key lesson learned during preparation and implementation of the Rehabilitation Loan
is that continuous support and involvement from the most senior government officials in
Uzbekistan is required for every significant action. (PIA, para. 40.) Another key lesson is that
the slowdown of Uzbekistan's economic reform program has increased budget costs for the Bank.
Large up front investments were made by the Bank in economic analysis, policy dialogue, and
institutional development during the preparation of the loan If the program had moved ahead as
planned, those costs would have allowed for lower cost, follow-up operations. Instead, this
operation cost the Bank about two-thirds more than rehabilitation loans to other Central Asia
borrowers, a premium that exemplifies the generally substantially greater cost of doing business in
Uzbekistan. (PIA, para. 41.)






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Loan Number 3861-UZ)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
1.    The overall cumulative decline in Uzbekistan's real GDP during 1992 to 1994 was significantly
less than in other Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries -- around 14 percent compared with an FSU
average of 40 percent. Enhanced reliance on Uzbekistan's natural resources (oil and gas, and agriculture)
and trade diversification (especially of cotton exports) helped cushion the effects of a large drop in
industrial output.  However, macroeconomic imbalances worsened through 1993 as a result of the
Government's policy of subsidization of consumption and production. Inflation soared, the fiscal deficit
widened; and the need for balance of payments support, because of the economic disruption resulting from
the breakdown of the payments system and of trade within the FS U. became clear. The Government began
to consider economic reform.
2.     During 1994. the Government set out reform objectives, including privatization, establishment of
property rights, trade liberalization, currency convertibility, and opening of the capital account of the
balance of payments. A national currency, the soum, was introduced in Julv 1994 (to replace the interim
currency introduced in November 1993). The Government eliminated all direct consumer subsidies,
significantly reduced indirect subsidies (except public transport and public utility rates, which are still
administratively fixed), and began freeing energy prices. It also considerably tightened fiscal policy by
eliminating budgetary transfers to enterprises and by further curtailing direct consumer subsidies, thereby
reducing the consolidated budget deficit for 1994 to 6.1 percent of GDP. The Bank identified the
Rehabilitation Loan in support of the Government's reform program in April 1994; and in January 1995,
the IMF began to support the Government's stabilization program through its Systemic Transformation
Facility (for SDR100 million).
3.    The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uzbekistan (March 3, 1995, Report No.
14019-UZ), presented simultaneously with the Rehabilitation Loan to the Bank's Board, laid out a strategy
of graduated response in which the level and composition of Bank lending would be adjusted according to
the pace at which the Government executed its economic reform program. In the high-case scenario, with
strong progress in the reform program, it was expected that the Rehabilitation Loan would be the first in a
series of policy based operations in support of the Government's reform program, focusing especially on
enterprise restructuring and financial sector reform. (CAS. para. 60.)
4.     The Rehabilitation Loan was designed to take account of experience with other Bank rehabilitation
loans to FSU countries, and so it concentrated on key issues with significant up front actions (President's
Report, Rehabilitation Loan to Uzbekistan, March 3, 1995, Report No. P-6525-UZ, para. 50). The
program objectives were to:
(a)    support the Government in the design and implementation of its structural reform program,



Republic of IJzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 2
(b)    ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance critical imports and minimize the negative
impact on the level of economic activity stemming from delay of reform and transition disruption;
and
(c)    deepen the existing foreign exchange market to improN e private sector access.
The policy conditions to achieve those objectives, as specified in the policy matrix in the President's Report
(Annex 2) and as shown in Part HI, Table 5, and in Appendix A, covered actions related to reform of the
incentive structure (phase out of state orders, trade and foreign exchange liberalization, elimination of
subsidies, and strengthening of antimonopoly policy), enterprise reform (privatization with broad
participation, and improved governance of state-owvned enterprises) and social safety net reform (pension
reform). The core policy actions, formalized as dated covenants in the Loan Agreement (April 5, 1995),
were: (i) designing and implementing a privatization program for medium- and large-scale enterprises
using investment funds. and (ii) phase out of state orders for the 1995 and 1996 crops and increasing
procurement prices for the 1995 crop. The deadline for one of the covenants on the privatization program
was extended from July 3 1, 1995 to October 3 1, 1995 in an amendment to the Loan Agreement in August
1995.
5.     The Bank's involvement in Uzbekistan prior to this loan had been focused on technical assistance
and policy dialogue supported by economic and sector work The first loan to Uzbekistan -- Institution
Building Technical Assistance Loan (No. 3650-UZ for US$21 million, approved October 1993) -- was to
support the Government in formulating and implementing reforms in the short-term, and in building
institutions and capacity to implement and sustain reforms over the medium-term. The first Country
Economic Memorandum (1993) and two economic reports. 'Subsidies and Transfers" (June 1994) and
' Adjusting Social Protection" (December 1994) had provided the basis for advice to the Government.
6.     The Rehabilitation Loan was a one-tranche operation, but the policy conditions included time
bound performance benchmarks that extended beyond the expected disbursement period.  These
benchmarks were expected to serve as a continuous evaluation instrument to be used in macroeconomic and
sectoral dialogue and as a medium-term program that wnould be supported by the Bank's further lending
operations.  (President's Report, para. 51.)  An innovatixe feature of this loan was the phasing of
disbursement of the tranche by setting a monthly maximum  for withdrawal applications. The extended
disbursement period was meant to provide the Bank with the possibility of suspending disbursements if the
medium-term program went seriously off-track.
7.     Successful implementation of the Rehabilitation Program was important to lay the foundation for
the Bank's strategy in Uzbekistan for FY96 to FY98, as described in the accompanying CAS document.
Specifically, the Rehabilitation Loan was designed to help the Government prepare and begin to implement
its structural reform program, which could then be supported by follow-on adjustment operations. The
objectives of the program and the policy conditions as described in the President's Report were specific, the
core actions were emphasized through the use of dated loan covenants, and clarification was provided in the
Minutes of Negotiations.
8.     The most risky aspects of the program design were those areas of action that were meant to be
medium-term monitorable indicators, and which therefore would likely require the support of other
operations, as would the two areas that involved the most complexity -- phase out of state orders and a new
privatization program. These were also the two areas of action chosen for loan covenants. But while the
program considered as a whole was demanding, it was designed to ensure forward momentum along the
path of transition and reform. At the same time, this design also created the largest risk to the program's



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 3
full implementation -- that momentum would falter and delay following operations. From minutes of
meetings discussing the design of the loan, it appears that this was a recognized risk when the loan was
prepared, although it was not stated explicitly in the President's Report.
9.     At the time of loan approval, the policy conditions were ambitious but realistic, with the one-
tranche loan intended to provide support mainly for the policv reforms taken before effectiveness, and
medium-term actions included in the policy matrix to generate continuity to the next adjustment operation.
At the time of approval of the loan, the IMF was supporting the Government's stabilization program
through its Systemic Transformation Facility, and discussions had begun on a possible stand-by
arrangement. The Government's Letter of Development Policv in the President's Report included the
policy actions supported by the Rehabilitation Loan within a broader and longer program of reform.
Moreover, the Government had taken many significant policy steps before Board presentation of the loan,
which the Bank considered to be supported by the loan, and almost half of the actions supported by dated
covenants in the Loan Agreement had been completed bv the time of negotiations in February 1995:
(a)    Reform of the incentive structure. By end-1994. most industrial state orders and state orders for
all agricultural commodities except cotton and grain were eliminated. The Government had
reduced state orders for the 1994 cotton crop and for the 1995 cotton and grain crops and
increased procurement prices. Progress had been made in liberalizing the external trade regime, by
removing the tax on foreign exchange proceeds and reducing export licensing to cover only 11
commodities. A weeklv auction mechanism for foreign exchange was established in 1994, and the
exchange rate was unified. Direct food subsidies were removed, and full pass through on industrial
tariffs for gas, electricity, and heat was implemented.
(b)    Enterprise reform.  Privatization of small-scale enterprises, retail shops. trade and service
establishments, and housing was mostly completed by end-1994, although mainly through direct
transfer or sale to staff. Governance of state-owned enterprises was improved: (i) ownership,
property, and management rights were clarified, with the transformation of several hundred
medium and large state enterprises into open joint stock companies; and (ii) greater financial
discipline was imposed through improved reporting of arrears and the identification of the 30
largest loss makers in 1994-95.
(c)    Social safety net reform. The Government began shifting towards a more targeted system of social
protection in 1994, especially for pensions.  A draft resolution set out a revised system for
adjusting pension benefits.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
10.    Achievement of the broad project objectives of the Rehabilitation Program (para. 4 above) has
been partial and unsatisfactory overall; but progress on the specific policy conditionality of the loan has
been substantial, although ridden with delays and reversals. Implementation of a comprehensive structural
reform program has been much slower than agreed with the Bank. In some policy areas, backsliding was
followed eventually by corrective actions, but these were not always sufficient to fulfill the Government's
obligations under the Rehabilitation Program. The two most important policy areas where fulfillment of
conditions was greatly delayed were the issuance of regulations governing privatization investment funds
and the liberalization of cotton and grain pricing and procurement under state orders for 1996.' However,
Of the 16 conditions set out in the policy matrix of the President's Report as medium-term actions (but not tranche release
conditions, since this was a one-tranche operation), 11 are almost completed, although some policy objectives have been



Republic ol Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 4
the disbursement of the loan did help ease foreign exchange shortages, and imports other than foodstuffs
and energy products more than doubled from 1994 to 1995. Sustained economic decline has been avoided,
and GDP expanded slightly in 1996. But private sector access to the foreign exchange market, after
improving through 1995 and the first half of 1996 as restrictions were removed and trading volumes grew,
has been severely curtailed by new government restrictions in late 1996. Table I presents the available
quantitative indicators of the program's impact so far.
11.    Macroeconomic Outcomes. Macroeconomic performance improved through 1995 and the first half
of 1996 but then went off-track. The IMF approved a fifteen-month stand-by arrangement of SDR124.7
million in December 1995, a program designed to support stabilization policies to keep inflation to 34
percent or less in 1996 and confine the decline in GDP to around I percent. The Central Bank was to
maintain a positive real refinance rate and increase the proportion of interbank credit intermediated through
the credit auction mechanism; and the Government was to keep the fiscal deficit to about 4 percent of GDP.
Structural benchmarks were designed to reinforce the Rehabilitation Loan and bridge to the next planned
Bank adjustment loan on enterprise reformn. The first review of the stand-by was completed in June 1996
and, until the third quarter of 1996, Uzbekistan largely met the stabilization objectives of the program.
12.    GDP declined 0.9 percent in 1995, a better performrance than had been expected. Consumer price
increases moderated from their extreme levels in 1994 to average 305 percent for 1995, slowed by fiscal
and monetary tightening in the second half of the year. The fiscal deficit in 1995 dropped to 4.1 percent.
However, the moderately successful stabilization of 1995 began to dissipate halfway through 1996 as the
Government reacted to pressures on the current account of the balance of payments induced by a drop in
world cotton prices, a lower than expected wheat harvest, and declining forecasts of the cotton crop. The
authorities loosened both monetary' and fiscal poliev and tightened trade and exchange restrictions. GDP
still expanded by 1.6 percent for the year, but annual inflation for 1996 registered at 54 percent, above the
IMF target, because of large injections of credit into the economy in the fourth quarter. The small surplus
in the budget that had emerged in the first quarter of 1996 was overwhelmed by unbudgeted expenditures in
the last quarter for onlending to agriculture and clearance of pension arrears. For the full year of 1996, the
budget deficit was about 7 percent of GDP, well above the IMF program target. (See Table 2.)
13.    The auction determined official exchange rate depreciated by 40 percent in 1995, pushing the real
exchange rate to about 85 percent above its September 1994 level. During 1996, the nominal exchange
rate remained relatively stable through the first three quarters of 1996 and then depreciated by 38 percent in
the fourth quarter, leaving the year end real exchange rate at approximately the level at which it started the
year. The external current account, close to balanced in 1995, loomed to a deficit of 7.9 percent of GDP in
1996, responding to the deterioration in terms of trade but also the temporary liberalization of the foreign
currency market that allowed significantly higher imports in 1995 and the first three quarters of 1996.
Gross international reserves exceeded six months of imports in 1995 and continued to cover almost five
months of imports at the close of 1996, a 12 percent increase from the end of the third quarter of 1996
which was achieved through the rationing of foreign exchange and use of preferential exchange rates. As a
result of these policy shifts, the IMF stand-by is expected to lapse in March 1997 without the last two
disbursements having become available, and the Bank's next planned adjustment operation, the Enterprise
Reform Loan, cannot be presented to the Board.
14.    Reform of Incentives. The overriding goal of the Rehabilitation Program was to strengthen the
development of Uzbekistan's incipient foreign exchange market and improve access to foreign exchange
pursued through slightly different actions than originally envisioned. Another 4 conditions (on procurement; 1 997 state
orders, export licensing; and the trucking sector) are on their way to being met. On only one medium-term policy
condition -- the reform of agricultural taxation -- is there little sign of action.



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 5
by the private sector. The substantial progress towards this goal achieved during 1994, 1995, and the first
half of 1996 has now been rescinded. After a new national currency, the soum, was introduced in July
1994, the Central Bank restricted access to foreign exchange through licensing and new currency
restrictions, leading to a wide disparity between official and unofficial exchange rates; but by October
1994, a single unified exchange rate system was in place. Enterprise access to foreign exchange through a
system of twice weekly interbank foreign exchange auctions was introduced in the beginning of 1995.
These auctions, which were initially heavily controlled through a "patent" or license system, were
liberalized. Restrictions on access by individuals to buy foreign exchange were abolished in July 1995; and
the surrender requirement for export earnings and the license system for access to the foreign exchange
auctions by enterprises were liberalized in October 1995. In response, the weekly volume of foreign
exchange traded increased significantly, from about $1 million per week when the auction was introduced
in April 1994, to $10 million per week by January 1995, $30 million by June 1995, and almost $70 million
each week by November 1996. (See Table 1.)
15.    The recent restrictions on the foreign exchange market have severely hampered access but have not
dampened demand for foreign exchange at the official rate, and so sales of dollars at the auctions have
remained robust in early 1997. However, the interbank auction has been limited to only once a week
(rather than thrice weekly as of October 1996 and daily as of December 1996 to which the Government
committed under the IMF stand-by). In addition, the spread to the rate charged by commercial banks for
cash at exchange bureaus widened in October but then narrowed again. The premium to the curb market
rate, however, rose sharply from October through November, and has remained at over 100 percent,
indicating the severe disequilibrium induced by the recent restrictions on foreign exchange. (See Table 1.)
16.    The phase out of state orders for cotton and grain, a policy area where the Bank acquiesced to the
Government's desire for gradualism, nevertheless has suffered many delays and has required continuous
negotiation. The required reductions in state orders and increased prices for 1995 cotton and grain were
announced by Presidential Decree in January and February 1995, before Board presentation in March
1995. State orders covered 60 percent of the 1995 cotton crop at 50 percent of world prices, and 50
percent of the 1995 grain crop at 50 percent of world prices. (See Table 1.) In September 1995, the Bank
discovered that the grain pnrce had been set at only 40 percent of the benchmark world price agreed at
negotiations (i.e., the US Gulf port price for wheat plus transportation costs from southern Kazakstan), but
the Government argued that Uzbekistan's pattern of grain imports had shifted (and so the lower CIF price
for imports from Kazakstan was the appropriate import parity price). Thus, it only becarne clear ex post
that the Government did not meet its commitment of a 1995 gram price of 50 percent of the world price
(although it was in compliance at the time of Board presentation).
17.   In 1995, wheat procurement prices were kept low by the Governnent to try to contain inflationary
pressures, despite the conflicting aim of achieving self sufficiency. Rice and maize were removed from
state orders in 1995, and their liberalized wholesale prices increased to match approximately border price
equivalents.  Subsidies of agricultural inputs were reduced so that both fertilizers and agricultural
chemicals were priced at world equivalents (and the removal of these large subsidies occurred with
admirable speed). Farmers also pay world prices for equipment and machinery, imported mainly from
Russia. Although the agricultural sector does continue to receive some implicit subsidies in the form of tax
exemptions and low water charges, these developments in agricultural policy together constituted a
significant shift in incentives for production, away from input subsidies and towards higher output prices at
the farmgate.
18.    An agreement on quotas for 1996 cotton and grain was finally reached in March 1996, after
extended discussions. (The Government had issued orders and prices inconsistent with its agreements with



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 6
the Bank and the IMF in January.) The procurement levels were set at 40 and 25 percent of the cotton and
grain crops, respectively. In April 1996, the Bank agreed to the Government's proposal of $130 per ton as
a minimum purchase price for grain for the 1996 crop, which by alternative calculations could be
considered to be 75 percent of world price. The cotton price was set in local currency terms in August
1996; and at August exchange rates, it converted to over 60 percent of the world price. However, the
subsequent 50 percent depreciation of the soum to the end of 1996, when cotton farmers could expect to be
paid, reduced the cotton price to about 40 percent of world price. State orders for 1997 have not yet been
announced, and there are signals that the Government will not honor its commitment to eliminate state
procurement of grains and reduce further state procurement of cotton.
19.    For goods other than cotton and wheat, work is ongoing to replace the former system of state
orders with a system of state procurement by competitive tender. The Bank has been providing advice, and
an Institutional Development Fund grant of $160,000 to assist in the development of public procurement
legislation and training of personnel in procurement procedures was approved in October 1996.
20.    Despite some progress on trade liberalization, exports of 4 key commodities, including cotton,
remain restricted through licensing requirements. The Government took several steps in 1995 and 1996 to
liberalize trade. It reduced the number of items subject to export licensing from 11 to 4 (cotton, oil, ferrous
metals, nonferrous metals), and pledged to eliminate licensing for all goods except cotton, by January 1,
1997 (instead of initiating auctions of export licenses for oil and ferrous and nonferrous metals, as
committed under the program). Export licensing for cotton had been placed under simplified procedures by
mid-I1995 but not sufficiently to render them automatic as specified in the policy matrix of the President's
Report. New import and export tariffs set in October 1995 created high effective protection for some
commodities, but the Government began rationalizing the tariff system with a consolidation and reduction
of rates on April 1, 1996. The maximum export tax rate and the number of products subject to export
duties were also reduced. Rough calculations of average tariffs show reasonable declines over the period.
(See Table 1.)
21.    The other area of action related to trade was the development of an agricultural taxation system to
replace lost revenues as state orders and export taxes were reduced, particularly for cotton. No actions
have yet been taken by the Government. The Bank has provided policy advice, with tvs o missions and two
policy notes to the Government (in late 1995 and early 1996).
22.    The elimination of subsidies is back on-track after delays.  The price differential between
household and industrial energy prices was reduced in April 1996 and further in December 1996 to meet
the levels agreed under the Rehabilitation Program, a 12-month delay.2 However, the Government
continued to cover 80 percent of the costs of heating and hot water in 1995, accounting for most of the 4
percent of GDP spent on subsidies from the budget. and prices for heating, hot water, and housing are not
adjusted on the basis on full cost recovery.
23.    The strengthening of antimonopoly policy was expected to be supported by the Enterprise Reform
Loan. A new antimonopoly law, which redefines monopolies as only those companies with a market share
greater than 65 percent, was passed in December 1996, 18 months late; and an independent antimonopoly
2 In April 1996, the differential for electricity prices was reduced by 33 percent and that for gas by 35 percent. In December
1996, the differential for electricity was reduced by an additional 85 percent and for gas by 41 percent.



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 7
authority has been set up. Demonopolization has progressed in the wholesale trade sector;3 but a
competitive commercial trucking sector, crucial for private sector development, is not yet a reality. The
Government has promised to sell its shares in trucking companies through the new mass privatization
program, auction 20 percent of the cargo truck fleet, and remove restrictions on privatized gas stations.
24.    Enterprise Reform. Privatization is an area of slow but steady success. About 95 percent of the
10,400 small-scale enterprises in the Republican level privatization prograrn had been privatized, and 96
percent of housing units have been privatized. Almost all medium and large state enterprises have been
transformed into open joint stock companies; and of the 1,600 medium- and large-scale enterprises slated
for privatization, about 1,000 have had some shares sold to managers and employees. The other 600 are to
be privatized through sales of shares to the public through the Privatization Investment Funds, a mass
privatization program intended for support by the Enterprise Reform Loan. Regulations for this mass
privatization scheme were to have been issued by July 31, 1995. a deadline extended by the Bank to
October 31, 1995. The regulations were issued in July 1996, 12 months late; but progress since then has
been steady. The first 300 companies were selected in 1996. and the second auction of 11 companies to the
funds took place in January 1997.
25.    The governance of SOEs has improved, especiallv the strengthening of financial discipline. After
some initial difficulties the Credit Bureau, set up in the Central Bank to collect data on enterprise arrears,
has made progress. Since November 1995, 30 of the SOEs with the highest arrears have been monitored
closely, and the Government has announced its intention to either privatize or liquidate them. The further
accumulation of enterprise arrears has been discouraged through two Presidential Decrees in May 1995
and January 1996.
26.    Reform of the Social Safety Net. The curtailing and targeting of consumer subsidies and the
establishment of unemplovment benefits and family allowances greatly improved targeting and further
reduced the fiscal burden of the social safety net, as has pension reform. Although the Parliament has not
vet enacted the revised scheme of pension adjustment into law, costs have been contained, which is an
important achievement, given how large Uzbekistan's pension expenditures have been relative to its
demographic structure and level of GDP. Only about 6 percent of the population is over the age of 60, yet
pension benefits had been near 10 percent of GDP, partly because another 6 percent of the population
below age 60 were also collecting pensions and because the average pension was three times the minimum
wage. The structure of pensions was flattened by a Presidential Decree in August 1995 (which increased
the minimum pension by more than the average). As a result, pension payments fell dramatically, from
over 11 percent of GDP in 1993 to 6 percent in 1995. (See Table I.)
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
27.    Implementation of the Rehabilitation Program has encountered moderate problems. Generally
acceptable compliance with the specific policy conditions has been marred by delays and faltering
commitment. The overall timetable for this loan, as laid out in December 1994 in the Initiating
Memorandum, was followed successfully. Disbursement was distributed over a number of months (as
described in para. 6); with US$32 million allowed in retroactiRe financing for policy actions completed
prior to loan effectiveness, then US$16 million allowed for each of April, May, and June 1995; and then
3The wholesale trade of consumption goods was demonopolized in 1995: the rural wholesale trade is now wholly private, and
the Government has promised to sell its remaining shares in urban wholesale companies. But wholesale trade in raw
materials and intermediate inputs remains dominated by a single association.



Republic of Uzbekistan: linplementation Completion Report 8
US$20 million allowed per month for the remaining funds. The loan disbursed on schedule, with the final
money released in December 1995.
28.    A series of economic shocks undermined the Government's commitment to its reform program.
World cotton prices fell by 15 percent in 1996, pushing down the country's terms of trade by 6 percent.
The wheat harvest in May 1996 came in below target. Sales of reserves through the official currency
auctions were growing as imports increased. Together, these events fed the Government's anxiety over the
level of foreign reserves, as well as anxiety over letting markets work. The Government had always
expressed concern over exposing the key commodities of cotton and wheat to world commodity price
fluctuations; and these developments confirmed the fears of instability induced by factors outside
government control.
29.    From the Bank's perspective, however, while these factors external to government control had a
partial negative impact on the program, it was the factors under the control of the Government, i.e., its
commitment to carry through on the reform program that limited the significant achievements of the loan to
the set of policy reforms completed before Board presentation (and the smaller set completed afterwards),
rather than allowing it to become a launching pad for an ongoing reform program. In particular, the
Government's desire to deviate from the detailed interpretation of conditions laid out in the Minutes of
Negotiations regarding minimum prices to be set for state orders created repeated difficulties during
supervision.
D. Project Sustainability
30.    The program is likely to maintain a number of its achievements, especially those that are difficult
to reverse, but overall sustainability is uncertain. Those areas where achievements are least likely to be
undenrined are price liberalization and the elimination of consumer and enterprise subsidies;
corporatization and privatization of enterprises; improved financial discipline of state enterprises;
elimination of state orders on all commodities except cotton and grain, and reduction of input subsidies in
agriculture. These are areas xvhere the Government has relinquished control and where the reestablishment
of government intervention would likely have a high budgetary cost.
31.    The Bank remains confident that despite this period of hesitation, the Government will return
eventually to a faster paced, market-oriented reform path. But in the absence of movement towards further
reforms in the short-run, which the Bank had intended to support with follow on projects, the benefits of
transition will not begin to be felt. Also, extended delays of privatization and liberalization of the economy
will damage nascent markets. Expectations may be permanently affected, rendering the next bout of
stabilization more difficult. especially if financial disintermediation and currency substitution by the
populace rise significantly.  Higher real interest rates and greater depreciation would then become
necessary (and so a larger contraction of real incomes) before macroeconomic equilibrium can be
reestablished.
E. Bank Performance
32.    The preparation of the Rehabilitation Program involved lengthy technical collaboration. Bank staff
and consultants spent 150 weeks to bring the loan to appraisal, and missions to Uzbekistan included
specialists in economics, privatization, enterprise reform, the financial sector, the energy sector, trade, and
the legal framework . As mentioned in para. 5 above, the formulation of the program was preceded by
economic and sector work in the first, comprehensive CEM and economic reports on subsidies and on
social protection. The Bank was closely coordinated with the IMF's activities in the country.



Republic ot Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 9
33.    The Bank was highly responsive to borrower requests for additional technical assistance and
analysis of issues related to the program. For example, in August 1995, the Bank provided key technical
assistance to the Government to address concerns about revenue losses and uncertain impact on producer
incentives of phasing out state orders.  A mission initiated the design of an alternative scheme of
agricultural taxation, leaving a report with the Government in October 1995. Another mission visited in
early 1996 to provide advice on trade policy. Reports were sent to the Government on both trade policy
and on reform of cotton taxation in early 1996. The Bank is also providing significant assistance with the
development of standard state procurement legislation and procedures through an Institutional Development
Grant approved in October 1996.
34.    Appraisal of the loan was delayed from mid-1994 until January 1995 because of the considerable
slippage by the Government in nearly every area of its reform program (which wvas also to be supported by
the IMF's Structural Transformation Facility) and the need for more agreement on the details of the
structural reforms to be supported by the loan.4 Later, supervision was made difficult bv the loan's single
tranche structure, and delays of policy implementation were frequent. Missions supervised the program in
May. August, and September 1995. and in March 1996; and 59 staff weeks xvere used to trv to sustain
momentum in the program. The Bank continues to monitor the measures agreed under this program, but in
the absence of following operations and especially with the unvwinding of both stabilization and structural
reforms in late 1996. policy dialogue lacks the solid foundation it needs to be effective.
F. Borrower Performance
35.    The overall implementation of the program wvas the responsibility of the Project Implementation
Unit established as part of the Department for the Coordtnation of External Economic Activitv under the
Institution Building/Technical Assistance Loan. This unit was well-staffed and operated effectively. The
delays in meeting policy conditionality arose from wavering commitment on the part of the most senior
government officials, not from a lack of coordination or institutional weaknesses.
G. Assessment of Outcome
36.    Overall, the loan had an unsatisfactory outcome in achieving its objectives. Implementation of the
conditionality of the loan has been satisfactory. although the waning of borrower commitment to an
ongoing reform program has resulted in widespread delays and backtracking so that the broader
development objectives of the program have not been met. The development impact of the program. as
described in the discussion of the loan's benefits in the President's Report (para. 72), was expected to be
the acceleration of implementation of a comprehensive structural reform program, avoidance of sustained
economic decline; provision of a framework for donor support; deepening of the foreign exchange market;
and increased access to the foreign exchange market for the private sector, Briefly, the reform program has
moved forvard but not at an accelerating pace. National income has suffered only modest declines. A
framework for donor support has been undermined by the Gov ernument's abandonment of the IMF program.
The volume of trading in the foreign exchange market remains high, but private sector access has been
severely curtailed since November 1996. The failure to follow this loan with further adjustment operations
greatly undermined its expected impact as the launching point for ongoing and accelerating reform.
4 The Bank determined that progress towards agreement with the Government was required on a privatization blueprinit,
methods for imposing financial discipline on state enterprises, increasing the procurement price on state orders for cotton
and accelerating further reductions of state orders, and reduction of pension payments. By December 1994, the Bank
assented to the Govermment's view that the privatization program should not include vouchers, but agreement still had
not been reached on automatic granting of cotton export licenses and a methodology for changing pension indexation to
reduce the budget burden. These unsettled issues were taken up during appraisal



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 10
H. Future Operations
37.    Despite the hiatus in reform and the deterioration of macroeconomic conditions since late 1996, the
Bank has continued some preparation of the next adjustment operations. The Enterprise Reform Loan was
negotiated, but Board presentation was postponed from November 1996 because of macroeconomic
instability. However, privatization is progressing; and the Bank is providing extensive technical assistance
in cooperation with other donors. Second, a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan is under preparation,5
building on the analysis and recommendations of the recent economic report, "Uzbekistan:  Creating
Financial Markets: A Review of the Financial Sector" (February 1997, Report No. 15430-UZ). Third,
various operations in agriculture, including fast disbursing policy based loans, are being considered, and a
policy framework for the sector is under discussion with the Government.
I. Key Lessons Learned
38.    The policy conditions of the program remain appropriate for the problems they were intended to
address. In that sense, the loan was well-designed. However, the final objectives of the operation were not
reached because this loan should been the first in a series of adjustment operations, with overlapping and
reinforcing policy conditions.
39.    The most important finding of the project implementation experience is that a one-tranche
rehabilitation loan, designed as a compromise between a rehabilitation loan and an adjustment operation,
creates its own risks. If the momentum of reform slackens so that the prospect of future operations
recedes, the Bank is left with little ability to follow through on outstanding policy conditions.
40.    During preparation and implementation of the Rehabilitation Loan, it also became apparent that
continuous support and involvement from the most senior government officials in Uzbekistan is required for
every significant action.
41.    An important side effect of the slowdown of Uzbekistan's economic reform program has been
increased budget costs for the Bank in completing this loan, because large up front investments were made
by the Bank in economic analysis, policy dialogue, and institutional development. If the program had
moved ahead as planned, those costs would have allowed for lower cost, follow-up operations. This
operation cost the Bank over $680,000 from identification to completion report, which was about two-
thirds more costly than other Bank rehabilitation loans to Central Asia borrowers.  This premium
exemplifies the generally substantially greater cost of doing business in Uzbekistan compared to the Bank's
other Central Asian clients.
5 The Govemrnent signed a Project Preparation Facility Agreement in January 1997.



Republic of lJzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 11
Table 1: Indicators of Progress with Respect to Loan Objectives
1992      1993       1994       1995       1996
I. Progress on Structural Reform Program
Cotton under state orders (% output)         100         80         67         60        40
Grain under state orders (% output)          100         75         60         50        25
State price for cotton (% of world price)      -          -         14         50        41
State price for grain (% of world price)       -          -         28        40         75
Budgetary subsidies (% of GDP)              21.0       25.8        2.7        3.9        4.8
Pension payments (% of GDP)                   9.7       11.4         -        6.0         -
Privatized enterprises (% of total)
- small enterprises                         0         64         80         96
- medium and large enterprises              0         16         33         39         -
Average unweighted tariffs (%)
- imports                                   0          0          0         18         11
- exports                                   0          0          0         32         26
II. Ease Foreign Exchange Shortages and Minimize Impact on Economic Activity
Non-food non-energy imports (US$ mln.)       628      1,973      1,191      2,851      3,271
Total imports (US$ min.)                    1,660     3,255      2,727      3,597      4,712
Current account balance (US$ mln.)          -238       -429        118       -50      -1,075
Reserves (US$ mln.)                          530      1,021      1,330      1,868      1,901
GDP (% change)                              -11.1      -2 3       -4.2       -0.9        1.6
- industry                                 -        -4 2       -6.6      -5.9        3.4
- agriculture                              -         15        -3.4       2.3      -18.6
III. Deepen Existing Foreign Exchange Market to Improve Private Sector Access
Frequency of auctions (per week)                          0          1          2         2
Weekly sales of foreign exchange (US$ mln.)               0          5         34        61
Exchange bureau premium (% over auction)                  -          -         20        11
Curb market premium (% over auction)                      6         39        49         92
Note: Exchange bureau and curb market premia are based on end-of-period rates.
Sources: Government of Uzbekistan, IMF, and staff estimates.



Republic of lJzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 12
Table 2: Selected Economic Indicators
1992       1993       1994      1995       1996
1. Economic Activit
GDP (% change)                          -11.1       -2.3       -4.2       -0.9        1.6
II. Prices and Money
Consumer prices (% change)               645        534       1568        305         54
Broad money (% change)                      ..        ..       680         158        99
Exchange rate (sumlUS$, e.o.p.)            ..        1.3       25.0       35.5       55.0
111. Government Finances (% of GDP)
Total revenues                           31.3       36.0       29.2       34.6       32.2
Total expenditures                       43.4       3X.8       33.3       37.6       35.6
Budget balance                          -12.1      -17.6       -4.1       -3.5       -8.8
IV. Balance of Payments
Exports (US$ mln.)                      1424       2877       2940       3805       3781
Imports (US$ mln.)                      1660       3255      2727       3597       4711
Current account balance (US$ mln.)      -238       -429        118        -50      -1075
Current account balance (% of GDP)     -11.8       -7.8        2.1       -0.5       -7.9
External debt stock (US$ mlii.)           33        820        793       1499       1964
Debt service ratio (% of exports)         ..        2.5       10.5       16.8       17.9
Reserves (months of imports)             3.8        3.8        5.7        6.2        4.8
Note:  Consumer price inflation is period average.
Sources: Governtnent of Uzbekistan, IMF. and staff estimates.



Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  * Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  * Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  * Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 1(0: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: * Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
* Standard Tables 6, 7 and 9 are not included because they are not
applicable to this Rehabilitation Loan.  Table 11 is not included
because there have been no instances of noncompliance with
Operational Manual Statements.



Republic of Uzbekistan: Inplementation Completion Report 14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro Policies                       El              /               E3                El
Sector Policies                     El               /               El                El
Financial Objectives                 /              El                l                E
Institutional Development           E                                E                 El
Physical Objectives                  ElE                             E                 /
Poverty Reduction                                   E                E O
Gender Issues                        EE                              El                /
Other Social Objectives             /               El               El 
Environmental Objectives                            E                El                I /
Public Sector Management             E              a                0                 E
Private Sector Development            l             El              I/                 El
Other (specify)                      El             E                El                I
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
O                        ElO                       /
Highly
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactorv             Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                     V                        E                         E
Preparation Assistance              I                       O                         E
Appraisal                                                   El                        E
Supervision                        E                        /                         E
Highly
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                         El                      I                         O
Implementation                      El                      I                         l
Covenant Compliance                 n                       /                         E
Operation (if applicable)           El                      E 
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactorv     Satisfactory   Unsatisfactorv    Unsatisfactory
l              El              I/                 El



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                      Purpose                     Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding operations:
Institution Building/TA    Provide technical assistance on the legal  FY94     Under
framework, privatization, financial sector             implementation
development, social protection, and
energy and telecommunications strategies.
Following operations:
Cotton Subsector        Begin modernization of the cotton sector.  FY96        Under
Improvement                                                                    implementation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                     Date Planned              Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  April 1994               April 1994
Preparation                                June 1994                 April 1994
Appraisal                                  January 1995              January 1995
Negotiations                               February 1995             February 1995
Letter of Development Policy               February 1995             February 1995
Board Presentation                         March 1995                March 1995
Signing                                      n.a.                    April 1995
Effectiveness                              May 1995                  April 1995
Project Completion                         December 1995             December 1995
Loan Closing                               June 1996                 June 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY95                         FY96
Appraisal Estimate                               80                           80
Actual                                           64                           96
Actual as % of Estimate                          80                           120
Date of Final Disbursement                                  Dec. 27, 1995



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
The Matrix of Policy Conditions, Annex 2 of the President's Report, calledfor actions in three policy areas
under the Rehabilitation Program.
A. Reform of the Incentive Structure, in the areas of:
(i) state orders through phasing out of the state order system; (ii) trade through a diminished role of
centralized exports and imports, and through improved access to, and allocation of, foreign exchange; (iii)
subsidies through elimination of subsidies that have distortionary effects on the incentive structure; and (iv)
antimonopoly policy that promotes competititon in wholesale and retail trade and related storage and transport
services, and that improves control over abuse of monopoly power.
B. Enterprise Reform, in the areas of:
(i) privatization through development of a privatization program aimed at broad participation, and through
removal of privatization constraints in order to promote equity and efficiency; and (ii) governance of state-
owned enterprises (SOEs) through clarified ownership, property and management rights of SOEs, separation
of SOEs' ownership and management functions, establishment of commercial objectives and management
autonomy with accountability for meeting commercial objectives, and through imposition of discipline on the
use and flow of financial resources to enterprises, particularly the largest loss makers
C. Reform of the Social Safety Net, in the area of:
pensions through rationalizing the current pension structure to contain costs and ensure adequacy; and
through strengthened enforcement of payroll tax collection.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                               Actual
(US$ millions)                             (US$ millions)
Item               Local Costs   Foreign Costs     Total       Local Costs   Foreign Costs     Total
Imports                 0             160           160            0              160           160
Total                   0             160           160            0              160           160
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                               Actual
(US$ millions)                             (US$ millions)
Item               Local Costs   Foreign Costs     Total       Local Costs   Foreign Costs     Total
IBRD/lDA              0              160           160             0             160           160
Total                 0              160           160             0             160           160



Republic of I Jzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Ayreement  Section  Covenant  Present    Original          Revised                Description of Covenant                Commelnts
Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fultilinent
Date         Date
]           3).03    03          C                                    The B3orrower slhall ensture that all local     In compliance
currencv transactionis related to the use of the
Loan shall be made at the Market Exchanige
Rate
2           3.04 (a) 05          C                                     'I'he Borrower shall mainitain a PIIJ within the    In compliance
Departmcnit of Coordination ot'Extenial
Economic Activitv of the 13orrower's Cabinet ot
Ministers. to be headed at all times by a
coordinator with qualiticationis, tenns of'
reference and experience satisfactory to the
Bank assisted by qualilied staff in adequate
numbers acceptable to the Banik
3           33.05     13         C         0)5/31/95                   D)esigin approve and anlounce detailed,        hI complialnce
(a)(i)                                                   timebound implementation arrangements
acceptable to the Bank for the mass privatization
schelne uiing investmenit funids, including the
sale of not less thani 3W0% of the shares of the
privatize.l enterprises to investmenit ftunds at
their face value
4           3.t)5     13         CD        07/31/97       10/31/95     Adopt reyulations satisf'actory to the Bank tor    In complianlce
(a)(ii)                                                   establishineiit and operation of iivestmeiit    but eight
iunds, in. Iding the sale of such ftinds to enable  months
wide public participatioin.                     delayed
beyond revised
fullillinent
date.
5           3.06      13         CP        08/31/95                   Adopt measures acceptable to the Bank for the    Mostly in
implementationi of (i) the reduction in state   compliance
orders for the 1995 cottoii crop to 60% of the  but reduced
1995 output aiid the aninounlcemenit of ftirther  state order tor
reductioni in state orders for the cotton crop by    19996 cotton
0 1/3 1/96 (ii) aii increase in the procurement  crop
price of state orders for the 1995 cotton crop to   annuountced
50(0 of'the internatioiial price detenrined iii a    tlhree montlhs
manner acceptable to the Bank, excluding the    beyond
cost of transportation; (iii) the reduction in state  deadliiie aiid
orders for grain to 50% of productioni in 1995  procuremiienit
and to 2 5%, of productioni in 1 996; and (vi) an    price for 1995
increasc in the procurement price of state orders  graiii mas oiily
for graiii in 1995 to 50% of the intermational  4(0% of
price detenrinied in a maiumer acceptable to the   international
Bank. iiivludiing the cost of transportation.   price.
6           3.07      01         CD        06/30/96                    Furnisl (o the Bank as soon as available, btit in  Ini complialice
(b)(ii)                                                   ain case no later thani f months after the end of  but ninle
ain such n,ear, a certified copy of the report of'   montlhs beyond
Suchi audit by said auditors, of'sulCi scope and in  deadline.
suclh detail as the l3ank shall have reasonably
requeste(d



Republic ol Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 18
Covenanit types:                                                                          Present Status:
I= Accounits/audits                             8. = Indigenous people                   C = covenant complied with
2 = VIinancial perfornance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, revieA, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
berietictaries                               10. = Project implementation not covered by   CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         categories 1-9                         NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funldinig                      11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Managemiielnt aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agenc 12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
0. = lnviromnental covenants                       regulatory/institutionial action
7.  hivoluntary resettlement                     13. = Other
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                         Revised                           Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Weeks           US$               Weeks          US$              Weeks           US$
Preparation to Appraisal'       137          418                 137           419                150           425
Appraisal"'                     32            97                  11            47                12            46
Negotiations through            10            23                  8             15                 6             16
Board Approval1
Stipervisiolln                  72            303                69            207                59            170
Completion                      14            31                  8             29                9*            25
Total                  265           872                234            717               236           682
' As of end-Februarv 1997.
Only actual data for FY94 and only revised and actual data for FY95 are available.



Republic of Uzbekistan: Implementation Completion Report 19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratinz2
Implementation   Development    Types of
Stage of Project   Month/    No. of    Days in   Specialization'          Status         Objectives    Problems3
Cycle           Year    Persons    Field
Througlh Appraisal (1) 10/93       10        14      E, P, R. A, G
(2) 04/94       7         13     E. P, R, O
(3) 06/94      10         15     E. P, F, T
(4)11/94        5         12     E.,P.R.O,S
Appraisal through  01/95           2          7      E. T
Board Approval
Supervision        05/95           4         10      E, R, S, 0               1                1             T
08/95           2         5      T, S                     I                I              T
09/95           1         10     E                        2                2              T
Completion          10/96           1         7      E                        2                3             T
I - Keys to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Keys to Performance Ratings:  3 - Keys to Types of Problems:
A = Agriculturist               I = Minor problems                       F = Financial
E = Economist                   2 = Moderate problems                   T = Technical
F = Finanicial Sector Specialist  3 = Major problems                    M = Managerial
( = Eiiergy Sector Specialist
() = O(ther
P = Privatization Specialist
R = Enterprise Refonn
Specialist
S = Social Safety Net Specialist
T = Trade Specialist



Page 1 of6
UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN - POLICY CONDITIONS
Objectives                 Actions Already                 Fulfilled Before Board                 Medium-Term                       Current Status
Taken                          Presentation                         Actions
A. INCENTIVE
STRUCTURE
1. State Orders          Uzcontractorg has been disantled                                      Establish a sVstem of state        The Bank has been providing advice,
procurement bv competitive tender   anid an IDIF grant of $160,000 to
Phase out state order       bb        habencatdo.of basic g-oods -and services for state  assist in the development of public
sPstem.                  Uzbekbirjtorg has been created to:                                    needs (hospitals, armn, etc.) by   procuement legislation and training
(i) temporarily conduct state                                        April 30, 1995.
April 30, 1995.          ~of personnel in procuremnenti
procurement, and (ii) organize                                                                          procedures was approved in October
wholesale trading markets.                                                                              1996.
State order on cotton for 1994 crop
and on grain for 1995 crop have   Reduction in the state order on    By June 30, 1995 develop a plan, to  The Goverment agreed on a plan
been reduced from 75 to 67 percent.  cotton to 60 percent for the 1995  be agreed with the Bank, to phase    for the phase out of state orders wvith
crop wvas aLnounced on Jan. 19,   out the wedge between procurement  the Bank in 1995, h
State orders (except cotton and   1995 by Presidential Decree.       and X orld pnces for gras  and cotton  have been particularly plagued by
grain) have been eliminated by
Presidential D)ecree from August 22.                                 rectively.
1994 (including meat, poultry and                                    respectivelv.
milk).                            Increase in the procurement prices                                    The 1995 state procurement price for
for cotton remaining under state                                     grain was onlN about 4() percent of
orders to 5( percent ot'Nor1d prices                                 world prices For 1996, the Bank
for the 1995 crop was announced on                                   agreed to $  130 per ton, w Bhich
February 8, 1995 by Presidential                                     constituted 75 percent of world price
Decree.                                                              only by alternative calculations to
those agreed at Negotiations; the
Reduction in the state order on grain                                price setting xvas 3 months late
to 50 percent for the 1995 crop was
announced on Jan.19, 1995 by
Presidential Decree.              Reduce state order on grain to 25  State procurement for grain in 1996
Increase in the procurement price for percent for the 1996 crop.     was 25 percent.
grain remaining under state order to  Eliminate the state orders on grain    No announcement yet on state orders
50 percent of world prices for the  by 1997 and on cotton by 1998.   and prices for 1997 crops, and likely
1995 crop Nwas ainounced on                                         that Goverment will delay any
February 8, 1995 by Presidential                                     further phase-out until 1998. 
Decree                                                                                                    I



Page 2 of 6
Objectives                 Actions Already                Fulfilled Before Board                Medium-Term                       Current Status
Taken                          Presentation                        Actions
2. Trade
Diminish role of         Tax on foreign exchange proceeds    A specific mechanism for the     Start implementing agreed auction    Government did not eliminate export
centralized exports and  removed on April 11, 1994 by      automatic granting of cotton export   mechanism for export licensing by   licensing for the three export
imports and imploit tax    Presidential Decree.            licenses, acceptable to the Bank, was June 30, 1995.                 commodities other than cotton by
isort an.          .                                       announced on January 31, 1995                                        January 1, 1997, nor did it initiate
distortion,              Number of goods subject to export   through a Cabinet of Ministers                                     auctions of export licenses for those
licensing reduced (I1 goods remain). Resolution.                                                      three. Export licensing for cotton
had been placed under simplified
Import duties were abolished in Feb.                                                                  procedures by mid-I 995 but not
1994 until July 1, 1995.                                                                              sufficiently to render them automatic
Responsibility for customs control                                                                    as agreed.
transferred to Taxation Committee.
By June 30, 1995, develop an      No progress has been made on
agricultural taxation system      agricultural taxation despite policy
Improve access and                                                                            acceptable to the Bank which would  advice from the Bank.
New currency introduced (Sum in                                     eliminate need for state orders or
allochationge.foreign    July 1994).                                                          export taxes, notably on cotton.
exchange.                                                                                     Start implementing by December
Organized forex market.                                             31, 1995.
A weekly auction mechanism
established on April 15, 1994. A
dual exchange rate system has been
implemented from April - September
1994. In October, the system was
unified. Overall surrender
requirements to interbank foreign
exchange auctions increased to 30
percent of forex receipts, extended to
centralized exports and to be
channelled through the auction as of
Nov. 15, 1994. As of January 1,
1995, 100% of centralized export
proceeds are
to be channeled through the auction.
Authorized banks and dealers
increased to thirteen.



Page 3 of 6
Objectives                 Actions Already                Fulfilled Before Board                Medium-Term                       Current Status
Taken                          Presentation                         Actions
3. Subsidies
Eliminate subsidies that
have distortionary effect on  Direct food subsidies have been
the incentive structure,  recently removed and price controls
eliminated, except for administered
prices for bread and flour.
Rationing of staple foodstuff has
been eliminated.
Reduce the differential between   The price differential between
Full pass through on industrial                                     household and industrial tariffs for   household and industrial energy
tariffs for gas, electricity and heat                               heat by 50 percent by June 30,    prices was reduced in April 1996
has been implemented.                                               1995, for gas and electricity by 25    and further in December 1996 to
percent bv July 1, 1995 and another  meet the levels agreed under the
25 percent by Dec. 31, 1995.      Rehabilitation Program, a 12 month
delay.
4. Antimonopoly
Promote competition in   Antimonopolv law enacted in 1992.  A Cabinet of Ministers Resolutioni   Submit to the Bank for review by
wholesale and retail trade                                  was issued on February 6, 1995    April 1, 1995 the action plan for  A nes antimonopol lamovr which
and related storage and  Department of Implementation of    announcing the preparation of a   demonopolization and removal of    defines monopohes more
transport services       Antimonopolv and Price Policv      detailed and timehound action plan   barriers to entrn in the wNarehousing,  appropriately, was passed in
established within the MOF.       for the (i) denmonopolization of  wholesale trade and transport     antimonopoly com, ission has been
Improve control over abuse                                  dominant entities in the transport,   sectors. Implementation to start by   up
of monopoly power.       Uzbeksavdo (largest trade          warehouse and wholesale trade     June 30, 1995.                    set up
monopoly) has privatized about    sectors (including Uzbeksavdo,
11,000 trade and retail outlets.  Uzautotrans, Uzbekberlyashu,      Amend antimonopoly law by
Uznefteproduct), and (ii) removal of  June 30, 1995 to establish an
barriers to entry by new private  independent competition authority,
enterprises in these sectors. The  regulate natural monopolies,
Action Plan to be prepared by     establish an office of Utility
March 31, 1995.                   Regulation; and set criteria for
anticompetitive behavior and
corresponding sanctions.
Liberalize entry into auto freight  The Government has committed to
transport bv March 31, 1995, bv    actions to create a competitive
replacing licensing with registration   commercial trucking ( or auto freight
requirement.                     transport) sector but has not yet
requirement.            ~~~undertaken them.



Page 4 of 6
Objectives                 Actions Already                 Fulfilled Before Board                 Medium-Term                       Current Status
Taken                          Presentation                         Actions
B. ENTERPRISE
REFORM
1. Privatization
Develop a coherent,       January 21, 1994 Presidential     The State Property Committee (SPC) Design, approve and announce       The Govenmuent has completed
consistent pnvatization   Decree calls for measures to broaden  prepared and announced an action    detailed, time-bound implementation  actions required in privatization,
program aiming at broad    privatization, including participation  plan acceptable to the Bank  arrangements, acceptable to the
participation and a       of private individuals, purchase of    specifying: * (1) the scope of  Bank, for the mass privatization
primarily private,       land where enterprises are located,   privatization: number by size and    scheme using investment funds by
nonmonopolistic economy,  and creation of a stock exchange.  sector; and the minimum and/or    May 31, 1995.
maximum percentage of ownership
Over the last 24 months, regular  to be offered for sale to staff, the
privatization has begun, involving    investment funds, and the public, for Prepare a comprehensive legislative
about 10,000 SOEs (mostly small- to  medium-and large- scale enterprises;  and institutional framework for
medium-sizes), mainly through     (2) the approach for privatization  open, transparent process in the
transfers to their staff.         including the means, methods and    initial and secondary offerings of
procedures for divestment in each    enterprise shares, other securities
1993 Resolutions of the Cabinet of   category and the institutional  and debt instruments, including
Ministers urged rapid privatization.   arrangements. Such action includes  independent share clearing facilities
a privatization scheme using      and share registry and depositories
Auctions of state assets and small   investment funds acceptable to the    by June 30, 1995.
enterprises have begun in March   Bank able to promote speed, equity
1994                              and corporate governance in the
privatization process; and (3) a
Privatization proceeds transferred to  timetable for each element of the
the central budget in August. 1994.   plan and each enterprise category,
indicating dates for specific numbers
of enterprises to be corporatized.
Remove privatization                                         The SPC issued on Februarv 24,
constraints in order to   Business profile restraints have been  1995. Additional procedures for
promote equity and       removed.                           medium-and large scale
efficiency.                                                 privatizations to be conducted
On January 5, 1995 a Presidential    through transparent, competitive
Decree was issued to strongly     sales, including rules to govern
support Private Sector Development,  domestic and international tenders
for lead shareholdings in medium-
and large-scale enterprises
privatized through a case-by-case
approach.



Page 5 of 6
Objectives                  Actions Already                  Fulfilled Before Board                 Medium-Term                         Current Status
Taken                           Presentation                          Actions
2. Governance of State-
Owned Enterprises
(SOEs)                                                                                         ByJn   0  95 rnfn   0              Almost all medium and large state
Clarify ownership,        All State property has been clearly                                     percent of closed mediuBy-and large   er 1              transfonned
property and management  identified as Republican or                                              scale SOEs into open joint stock    into open joint stock companies.
rights of SOEs. Separate   Municipal Property.                                                    company form. Shares to be
SOE's ownership and                                                                               registered at the Ministry of Finance
management functions;     Presidential Decree of January. 1994                                    and fully transferable.
establish commercial      provides for (i) Concerns to be
objectives and permit      dissolved or changed into
management autonomy       Associations; (ii) Closed companies
while holding it          to be transformed into open
accountable for meeting   companies.
commercial objectives
according to market-based   The process of registration of shares
performance criteria.     of open joint-stock companies at the
Ministry of Finance formed as of
October 1, 1994 has been completed.
Impose discipline Oll the    1991 and 1992 Resolutions broadly   Methods to improve financial     Select a group of enterprises among   The restructuring of some of the
Impse adisclowo ineancte   19iad19aRsltonlral    discipline of enterprises, includiing    the largest loss-makers to participate  bareing  oosmkng state enterprises,
use and flow of financial    define relations between Concerns    the opening principles of a pilot  in the pilot restructuring facility bv   has not taken place, but discipline is
resources to enterprises,    and SOEs.                        scheme for passive restructuring of   June 30, 1995.                    beingimposed o  tt  nepie
particuilarlv the largest loss                                telrstos-arshvbenby monitoring those with the largest
makers.                   August 1993 Decree urged improved  established.                         The Credit Bureau  ill report to tiitiating bankruptcv
performance or rapid elimination of                                                                        procedures for some.
identified loss-making SOEs.       A               ble to the Ban   r  Government on a quarterly basis,
selcrteing aenterpries to the putk undr  enterprises arrears to the 'budget, to   Th'le Credit Bureau s has made
Government has established a Credit  the      enterpiot      pu un    the Bank, and to othler enterprises    pe       timelies an qalt o
Bureu udertheCenralBan to the proposed pilot restructuring    and creditors.                      datagreporting Sieines anovembervo
Bureau under the Central Bank to    scheme has been determined and                                         data reporting. Since November
operate a centralized iiformation  announced.                                                              1995, 30 of the SOEs with the
and monitoring system of enterprises                                                                       highest arrears have been monitored
arrears to the Government (loans                                                                           closely.
from the Budget, taxes and social  The Credit Bureau developed
securitv contributions), to the banks   selection criteria acceptable to the
andurity contributions), to other  an s   Bank to determine which enterprises
and to other enterprises and       should stop receiving new bankl
creditors.                         credits. The Credit Bureau
identified debt and arrears for the
largest 30 users of credit in 1994 and
provided the information to the Bank
in an agreed format.



Page 6 of 6
Objectives                 Actions Already               Fulfilled Before Board                Medium-Term                      Current Status
Taken                         Presentation                        Actions
C. SOCLkL SAFETY
NET
1. Pensions
Rationalize current      Pension Law, effective 1994, and a   Cabinet of Ministers has submitted   Implement the revised scheme of  The revision of pension adjustments
pension structure to     decree of April 15, 1994 reduced  to the Parliament on February 8,    pension adjustment by July 1, 1995.  was accomplished through a
contain costs and ensure    number of groups entitled to early    1995 with a revised system for                              Presidential Decree; however, it is
adequacy.                pensions.                         adjusting pension benefits.                                        still hoped that pension reform will
be enacted into law.
Strengthen enforcement of  Daily penalty for late payment
payroll tax collection.  reduced to 0.2 percent in January
1994.



The World Bank                                  APPENDIX B
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                    Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995     Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                        Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                             TM Division: EC3C I                 Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK 1. IDENTIFIERS
j Region: ECA     Country: UZBEKISTAN                  I Sector: MT               Lending Instrument: RIL
Prog. Obj. Cat.: EA         I EA Category: T       PTI? Y         NGO? N         Resettlement? N
Loan Information ($M)
Agreement   L/C/G      Original     Revised   Currencv   Product        Signing   Effectiveness  Supplemental
Type      Number   Amounts    Amounts  Indicator          Line         Date         Date       Project ID
IBRD       38610     160 00                   POOL        PE        04/05/1995   04/12/1995
Total Original Amount- 160.00                   Total Revised Amount: 160.00
Cofinancin2          Agency                           Board Amount (SM)   Current Amount ($M)
Trust Funds
Others
l___                       Total           0.00                0.00                      |
Guarantee Type:                                    Guarantee Amount (SM):
This    ( ) Initial summary         Read    (X) Aide-memoire                lMission End Date: 11/05/1996
form    ( ) Supervision mission     together (X) BTO memo of: 11/05/1996     Months since last mission: 17
is part  ( ) Portfolio status update    with    (X) Follow-up letter of: 11/05/1996 i Next mission planned:
lof      ( ) Mid-term review        l----         ----.----- -   ---- ---                     -- -----------1
-    (X) ICR mission             This Form 590 Date: 03/31/1997            Last Form 590 Date: 07/05/1996
i Supervision Effort               Total          Total          Field          Field          As of
Staff-weeks       $000        Staff-weeks       $000        03/31/1997
Current FY - Planned            1.20          3.87
Current FY - Actual             1 20          3.87           0.(0           0.00
Board through preceding FY    62.98         185.31           12.20         47.33
Total Actual                  64.18         189.18          12.20          47.33
Number of                                    Previous
UPI Number  Mission Member                  Division   Field Dayvs  Role or Specialization          mission?
15053   JORGENSEN                      EC3CI        7.0      ECONOMIST                           Y



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                 Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                     Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995     Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                         Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                              TM Division: EC3CI                  Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK 2. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
1.   The objectives of the project are to:
(i) Support the Government in the design and implementation of its structural reform program:
(ii) Ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance critical imports and minimize the negative impact on the level
of economic activity stemming from delay of reform and transition disruption, and
(iii) Deepen the existing foreign exchange market to improve private sector access.
Key indicators of development outcome/impact
Key indicators of development outcome are:
(i) Phase-out of state orders;
(ii) Design and implementation of a privatization program for medium and large-scale enterprises:
(iii) Initiating the isolation of a selected group of distressed statc-owned enterprises from the
financial sector: and
(iv) Further development of the interbank auction market for foreign exchange.
Key indicators of development impact are:
(i) Acceleration of implementation of a comprehensive stnmctural reform program;
(ii) Avoidance of sustained economic decline:
(iii) Provision of a framework for donor support:
(iv) Deepening of the foreign exchange market: and
(v) Increased access to the foreign exchange market for the private sector.
2.
Key indicators of development outcome/impact
Have project development objectives changed since Board approval? N  Date:
Has there been a mid-term review? N  Date:               MTR scheduled for
Has the project been restructured? N  Date:



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891               Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                   Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995     Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                       Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                            TM Division: EC3C1                  Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK 3. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Closine Date  Proj Cost (SM)   1
Original from SAR/MOP 06/30/1996          160.0       Project age in years: 2.0
As formally revised                       160.0       As % of elapsed time from Board to expected closing: 160.0
Expected - this Form 590  06/30/1996      160.0       Number of formal closing date extensions: 0
Expected - last Form 590  06/30/1996      160.0       Date of last extension:
Cost overrun (percent): 0.0                          l Closing Delay (months):
[            _-        ____       8   __   I __ _   _                _______   _   .
Disbursement amounts in millions of US$                          Original Disbursement lag (% forecast): 0.0
As of 02/28/1997                                                | Original Disbursement lag (months): -58
Amount        /O-          Revised Disbursement lag (% forecast):
Original SAR/MOP Forecast              160.0      100.0          Revised Disbursement lag (months):
Formally Revised Forecast                                        Date of last disbursement: 12/31/1995
Actual Disbursements                   160.0      100.0          Are disbursements now under suspension? N
Revised Disb. Forecast for Current FY    0.0        0.0
Actual Disbursements For Current FY      0.0        0.0          Please indicate the latest date suspension was:
Undisbursed Loan/Credit/Grant Balance    0.0        0.0          Imposed:               Lifted:
Reasons for Formally Revising Disbursement Estimates
Quick Disbursing Components                           Expected               Actual       Expected v.
(For SALs, SECALs, RILs, DRLs, and Hybrids only)    Date   Amount (SM)        Date      Actual (months)
First Tranche        04/30/1995      160.0        04/12/1995        -I
Actual Amount (SM):  160.0
Overdue                      Received
Audited Financial Statements    1-3 Months    >3 Months      Qualified    Account. Issues
- entity/organization       N              N              N              N
- project (incl. SOE)       N              N              N              N
- special accounts          N              N              N              N
| Progress Reports                  N              N
Actions Taken on Audit/Accountability Issues
(i) Bank assisted Government with TOR for outside auditor.
(ii) Government hired auditor.
(iii) Completed audit, which should have been submitted June 1996, was received on March 27, 1997.



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                 Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                      Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995      Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABIL.TATION                          Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                              TM Division: EC3CI                    Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK 4. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS RATINGS
Last 590   This 590        Component                                     Categorv                    Cost ($M)
S          S           FOREIGN EXCHANGE                              Other                            160.0
Last 590   This 590        Specific aspects
S          S           Counterpart funds
S          S           Project management
Procurement                                       US   Highly Satisfactory
Resettlement                                      S    Satisfactory
Environment                                       U    Unsatisfactory
Environmental plan                                HU   Highly Unsatisfactory
Financial covenants                               NR   Not Rated
S          S           Other legal covenants                                   Not Applicable
WID Impact
Monitoring and Evaluation
Last 590   This 590        Summary Implementation Progress Rating (IP)
S          S           Summary IP rating should be based primarily on progress by component
..Check principal reasons for (highly) unsatisfactory IP rating, or if IP rating is satisfactorv but problems exist,
check principal problems:
(X) Legislative approvals                         ( ) Management of Special Accounts        .
(X) Administrative problems                       ( ) Shortage and/or delay in supply of materials
(X) Central core government                   ( ) Procurement
( ) Sectoral ministries/agencies            '( . ) Supplier/contractor performance  ...
( ) Provincial/state authorities
) Local government                          ( ) Land acquisition
( ) Resettlement
)Counterpart fund shortfall                    ( ) Other environmental
|   ) Central government               -  .()Community/NGO/political opposition
)  State/provincial/local                              ......... .. .. ... ................. ......
( ) Internal cash generation                      ( ) Prolect/component design
(X) Borrower commitment
( ) Suspended Bank/IDA disbursements                                    ' '                                   ..
(.) Other donors/cofinanciers                     ( j Turnover of government officials/project management staff
- ( ) Inadequate resources for supervision
( ) Project management              :             ( ) Inappropriate conditionalitvy
) Implementing agencv staffing                    -.-.'    ..   ...
( ) Consultant performance
Other reasons:
. . .   .                      .       . .   . .                   . .   .   . . .  ..



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891               Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                   Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995    Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                       Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                            TM Division: EC3CI                 Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK 5. KEY ASSUMPTIONS AND RISKS RATINGS
Risk Ratings
Last 590   This 590      Generic Assumptions
N         M           World Market Conditions/Prices
N         M           Local/National Market Conditions/Prices
Climatic/Environmental Conditions              H    High
N         M           Political/Security Conditions                   S    Substantial
N         M           Macroeconomic Policies/Conditions               M    Modest
N         M           Sector Policies/Conditions                      N    Low or Negligible
M         M           Private Sector Response                         NR   Not Rated
Community/NGO Support                                Not Applicable
N         N           Government Administrative Capacitv
Counterpart Funding
Risk Ratings
Last 590   This 590      Proiect-specific Assumptions                              Identified in SAR?
N          N          INCREASING INTERENTERPRISE ARREARS WILL NOT                      Y
JEOPARDIZE MONETARY AND FISCAL TARGETS
H          NO FOLLOWING ADJUSTMENT LOANS                                    N
Risk Ratings
Last 590   This 590
N         M           Summary Risks Rating



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                   Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                       Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995       Form 590 Sequence Nit
Project Name: REHABILITATION                           Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/N4INISTRY OF FINANT
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                                TM Division: EC3CI                    Since: 05/13/1990
BLOCK 6. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES: PERFORMANCE FACTORS AND RATING
Factors on which DO rating is based (where possible, refer to the key development outcome/impact indicators in Blnk 2)
Progress against key development outcome indicators has been acceptable but slower than planned (see Block 2):
(i) State orders for the 1996 crops of cotton and grain were substantially less than for 1995. and prices to farincrs Nxxcl.
higher.
(ii) The privatization investment funds are operating and auctions of the first 300 enterprises have begun
(iii) Isolation of the 30 largest debt-ridden public enterprises is no longer necessarv because the Government has lake.  il I
actions that achieve the same objective. The Government has been closelv monitoring arrears of the 30() orst cnlerpiist
since November 1995. and a Presidential Decree of January 24. 1996 further strengthened financial disciplinc. In additioi
the bankruptcy law has begun to be implemented: and the Government has agreed to privatize or liquidate thcse IO
enterprises.
(iv) The interbank auction market for foreign exchange had twice weeklv auctions starting at the beginning olF I '0)1. biln {l
has reverted to once weekly auctions in 1997. The weekly volume of foreign exchange traded has increased to $66 1ni IIi:l
from $10 million weekly in January 1995.
Progress against key development impact indicators has been unsatisfactorv (see Block 2);
(i) Implementation of a comprehensive structural reform program has been much slower thani agreed withi (he Bank ollur
this loan.
(ii) Sustained economic decline has been avoided. GDP declined by only .9% in 1995 and rose by 1.6% in I 99o.
(iii) A framework for donor support is only partially in place. Macroeconomic stabilization has deteriorated. In iadditiwri I li
Government does not have a Public Investment Program that would identif' projects for donor financing. The cotnir't
continuing strong external position has minimized the need for balance of payments support.
(iv) The volume of trading in the foreign exchange market has risen sharplx since the begiining of the Relhabili;ilt isn
Program (see iv above).
(v) Private sector access to the foreign exchange market has been severely curtailed siiice November 1996, after more! 11
vyear of increasing liberalization. Foreign exchange is being allocated at multiple rates to prioritv sectors. and slate
enterprises and strategic ventures with foreign investors are being favored
i   Last 590    This 590       Summary Development Objectives (DO) Rating
S          U            HS   Highly Satisfactory            S    Satisfactory
U     Unsatisfactory               HU   Highly Unsatisfactory



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                 Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                      Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995      Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                          Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                               TM Division: EC3C1                   Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK A. SUMMARY OF CURRENT PROJECT STATUS, ISSUES AND PROBLEMS
The loan has been fully disbursed. Progress on conditionality has been substantial overall, although ridden with delays and
reversals. In some policv areas, backsliding was followed eventually by corrective actions, but these were not always
sufficient to fulfill the Government's obligations under the Rehabilitation Program. Each medium-term action from the
policy matrix is reported on below (but note that since this was a one-tranche operation, these were not tranche release
conditions). Of these 16 policy conditions, 11 are more or less completed, although some policy objectives have been pursued
through slightly different actions than originally envisioned. Another 4 conditions are on their way to being met (competitive I
procurement: 1997 state orders, automatic export licensing; demonopolization of the trucking sector). On only one  I
medium-term policy condition--the reform of agricultural taxation--is there little sign of action.
-- Work is ongoing to replace the former system of state orders with a system of state procurement by competitive tender. The
Bank has been providing advice, and an Institutional Development Fund grant of $160.000 to assist in the developmeiit of
public procuement legislation and training of personnel in procurement procedures was approved in October 1996.
--The Government agreed on a plan for the phase out of state orders with the Bank in 1995; however, reforms have not
proceeded as agreed and have been particularly plagued by delays.
-- State procurement for grain in 1996 was 25 percent.
-- The Government has not yet announced further reductions in state orders and increased prices for the 1997 cotton and
grain crops, an action scheduled for January 1997. It is likely that the Government will delay any further phase-out until
1998.
--The 1995 state procurement price for grain was only about 40 percent of world prices, rather than 50 percent. For 1996,
the Bank agreed to $130 per ton, which constituted 75 percent of world price only by alternative calculations to those agreed
at Negotiations; the price setting was 3 months late.
-- Of the four export commodities that required export licenses, the Government did not eliminate export licensing fur the
three other than cotton as it had promised by January 1, 1997, nor did it initiate auctions of export licenses for those three
export goods, as committed under the Program. Export licensing for cotton had been placed under simplified procedures by
mid-1995 but not sufficiently to render them automatic as agreed.
-- The development of an agricultural taxation system to replace lost revenues as state orders and export taxes were reduced,
particularly for cotton, has not progressed despite policy advice from the Bank.
-- The price differential between household and industrial energy prices was reduced in April 1996 and further in December
1996 to meet the levels agreed under the Rehabilitation Program. a 12-month delay.
-- In the area of antimonopoly policy, implementation of demonopolization of the warehousing, wholesale trade and
transport sectors has begun. Wholesale trade in consumer goods (and warehousing) has become more competitive, although
that for raw materials and intermediate goods remains dominated by a single association.
-- A new antimonopoly law, which defines monopolies more appropiiately, was passed in December 1996, 18 mouiths late.
An independent antimonopol) authority has been set up.
-- The Government has committed to actions to create a competitive commercial trucking (or auto freight transport) sector
but has not yet undertaken them.
-- The Government has completed actions required in privatization. as reported in the last Form 590.
-- Almost all medium- and large-state enterprises have been transformed into open joint stock companies.
-- The restructuring of some of the largest loss-making state enterprises, has not taken place, but the Government has
achieved the same objective of imposing discipline on state enterprises by monitoring state enterprises with the largest
arrears and initiating bankruptcy procedures for some. It was expectcd that improved governance of state enterprises would



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                 Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                     Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995     Form S90 Sequence Nt
Project Name: REHABILITATION                         Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKIS'rAN/M[NIS'TRY OP 0'FIA.N( 'I
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                              TM Division: EC3CI                  Since: 5/';/l /.1996
BLOCK A. SUMMARY OF CURRENT PROJECT STATUS, ISSUES AND PROBLEMS (CONTl NIih))
be further supported under the Enterprise Reform Loan (negotiated but not v,t submitted to thl ie3oxl roih, " e X 1. ' !u eiC
deterioration of macroeconomic conditions).
-- The Credit Bureau set up in the Central Bank to collect data on enterprise arrears lhas macde progress u,  ; ilS'
quality of data reporting. Since November 1995, 30 of the SOEs with the highest arrears have becn uiinoe (i ..
--The revision of pension adjustments was accomplished through a Presidential Decrec; howevci il is still llop(a ,m 
pension reform will be enacted into law.
Problems that are likely to/may delay project implementation over the next six to twelve months
The loan has been fully disbursed.
L_



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                    Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995     Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                        Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTANIMINISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                             TM Division: EC3C1                  Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK B. STATUS OF PREVIOUSLY AGREED ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Borrower:
Agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE                   Action Number: I       Due Date: 06/30/1996
Furnish to the Bank the report of audit for 1995, as described in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement.
Actions taken and current status
Audit report was received March 27, 1997.
Agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE                   Action Number: 2       Due Date: 12/31/1996
Complete Borrower's part of Implementation Completion Report.
Actions taken and current status
Borrower submitted its part of the ICR to the Bank on February 21, 1997.
Bank:
Action Number: I        Due Date: 12/31/1996
Implementation Completion Report.
Actions taken and current status
The ICR will be finalized following the recent submission of the audit.



The World Bank
Run: 1997-05-13 14:36:28.047891                Project Status Report
Project ID: 9129                                   Board Approval Date: 03/28/1995     Form 590 Sequence No 3
Project Name: REHABILITATION                       Borrower: REPUB.OF UZBEKISTAN/MiNISTRY OF FINANCE
Task Manager: JORGENSEN                            TM Division: EC3C1                  Since: 05/13/1996
BLOCK C. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Borrower:
Bank:
Action Number: I       Due Date:
The Rehabilitation Loan is closed and fully disbursed as of June 30*  tl9o.
SIGNATURES
Task Manager                 Date       Managing Division Chief/Portfolio Mgr    Date



APPENDIX C
1 of 9
FINAL REPORT
ON THE COMPLETION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE WORLD BANK
REHABILITATION LOAN
l.    Introduction
1.    The Rehabilitation Loan in the amount of 160 million US dollars was granted by the
World Bank to support the efforts of the Government of Uzbekistan aimed at further
macrostabilization and implementation of the planned program of structural reforms in conformity
with the Letter on Economic Policies submitted to the World Bank management and signed by the
Deputy Prime Minister, Governor of the Republic of Uzbekistan in the IBRD.
2.    Following the approval of the Rehabilitation Loan by the Board of Directors (March 28,
1995), the Government passed the Resolution on the Utilization of the Rehabilitation Loan on
May 4th. In accordance with the Resolution of the State Property Committee, the Ministry of
Finance and the Central Bank were designated as the principal agencies important for an effective
project implementation.
3.    The main objectives of the Rehabilitation Loan were as follows:
=*    supporting the Government in the development and implementation of a structural reform;
-     reducing the shortage of foreign currency necessary for financing critical imports (raw and
other materials and spare parts) to avoid a negative impact on the economic activity whose
slump could impede the process of reforms,
-     giving the private sector a broader access to the currency market.
II.   Assessment of Outputs and Project Objectives Achieved
A.    Implementation of the Economic Reform Program
4.    On the whole, despite the delay in implementing certain interventions the main objectives
set forth before the project have been attained. Unfortunately, some of the interventions agreed
upon with the Bank were accepted too late, and progress in further macrostabilization could have
been still more impressive.
5.    It should be noted that the Rehabilitation Loan was the first political loan granted to
Uzbekistan and the Bank's second operation in the Republic. At the time of negotiating the Loan
the Government did not have sufficient experience of working with the Bank and, in particular,
with such operations as a rehabilitation loan. Despite this fact we believe that from the very
beginning a sufficiently good working relationship and an atmosphere of mutual trust has been
established by the Bank executives and experts of Government ministries and departments. In this
context the role of the project manager was especially important, and we would like to express
our sincere gratitude to her for it.



2 of 9
6.    Largely thanks to the flexibility displayed by both parties and dedication to the search for a
consensus solutions were found to many issues that permitted to utilize the loan within the
designated time-limit.
B.    System Changes and Macroeconomic Stabilization
7.    It goes without saying that the Rehabilitation Loan, combined with the mechanism of
financing system changes by the IMF, played a major role in pursuing macrostabilization policies.
More than a year and a half after its approval by the Board of Directors it can be pointed out that:
(i)    The evolutionary approach to the reforms supported by the aforesaid IMF and IBRD
operations permitted to avoid a sharp production decline. In the first four years of independence
the decline in the volume of the gross domestic product was no more than 17% while in most
CIS countries it reached 40%. In 1995 production decline was only 1.2%.
(ii)  Inflation has dropped considerably. In the entire year of 1995 it amounted to 116.9%
which was 6.4 times less than in 1994. While at the beginning of 1995 the average monthly
inflation rate was 16-17%, by the end of the year it was down to 4%, and in the middle of the year
the consumer price index was even negative.
(iii)   Despite a considerable growth of 10.9% in total imports in 1995 against 1994, and of
34.2% in trade with remote foreign countries, the payment balance was prevented from
deterioration, and the net volume of international reserves was maintained at the level of more
than 6-month imports.
(iv)   Measures aimed at consolidating the state budget were planned and successfully
implemented within the framework of the 1995 reform program. Budget support to public
enterprises was open and limited; consumer subsidies on central heating and hot water supply paid
from the budget, and expenditure on the maintenance of the housing reserve did not exceed 2% of
the GDP; and the limit for the state servants Wages Fund in the amount of 15% of the GDP, and
for the support of the vulnerable groups of the population in the amount of 3% of the GDP was
observed.
(v)   A number of measures were taken to intensify the r ole o taxes as an incentive including a
rise in the land and water tax rate; introduction of the tax on mineral wealth; a reduction of the
profit tax on enterprises active in technical modernization and reconstruction; a rise in the
property tax rate; a reduction of the VAT from 20 to 18% as well as its application to most
services and its calculation on the basis of the tax on imported goods; reconsideration and a sharp
reduction of lax taxation of enterprises as well as other measures.
(vi)  In the area of monetary policies, partial convertibility of the national currency was secured
in 1995. The functioning of the domestic currency market proceeded under the influence of such
factors as transition to two weekly auctions at the National Currency Exchange, lifting of
restrictions on currency exchange for residents of the Republic of Uzbekistan, and securing of



3 of 9
convertibility of the soum for wholesale operations on the basis of the statements of authorized
banks. The Central Bank of Uzbekistan (CBU) set transparent restrictions both on the amounts
of credits extended to commercial banks and on pure Government crediting. The refinancing rate
began to be defined on the basis of the past and forecast inflation rate, and the currency market
was considerably expanded to include 17 commercial banks by the end of 1995 engaged in selling
and buying currency. By the end of 1995 a basis was provided for issuing the GKO (short-term
state liabilities), and the first issue took place in March 1996.
(.    Structural Changes
8.    The program  of interventions supported by the Rehabilitation Loan laid a reliable,
although not quite full, foundations for structural reform and created a framework for the Bank's
future operations.
(i)   In conformitv with the January 1995 Decree of the President aimed at encouraging
private enterprise the procedure of registration of private enterprises was considerably simplified,
and the former staff restrictions on private enterprises canceled. Privatization proceeds permitted
to more than double support of entrepreneurship in the form of crediting and targeted investing.
Private production enterprises and companies rendering services were exempted from taxation for
the first two vears of their establishment. The aforesaid Decree paved the ground for establishing
over 55 thousand new individual and small enterprises in 1995. In accordance with Government
Resolution #125 of June 10, 1995 more than 100 gas filling stations were privatized. Besides
that, by its Resolution of August 28, 1995 the Cabinet of Ministers approved the State Program
of Supporting Small Business and Private Enterprise which outlined the main objectives, tasks and
areas of intensified development of small businesses and private enterprise.
(ii)   Taking a critical attitude towards the errors made in meeting our obligations we are aware
of the lost opportunities in conducting the structural reform in an accelerated way and especially
mnass-scale privatization. However, it should be pointed out that 1995 witnessed a change in
ownership of 8,537 entities, including 1,844 enterprises and organizations privatized in conformity
with the program adopted in 1995. In addition, 6,702 small enterprises and organizations were
privatized outside the aforesaid program. The process of denationalization, privatization and
corporatization has practically been completed in the light industry and the industry of
construction materials. With the aim of furthering the formation of a legislative and regulatory
framework for privatization and development of the securities market were passed 2 decrees of
the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 8 resolutions of the Cabinet of Ministers on issues of
privatization of economic sectors as well as certain enterprises and property, and the Laws of the
Republic of Uzbekistan on Joint-Stock Companies and Protection of Stockholders' Rights, and on
Encouraging the Development of Small and Private Businesses. Amendments were introduced
into all normative acts regulating the process of privatization and denationalization. To involve
the broad public in the process of privatization and accumulate the population's money to be
subsequently spent on the acquisition of shares of public enterprises undergoing privatization
through a network of privatization investment funds whose peculiarities will be dwelt upon below,
the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan passed a relevant resolution. By the end of
1996, 24 PIFs were registered in the Republic which sell 7.54 million soums worth of shares.



4 of 9
(iii)   To secure an adequate reaction from  enterprises to the undertaken measures of
macroeconomic stabilization the Government tightened financial control of most state
enterprises. A Credit Bureau established within the Central Bank with the assistance of World
Bank experts was monitoring overdue arrears of major enterprises to banks, the budget and
suppliers. On the basis of the 1995 results the Bureau exposed 30 public enterprises with total
arrears of 2,161 million soums. All of them were isolated from the banking system, and one
enterprise was restructured in 1995, and another 21 were restructured later.  Reduction of
overdue arrears which started in November 1995 can be explained by tighter financial discipline
which resulted from the Presidential Decree of May 12, 1995. Besides that, in the middle of 1995
serious measures were taken to implement the provisions of the Law on Bankruptcy passed in
1994. In 1995 commercial banks alone declared 635 enterprises insolvent, of which 32 were
declared bankrupt by economic courts in the mass media and were either liquidated or are
undergoing liquidation.
(iv)   Liberalization of prices. The rationing of essential foodstuffs was completely canceled
starting on January 1, 1995. By mid-1995 domestic wholesale prices for oil and oil products were
raised to constitute 75% of world prices. In October 1996 prices for them were set completely
free.  The difference between gas, water and central heating tariffs for enterprises and the
population was considerably reduced. Special mention should be made of the taken and met
Government commitments to reduce state orders on cotton and grain, as well as of raising
purchasing prices on them.
(v)   Antimonopoly interventions. By the middle of loan utilization work was accelerated on
restricting monopolistic behavior of enterprises occupying a leading position in wholesale trade
and hauling, and barriers were lifted to the emergence of new private enterprises in these areas.
(vi)   Agricultural reform. By the end of 1995 about 20% of farmlands were turned over to
private and family-owned farms. The rest of irrigated land was leased to collective farms and
associations of peasant and cooperative farms. In the area of land rights a number of steps were
taken to provide better guarantees of the right of land use, specify ownership rights and simplify
registration of transactions. In May and August 1995 the Parliament adopted an amendment to
the Law on Land permitting private ownership and transfer of land to trade and public service
enterprises. Auction sale of land plots to individuals for lifelong hereditary ownership was
permitted. Land under buildings is now included in the assets of privatized enterprises while
enterprises which were privatized without the land plots can acquire the plots of land under them
at nominal prices set by the law. In conformity with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of
March 24, 1995 on Furthering Privatizing and Support of Private Enterprise in Livestock
Breeding, 528 feedlots and 209 thousands of heads of cattle were sold through auctions.
(vii)  Trade liberalization. A considerable progress has been made within the framework of the
loan in liberalizing both internal and external trade. The process of a gradual transition from
stringent nontariff regulation to tariff-based regulation has deepened: a new import tariff was
introduced as of October 1, 1995, and export customs tariff rates were corrected several times. A
mechanism of automatic issuance of export licensees of export licensees on cotton was



5 of 9
introduced.  In June 1995 the list of goods the export of which is subject to licensing was
considerably reduiced (down to 4 kinds of goods). By the beginning of disbursement of the
Rehabilitation Loan the list of goods banned for export was reduced to 13 items, and in June 1996
i[ was reduced by another 4 items to 9 items.
hi.ii) II ociil sumpors. Structural changes had to be accompanied by strong social protection
measures to give people time to adjust themselves both from the economic and psychological
\1ekvpoin1 to the ongoing changes in their life. It was for that reason that the introduction of a
nechanilsn  of pensions indexation with the growth of inflation rate was postponed.
ki L    M  efting Commitments by the Government
A)     t~ssessing critical changes in the economy that took place in 1995, it could be said that
.aepihe ci   e csiderable progress in macroeconomic stabilization structural reforms in some areas
^ere net   i1,11mpressive. For instance, we have failed to implement a number of interventions
ait r-ned at
achieving a radical improvement of the economic reforms in rural areas, lowering labor
-.onsumption, and making economic activity more cost-effective;
establishing a state procurement system to meet state requirements only in essential goods
and se  iees (hospitals, the army, etc.) on a competitive basis.
'tchnlical assistance for these purposes was only received in October 1996, and we are
moving fast in this direction;
developing a scheme of introduction of water changes in agriculture which could secure at
Ie. si a "O% S    cost recovery,
. er;ating a system of child allowances subject to quarterly indexation targeted for the low-
nEotile M .cleg,ories and based on the inspection of their incomes.
Tfie President's Decree of December 10, 1996 introduced a system of allowances to
fhlmnilies with children below the age of 16 which shall be paid only to those families which
r;dli- need themn;
l onsidering the system of indexation of pensions under which only minimum pensions
shall he suhject to quarterly indexation in accordance with the consumer price index while the rise
othe p-,ensilons should not exceed the nominal rise in the minimum pension; correcting the
'ioupnt {,' .fh  minlimuim pension with due regard for the subsistence wage; reducing the number
enls: .rs entitled to premature retirement; and terminating the payment of or reducing the
'  iX.lIOII5 Mpaid to those who work on a full-time basis.
l oiw evri it should be pointed out that as of January 1996 pensioners working on a full-
tir. betasis receive only 50% of their pensions with the exception of the disabled of
C. itegories i and 2 and participants in World War IL



6 of 9
As for reconsideration of the passport registration system to permit more flexibility in employment
and residence, it should be pointed out that legislation provides for a contractual system of
employment regardless of registration. besides that, problems of employment flexibility are
caused by the underdeveloped market of housing and the social infrastructure.
IV.   The Role of the Bank
10.   The Bank played a key role in assisting the Government in developing recommendations
on the program of economic reform. The main criterion in developing such recommendations was
the need for more speedy and painful reforms. In other words, the desire to achieve as much as
possible within the shortest possible time was there to be seen in the case of the Republic of
Uzbekistan as well. At the same time, as has been already mentioned, during the Bank's
preappraisal, and especially appraisal mission, both parties' (in our opinion) displayed readiness for
compromises. Both parties understood the importance of the measures that provided a political
matrix for this operation. Already at the beginning of program implementation it became clear
that the time framework for the Government's decisionmaking was too stringent. A lot of
measures that were taken have a time lag of one year or more.
11.   We believe that the principal achievement of the Loan was a considerable support its funds
rendered in developing a market of interbank currency auctions. Access to currency exchange
was considerably broadened to many enterprises including the privatized ones. Facts have shown
that foreign currency granted within the framework of the Loan promoted the development and
strengthening of the currency market of Uzbekistan thanks to which fact private enterprises
largely relying on market structures in purchasing import goods gained a broader access to
foreign currency.
12.   A especially important area of the Bank's assistance was the development of a strategy
and mechanism of mass-scale privatization. With the beginning of work on the Loan the Bank's
staff as well as its missions which supervised the implementation of the agreed upon interventions
within the framework of the Loan, were able to develop, without resorting to standard methods, a
unique plan of mass-scale privatization characterized by the following three components:
*     privatization investment funds (PIFs);
*     population participation shares (PPS),
*     preferential credits extended by the state to the PIFs according to the following ratio: 5
soums of the credit per I soum spent by the population on acquiring the PPS.
In this light we would like to dwell on the Bank's role and each mission separately:
13.   The Rehabilitation Loan identfication mission (October 23 to November 5, 1993)
focused on the main issues of the enterprise reform on which success of the general reforms is
based.  By the end of the mission discussions with (iovernment officials, bankers and
representatives of concerns and public enterprises outlined the framework and the main objectives
of the proposed loan.



7 of 9
14.   The principal achievements of the second mission in determining the Rehabilitation Loan
(,February 14 to 16, 1994) was coordination of the principal elements of the program on which the
Rehabilitation Loan policies were to focus. It was then that the Government admitted that
l nteiprise reform provided a basis for transforming Uzbekistan's economy into a market-oriented
ne, and that it would exert every effort to gradually give up the system of state orders and
*:entralized trade.  In its Aide Memoire to the Government the mission made more than 38
e(oinmendations on a wide range of issues including incentives to the basic structural reforms as
well as reforms at enterprises, in the financial sector and the social security system.
i5    The Bank's preappraisal mission (April 1 I to 22, 1994) assisted in reinforcing a number
. measures taken by the Government in implementing recommendations of the previous mission.
Fioxvever-, the Government did not take into consideration some of the recommendations of the
1)-evious mission. For instance, the State Property Committee continued to credit privatized
onterprises at negative interest rates. The mission recommended that urgent measures be taken
w/ith regard to that issue. it also left behind possible terms and conditions on which the Loan
.Old be submitted to the Board of Directors for consideration.
, TA rl he Bank's secondpreappraisal mission (June 28 to July 14, 1994) brought along several
-eference documents on experience in mass privatization in a number of counties. The mission
onvincingly showed the vulnerable spots of the privatization that had been launched here and left
i iMumrber of recommendations on remedial measures to be taken. For instance, after the mission
h.. requirement of retaining the sale profile of privatized enterprises was abandoned. The Bank's
'mssion contributed an important share in regulating the activity of commercial banks. Comments
w)v the mission's members on the draft of new rules developed by the CBU on that issue were very
:\i .ble, and the CBU management took many of them into consideration.
7    During the Bank's appraisal mission (November 2 to 14, 1994) mutual understanding
*/las reached on many issues of primary importance, including the privatization program.
H-1owever, such issues as the time-limit for canceling state orders on grain, introducing the
dutornatic issuance of export licenses, methodology of changing the system of indexation of
iJ,;isilns. and the time-limit for reducing subsidies on public utility services rendered to the
lpuilation and industry required further discussion.
'X    From December 16 to 22, 1994 Uzbekistan played host to a technical mission which
. lewed the implementation of agreements in the area of antimonopoly policies, privatization
IUd cneteprise reform. The mission arrived to the conclusion on the need to take another 4
..V,icrventions prior to the arrival of a mission for the final approval of the project, the principal one
.n( eraling correction of inconsistencies in the figures characterizing privatization indicators.
The Bank's second appraisal mission  (January 4 to  13, 1995) reached mutual
urnderstanding, and official agreement was signed on specific actions of the economic policy.
: l). The aforesaid Bank's missions, especially the preappraisal and the appraisal ones,
*u 'Itributed an essential share in various aspects of the foreign trade reform.



8 of 9
21.   The especially sent trade policy rationalization missioni (April 21 to 25, 1995) rendered a
considerable assistance in outlining the tariff policy. Political conditions of the sale and trade in
cotton advanced within the framework of the Rehabilitation Loan provided a basis for perfecting
incentives to cotton producers and expanding international trade. Unfortunately, liberalization of
the export of cotton (renunciation of licensing) was observed only for a short period. Besides
that, the mission gave consultations to the Government on the procedure of auction sales of
licenses on other goods the export of which required licensing and shared information on the
practice of auction sales of licenses in other countries.
22.   In conformity with the agreements reached within the framework of the Rehabilitation
Loan (September 13 to October 1, 1995) the Bank sent a consultant on taxation issues in
agricultur e who prepared a report on canceling state orders for cotton and grain, and options of
compensating budget revenues lost as a result of this measure. Some of the measures proposed in
the report are being implemented. For instance, the land rent has been introduced, taxation of
water consumption is being gradually widened, and certain steps are being made towards applying
the VAT to farm produce.
23.   The Bank's loan utilizationt supervision mission (September 26 to October 5, 1995) noted
a considerable acceleration of the rates of structural reforms as well as a considerable success
scored in prices liberalization, reduction of state orders and restriction of subsidies. However,
concern was expressed over the slow rates of reforming foreign trade and public enterprise
management and improving the pension system.
24.   The missions failed to achieve the desired results due to a number of reasons, one of them
being access to information. Members of the Bank's missions repeatedly pointed to a slow and
belated submission of information, as well as restricted access to it in some cases. The required
contacts were not established due to the fact that senior executives of administrative bodies were
too busy implementing a number of organizational issues (such as the introduction of national
currency in 1994). In other cases no mutual understanding was achieved on policy measures
despite regular meetings and discussions.
V.    The Course and Progress in Utilization of Loan Proceeds
25.   Despite the small number of members of the PIU that worked under the Department of the
Cabinet of Ministers for Coordination of Foreign Economic Activity, the loan proceeds were
utilized during a sufficiently short period of time. A positive role was played by the experience
gained by the Department's staff in utilizing proceeds of the previous, Institutional Loan. A
short-time foreign consultant was invited within the framework of that credit who helped train
local staff in procurement and disbursement procedures. In addition, during one of her visits to
Tashkent the Task Manager for the project noted with satisfaction the good coordination of issues
connected with furnishing the Bank with relevant information.  The necessary disbursement
documents were submitted to the Bank's headquarters without delay, as a rule, on a monthly
basis, and without any serious shortcomings.



9 of 9
26.   A speedy and deft utilization of loan proceeds took place primarily during the period of
time when the Republic badly needed hard currency, and the CBU was increasing its intervention
at every currency auction.
27.   This is confirmed by the fact that following the approval of the Loan by the Board of
Directors on March 28, 1995, the first disbursement in the amount of 32 million US dollars was
made within 15 days. Utilization of the entire amount of 160 million US dollars took eight
months.



SBRD 28006R
.<,<                                                                                               J ~~~~~~~~~UZBEKISTANi
K A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z                                                                                                                  BE KK  S T A N,i - ,-
KAZAKSTAN
I                                                                                                                                                                                       0   SELECrED CrnES
KAZAKSTAN                                                         o     OVNCE CAPALS
-.1                                                                                                                                       -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAJLROADS
4.                                                                                                                     .                   .-  INTEENATlONAL BCAJNOAAES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTRATOALBONAPE
I}                      J     0}             1990LEVELOFARALSEA
1 1960 LEVEL OF ARAL SEA
Li~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ctiJF>                                                        Rg                                                                E -P Ue  B LTJ      I SC        .*~4
,- .\ f <> < ;1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XH w s~~~~- 
-1,  -  If                                        i~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~O 25   0 5    510  725'  1O1
OFRKMENIST /A                                                                                        A F G HEN0500N .. J                                                                          CN
_4 _44                                                                                                        * _'   L5'  70  PAKISTAN    SLOMP73C  j'S      ' KAZASes
I                                   75..~~~j
ISLAMIC  REPUBLIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04.770 9









IMAGING
Report No.:          16566
Type:      ICR



