Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6525-UZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$160 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
MARCH 3, 1995
FILE COPY
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   Sum
I Sum    =    100Tins
Period Average*
1993
December              441
1994                                           August                11
January               546                      September             15
February              587                      October               21
March                 621                      November              23
April               1,287                      December              25
May                 1,477                      1995
June                4,836                      January               25
July                    9                      February
*1993-June 1994 in sum coupons. A new currency, the sum (1 sum= 1,000 sum coupons),
was introduced on July 1, 1994.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBU                               Central Bank of Uzbekistan
DCEEA                             Department of Coordination of External Activity
FSU                               Former Soviet Union
FXC                               Foreign Exchange Component
GDP                               Gross Domestic Product
IBL                               Institution Building/Technical Assistance Loan
IBRD                              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF                               International Monetary Fund
LDP                               Letter of Development Policy
MFER                              Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
MOF                               Ministry of Finance
PIU                               Project Implementation Unit
PSAD                              Price Setting and Anti-Monopoly Department
SIF                               Social Insurance Fund
SOEs                              State-Owned Enterprises
SPC                               State Property Committee
STF                               Systemic Transformation Facility
TA                                Technical Assistance
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL ISE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                         ....................... i
I. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM .1
A.   Recent Economic Developments  ...... ........................... 2
B. Macroeconomic Stabilization.                                                          3
C. Structural Reforms.                                                                   4
Incentive Framework.                                                            4
Enterprise Reform.                                                              6
Links Between Enterprise Reform and Financial Sector.                           9
Poverty Concerns ....... ................................. 10
II. THE REHABILITATION LOAN .11
A. Objectives .11
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement .12
C. Project Description .12
D.  Implementation Arrangements .12
E. Procurement .13
F. Disbursement .14
G. Retroactive Financing .14
H.    Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing .14
-. Agreements Reached .15
J.  Environmental Assessment .16
K. Benefit and Risks .16
L. Recommendation .17
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1        Letter of Development Policy
ANNEX 2        Matrix of Policy Conditions
ANNEX 3        Selected Economic Indicators
ANNEX 4        Goods Ineligible for Financing
ANNEX 5        The Foreign Exchange System
ANNEX 6        Status of Bank Group Operations
ANNEX 7        Timetable of Key Processing Events
MAP: IBRD No. 25454
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|of icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization._






REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Uzbekistan
Amount:             US$160 million equivalent
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Objectives:         The main objectives of the proposed Rehabilitation Loan are to: (i) support the
Government in the design and implementation of its structural reform
program; (ii) ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance critical
imports and minimize the transition's negative impact on the level of
economic activity stemming from delay of reform and transitional disruption,
and (iii) deepen the existing foreign exchange market to improve private
sector access.
Description:        The proposed Loan would finance imports in an amount of US$160 million.
The Loan will provide foreign exchange with the objective of strengthening
the development of Uzbekistan's incipient foreign exchange market and of
increasing access to foreign exchange by privatized and commercialized firms
that rely on market institutions for their import needs. Loan proceeds will be
channeled by the Ministry of Finance through the Central Bank's weekly
foreign exchange auctions. Eligible imports are subject to a standard negative
list. Retroactive financing is available to finance goods imported after
November 30, 1994.
Benefits:           The proposed Rehabilitation Loan supports and helps accelerate the
Government's implementation of a comprehensive structural reform program
in the transition to a market-based economy, thus avoiding sustained economic
decline which inevitably would have a negative impact on the poor. The Loan
also provides the framework for donor support, helps supports the national
currency, deepens the foreign exchange market while increasing access to it
for the private sector.



-ii-
Risks:               The main risk relate to policy slippage in implementation of stabilization and
structural reform measures. It may result from: (i) the Government's
insufficient understanding of the key macroeconomic linkages that will
determine the success of the program; (ii) increase in inter-enterprise arrears
as a result of higher interest rates that may jeopardize monetary and fiscal
targets; (iii) the Government's structure and very limited institutional
capacity, which makes it difficult to implement complex policy measures that
require coordinating policy decisions by various institutions to achieve
comprehensive reform; and (iv) a possible lack of popular support caused by
declines in output and employment. The policy package included in the
Rehabilitation Loan supports measures that will help to mitigate these risks.
Close monitoring of economic performance and provision of policy advice and
selected technical assistance will aim at alleviating the economic risk. The
Bank's efforts in mobilizing external donor support will also help to mitigate
implementation risks.
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Poverty Category:    Poverty focussed; supports social safety net reform.
Appraisal Report:    Not applicable
Estimated
Disbursement:        US$32 million (20 percent of the proposed loan) could be used to finance
retroactively eligible imports procured in the four months preceding Loan
signing. Effectiveness is expected by April 1, 1995. In addition, up to
10 percent of the Loan amount (US$16 million) per month will be available
for disbursement upon signing up. From July 1, 1995 on the monthly
disbursements will increase up to 12.5 percent of the Loan amount
(US$20 million).
Map:                 IBRD No. 25454



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED REHABILITATION LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
1.           I submit for your approval the following report and recomnmendation on a proposed
Rehabilitation Loan to the Republic of Uzbekistan for the equivalent of US$160 million to provide
support for the Government's economic reform program. The Loan would be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, with a maturity of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. This operation
is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy, presented to the Board under separate cover.
2.           Uzbekistan became a member of the IBRD in September 1992, IFC in October 1993,
and MIGA in November 1993. The first country economic memorandum (Report No. 11683-UZ)
was distributed to the Board in September 1993 and an economic report on Subsidies and Transfers
(No. 12934-UZ) was distributed in June 1994.
I. THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
3.           For the first two years after independence, the Government of Uzbekistan was very
cautious in its approach to economic reform. Although prices were partially liberalized, small shops
and housing privatized and preliminary legislation enacted, the Government retained central control of
most economic activities.
4.           In late 1993, as the economic situation deteriorated, Uzbekistan withdrew from the
ruble zone and the Government decided to consider comprehensive economic reforms. In December
1993, the Government issued a "Statement on Systemic and Macroeconomic Policy" that set forth the
framework for a reform programn for 1994 and beyond. Specifically, the Statement announced the
Government's intention to liberalize prices, limit the budget deficit, tighten credit, remove credit
subsidies, create a foreign exchange market, strengthen the Central Bank and banking system, expand
the privatization program to medium and large-scale enterprises and target social assistance--all
positive steps toward transforming Uzbekistan into a market-based economy.
5.           On January 22, 1994, a Presidential Decree called for accelerating privatization of
medium and large-scale enterprises, promoting participation of the public in privatization, promoting
enterprise reform programs, encouraging private sector activities, establishing property rights,
reducing reliance on state orders and liberalizing foreign exchange controls. The Decree and related
resolutions reduced the number of goods subject to export licensing requirements; established uniform
treatment for the Former Soviet Union (FSU) and non-FSU trade; eliminated all import tariffs until
July 1995, when a new system would be put in place. Specific measures for currency convertibility
and opening the capital account of the balance of payments, including removing the foreign exchange
proceeds tax and creating an interbank market for foreign exchange (implemented in April 1994) were
also introduced.
6.           Recent policy measures signal a significant shift toward accelerating implementation of
a reform program. During 1994, the Government started to translate its broad reform and
stabilization objectives into a comprehensive set of economic policies. In November 1994, the



Government reached agreement with the IMF on a program to be supported by the Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF) which was approved by the IMF Board on January 25. 1995. Details
of priority structural reform measures have been or are being worked out in the context of a medium-
term program. Implementing this comprehensive policy agenda will require considerable effort b) the
Government, as well as financial and technical assistance from the international community.
7.           The proposed Rehabilitation Loan is designed to assist the Government in advancing
and implementing its economic reform agenda. Particular emphasis is placed on privatization, the
deepening of the existing foreign exchange market to increase private sector participation and help
stem the economic disruption resulting from breakdown of the payment system and intra-FSU trade.
A.    Recent Economic Developments
8.           Like many other FSU countries, Uzbekistan has suffered serious macro-economic
instability and output declines since 1991. Uzbekistan suffered a cumulative decline of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) of around 15 percent during 1992-1994 compared with an average of
40 percent for the rest of the FSU. Disruption in the availability of imports particularly has
hampered manufacturing output, which fell by over 15 percent in 1993 and declined further in 1994.
The largest drop occurred in the heavy industrial sectors most closely linked to other FSU republics,
with whom trade and payments were disrupted. In contrast, agriculture, which accounts for over
35 percent of GDP, expanded moderately during 1993-1994. Domestic oil and natural gas production
also expanded significantly over the last two years. Uzbekistan's ability to diversify export markets
away from FSU trade, and growing oil and gas production, were the main factors that cushioned
output contraction. Nevertheless, despite the disruptions in interrepublic trade caused by lack of
adequate payments arrangements and shortages of foreign exchange, Uzbekistan's current account
deficit increased from $240 million in 1992 to about $400 million in 1993 and 1994. In addition to
large macroeconomic imbalances, the trade deficit has been negatively affected by the rising unit cost
of energy imports.
9.           In 1993, the consolidated budget deficit was estimated to be about 12 percent of GDP.
Real interest rates remained highly negative, and enterprises continued to show no financial discipline.
As the Government accelerated its reform efforts, it significantly tightened fiscal and monetary policy.
According to IMF estimates, the overall budget deficit remained below 4 percent during 1994. The
Central Bank discount rate has been increased to 250 percent, and a three-month fixed term deposit
has been introduced in the Savings Bank, with a quarterly interest rate of 30 percent.
Notwithstanding the removal of profit margins and elimination of rationed food stuff, inflation fell
dramatically during the second half of 1994, to a monthly average of 4 percent from over 20 percent
a month in the first half of 1994.
10.          The dramatic improvement in the 1994 fiscal position resulted from expenditure
reductions, mainly from eliminating discretionary budgetary transfers to enterprises and sharply
reducing consumer subsidies. In 1993, direct consumer subsidies amounted to around 9 percent of
GDP, mainly for bread, flour, sugar, vegetable oil, residential gas, heating and public transportation.
Direct subsidies were reinforced by sizeable indirect subsidies. Foreign exchange was provided at
preferential rates for grain, sugar, meat, milk and pharmaceutical imports. Energy imports, arranged
mainly through bilateral trade agreements, were also supplied at below world market prices.



-3-I
11.          Prices of bread and flour, while still administered, were sharply raised in September
and November 1994. During 1994, prices for bread and flour were adjusted 30 - 40 fold. Remaining
direct subsidies represented about 4 percent of GDP in 1994. Indirect subsidies remained for
purchasing domestic grain at below international prices through the state order system.
12.          The reduction in direct consumer subsidies in 1994 was accompanied by a monthly
flat allowance of 150 sums to workers, pensioners, students, the unemployed and mothers with young
children. This replaced the previous practice of proportional and frequent wage and pension
increases, which sheltered real wages from inflationary erosion. As a result of the previous
indexation practice, real wages fell only between 5 to 10 percent both in 1993 and 1994. Similarly,
since 1991, pension expenditures had doubled as a proportion of GDP. The new practice is more
progressive and less expensive. The switch from proportional to flat indexation alone is estimated to
reduce pension costs by one third. Furthermore, inflation will rapidly erode the allowance, since it is
fixed in nominal terms, which will result in additional savings over time. Although this represents a
step in the right direction, transfers need to be still better targeted in the future. Social expenditures
including pensions, child allowances, compensation payments, consumer subsidies, and unemployment
benefits, remain large in Uzbekistan - about 19.7 percent of GDP in 1994.
13.          Uzbekistan withdrew from the ruble zone in November 1993 and introduced its
interim currency, the Sum coupon. In the absence of complementary fiscal and monetary measures,
the market value of the sum coupon rapidly depreciated in the first half of 1994. As the Government
continued to maintain an unrealistic official exchange rate, the black market premium on foreign
exchange reached a peak of 10:1 in March 1994. Starting in April 1994, the Government introduced
an interbank weekly foreign exchange auction to determine the exchange rate. The introduction of the
Sum, Uzbekistan's national currency, on July 1, 1994 has been accompanied by a shift away from
expansionary fiscal and monetary policy and by institutional changes in the foreign exchange market.
A dual exchange rate system, which consisted of an auction for non-cash transactions and a
commercial rate for cash transactions, was eliminated in October 1994.
B.    Macroeconomic Stabilization
14.          The Government's stabilization program, supported by an STF arrangement with the
IMF, seeks to reduce inflation to an average 2 percent per month by end 1995. To attain this
objective, the consolidated budget deficit is to be limited to 3.5 percent of GDP during 1995 and
domestic bank financing of the budget is to be limited to 2 percent of GDP. All financial subsidies
will be made explicit and channelled through the budget. Support to enterprises will be limited to
passive restructuring and liquidation and will decline over time. An increasing share of central bank
credit to the commercial banks will be auctioned, reaching 50 percent by the end of June 1995.
Meanwhile, beginning in January 1995, the refinance rate will be adjusted monthly on the basis of
past and targeted inflation.
15.          Under the STF, the Government is committed to maintaining the recent unification of
the exchange rate, substantially expanding the availability of foreign exchange through the inter-bank
foreign exchange market, reducing the surrender requirement, and ensuring current account
convertibility. The auction-determined exchange rate is now used for all foreign exchange
transactions by individuals, enterprises, banks and the Government. Intervention in the foreign
exchange market will be limited to smoothing out sharp fluctuations, rather than attempting to target a
particular exchange rate.



-4-
C.    Structural Reforns
16.           Structural reform is essential to transform Uzbekistan into a market-based economy.
To promote reform, the Government intends to: (i) establish an appropriate incentive framework;
(ii) support continued privatization, passive restructuring and establishment of corporate governance
for enterprises remaining in the public sector; (iii) develop a sound financial system that can channel
funds to private enterprises and facilitate settlement of trade payments; and (iv) strengthen the social
safety net for individuals severely affected by enterprise reform.
Incentive Framework
17.            Uzbekistan's incentive structure is now mainly distorted by indirect subsidies, state
orders on cotton and grain, monopolies and quantitative restrictions on exports. The Government,
after realizing that subsidies had generated unsustainable budgetary pressure, began to implement a
program to eliminate consumer, producer and credit subsidies. In addition, existing import subsidies
on grain, energy products and agricultural inputs will be phased out in 1995 as all trade becomes
channelled through foreign exchange auctions.
18.           For the 1995 crop, state orders on cotton will be reduced to 60 percent of the average
1993-1995 output. Moreover, the procurement price for cotton under state order will be raised to 50
percent of the intemational price (including transport costs). The Government has also agreed to
phase out cotton state orders by 1998.
19.           The Govermment has already made significant progress in reforming universal
consumer subsidies and eliminating direct food subsidies (including, recently, bread and flour). The
Government intends to further accelerate cost recovery for public transport and household utilities so
that the differential between household and industrial tariffs can be narrowed by 50 percent for heat
by mid-1995 and for gas and electricity by end-1995.
20.           For grain, state orders will also be eliminated and procurement prices raised to world
market level during the transition period. The Government agreed to reduce the state order to
50 percent in 1995, 25 percent in 1996 and to completely discontinue state orders on grain by 1997.
The price on grain procured under the state order system will be raised to 50 percent of world prices
(excluding transport costs) in 1995, to 75 percent in 1996. This will bring immediate efficiency gains
and increases in production, and demonstrates the Government's commitment to the new policy.
21.           In order to fulfill inter-republican agreements that are still pending, the Government
will maintain a system of state purchases during 1995. Those state purchases will be carried out
through competitive tendering, with voluntary participation. Initially, purchases for Government
needs may be centralized; ministries and local authorities will gradually shift to do their own
tendering, subject to minimum regulation of procedures.
22.           The Government has started to revise Uzbekistan's trade regime. It wants to align
domestic and world prices of tradable commodities, expand trade, raise fiscal revenues during the
transition, and diminish the role of centralized trade. It has already unified treatment of FSU and
non-FSU trade. Import tariffs have been removed until July 1, 1995 when the Govermment will
consider putting in place a homogenous import tariff structure. The number of goods subject to export
licenses has been reduced from 74 to 11 (including cotton fiber, oil, gas, ferrous and non-ferrous



metals), as of December 31, 1994. Cotton sold through the Commodity Exchange is now exempt
from export licensing. However, the quantities of cotton trade in the Exchange are still very limited.
A 30 percent surrender requirement at the market exchange rate for all exports was introduced in
april 1994. The Government intends to eventually eliminate the surrender requirement.
23.           The Government intends to reduce further the number of items subject to export
licenses, to simplify the procedure of granting cotton export licenses and to start implementing a
system of auctions for export licenses on products other than cotton in 1995. Export licenses have
become an obstacle for increasing exports and for foreign market access to private traders and
farmers. In addition, commodities and goods subject to centralized trade are subject to export quotas.
At present, a single license is granted by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations for each export
contract. The Government has agreed with the Bank to introduce a simplified procedure for granting
cotton export licenses for cotton not sold through the exchange. Under such system, a license will be
granted within 10 days after receipt by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations of a duly
prepared contract, a certificate from the Goskomprognozstat confirning the existence of the free
cotton, and a certificate of origin.
24.           Domestic trade will be demonopolized and opened up to import competition. Rapid
demonopolization followed by privatization of dominant enterprises in the warehousing, wholesale
trade, and road freight transportation sectors, as well as removal of barriers to entry in these sectors
by new private enterprises, are essential to assure the introduction of essential requirement for the
successful operation of a market economy. To achieve this objective, the Government has announced
its commitment to prepare a concrete, detailed and timebound action plan for: (i) the
demonopolization of dominant entities in the warehouse, wholesale trade and transport sectors,
including Uzbeksavdo, Uzautotrans, Uzbekberlyashu and Uznefteproduct; and (ii) the removal of
barriers to entry by new private enterprises in these sectors. Implementation will start by
June 30, 1995.
25.           The Government's anti-monopoly efforts will be conducted by a general Competition
Agency that will not be empowered to control prices. Instead, this agency will monitor monopoly
power, collusion and collective dominance, entry barriers, takeovers and mergers, and a limited
number of vertical trade restraints that restrict access to scarce inputs and distribution outlets. The
Competition Agency will have a clear legal mandate to investigate and break up monopolistic
enterprises and levy heavy fines--an important change, since at present, fines are small and the Price
Setting and Anti-Monopoly Department (PSAD) appears extremely reluctant to impose them. In
certain sectors of the economy (energy, telecommunications, water), however, problems of natural
monopoly will remain and some form of price regulation will be inevitable. To deal with the
administration of these prices, the Government will establish an Office of Public Utility Regulation.
The monitoring of these institutions will be complemented by the demonopolization of trade and the
resulting opening up to import competition.



-6-
Enterprise Reform
26.           The Government has made reforming state owned enterprises (SOEs) a priority.
SOEs absorb a large share of the country's financial resources through their demands on the budget
and the banking system. Uzbekistan now recognizes that growth depends on relatively fast
privatization and isolating large loss makers to improve performance and attract needed foreign
investment. The Government's program for enterprise reforn has evolved in two stages. Stage 1,
which was only started in 1992 and was completed in October 1994, focused on privatization of small
scale objects' and housing. Stage II, introduced by Presidential Decree in January 1994 and
announced in March 1994, was intended to accelerate and broaden privatization and attract foreign
investment.
27.           Stage I. Stage I included privatization of housing and small enterprises, primarily in
consumer trade and services and local industry. State Property Committee (SPC) records show that
by the end of 1994, privatization of over 96 percent of housing (approximately 4.5 million units) had
been accomplished and the privatization process had begun for an estimated 82 percent
(9,634 enterprises) of the total 11,765 enterprises subject to privatization2.
28.           The Stage I privatization program had many shortcomings. Almost all of the
privatization of small scale entities was through direct transfer or sale to staff. Very limited numbers
of small scale enterprises were sold to the public through auctions. While approximately 600 medium
scale enterprises were corporatized, this was done in closed stock form, including share allocation to
the staff and Government, with the Government generally continuing to hold the majority share.
Finally, approximately 400 large scale enterprises were also corporatized (generally closed form) with
the Government holding the majority share. Shares in these enterprises were generally issued only to
labor collectives. Ownership rights in closed companies were not freely transferable. Medium and
large scale enterprises have been reorganized as "concerns" which have tended to continue the
sectors' pyramid structures through cross ownership of SOE shares and allocating management of
state shares to concerns that maintain the same production/sales/distribution chain. While not
excluded, foreign investors have been largely uninvolved, except for tobacco and valuable mineral
and metal extraction. Transfers carried contractual obligations to preserve product and employment
profiles for 3-5 years.
29.           Stage II. Stage II, which began in March 1994, was designed to overcome Stage I's
shortcomings but it fell short of addressing all of the critical issues. Over 40 legislative and
administrative acts were prepared and the Republican Stock Exchange, the National Share Depository
and the National Investment Fund created to implement this second stage of the privatization program.
The Government committed as part of Stage II to privatize all enterprises, except large public utilities
and services relating to defence, security and safety. Stage II also provided for transferring land
rights to new owners, including homeowners and farmers.
'Uzbekistan's privatization program figures refer to "objects" which may include one or more enterprises.
For simplicity, this text uses "objects" and "enterprises" interchangeably.
2The total number of enterprises has been estimated at 18,717. Of these, 6,952 entities (hospitals, schools,
security installations, etc.) have been exempted from privatization.



-7I-
30.           Small Scale Privatization. The first group of small enterprises and assets selected for
Stage II privatization by local authorities consisted of those that had not already been transferred to
staff, which existing staff were not interested in purchasing or which were unfinished construction
projects. These enterprises and assets were being competitively sold through auctions and tenders.
Since March 1994, 450 enterprises or assets have been sold (out of 800 identified) through
approximately 94 auctions.
31.           Large and Mediun Enterprises. In Stage II, most large (over 2,000 employees) and
medium (150-2,000 employees) enterprises are being converted to open stock companies. By the end
of January, 1995, several hundred medium and large-scale enterprises were converted to open joint
stock companies with blocks of shares transferred to employees, the state, the public (through the
Stock Exchange or directly), or foreigners.
32.           Until December 1994, the program granted SPC wide discretion in allotting shares to
each shareholder category. Until they are sold, the SPC is the residual shareholder of shares
designated for sale to the general public and foreigners. Thus far, the Stock Exchange has sold
minority share blocks of approximately 30 firms, primarily to related enterprises. Foreigners can
purchase shares above a certain percentage that varies across sectors. The SPC was simultaneously
equity holder in the Stock Exchange, the National Share Depository and the National Investment Fund
and owner and seller of state property. The National Share Depository was 37.5 percent SPC owned.
The Republican Stock Exchange was 51 percent SPC owned, with the minority held by member
brokers. Until January 1995, the National Investment Fund was 37.5 percent SPC owned.
33.           Joint Venture Privatization. Under Stage II, SPC was to offer foreign investors
majority or entire ownership in about 100 selected enterprises. The state was to retain a majority
interest in some sectors, such as energy and fuel, mining and processing of ferrous metals, precious
and semi-precious stones, and radioactive and rare-earth elements. In these sectors, foreign investors
would be able to participate through minority shareholding or contractual arrangements. This form of
privatization is referred to in Uzbekistan as "joint venture" privatization and more commonly
elsewhere as "case-by-case" privatization, with the Government continuing to exercise a central role
in determining the level of outside ownership. However, the criteria, sequence, and methods for
case-by-case privatization were not defined in Stage II program.
34.           Program for Strengthening Stage II Privatization. While the Stage II
program as outlined by the Government and implemented to date has many positive features,
significant problems remain concerning the program's scope, approach, timing and institutional
arrangements. First, the program did not make clear (i) which enterprises would remain under
majority state ownership, nor (ii) under which timing and method privatization would take place.
Second, the program did not specify targets and had no other means to monitor progress. Third, the
transfer process was slow and followed ad hoc procedures that made prediction and assessment of
privatization difficult. Fourth, the imposition of profile restrictions undermined the quality of
privatization. Fifth, the program lacked clear procedures for transferring shares of medium and
large-scale enterprises.
35.           The Stage II program as it is being implemented fails to meet the Governnent's
objectives in terms of quantitative targets, speed, governance improvements and equity in the
privatization process. These deficiencies can be surmounted only through a privatization program that
is extensive and potentially involves broad participation by the population, i.e. a mass privatization



-8-
program.- SPC share offerings should be public and transparent. Case-by-case discretion should be
eliminated and the general public should be given ample opportunity to participate. Profile
requirements would need to be eliminated in order not to prevent the efficienc) gains resulting from
market incentives. The program's institutional arrangements would also need to be improved through
the divestiture of state ownership in the Republican Stock Exchange, National Share Depository and
National Investment Fund.
36.           The Government has become aware of the need to address the remaining deficiencies
of the privatization program. As a result, the Government recently announced revisions in the
program and has finalized an Action Plan which extends the scope of privatization, improves its
speed, clarifies procedures and expands public participation through allowing the creation of private
investment funds.
37.           The Government has already announced the removal of all existing profile restrictions
(on type of activity and employment) on privatized enterprises and prohibits such profile restrictions
from being included in any privatization contract in the future. A Cabinet of Ministers' Resolution
decreased SPC's ownership position as of January 1, 1995 in the Republican Stock Exchange from
51 percent to 35 percent, in the National Share Depository from 38 to 24 percent and in the National
Investment Fund from 39 to 20 percent. Furthermore, SPC is committed to completely eliminating
its ownership position in the Republican Stock Exchange and National Investment Fund, and reduce
its share in the Share Depository to 10 percent by January 1, 1996.
38.           The Government will guarantee that a minimum of 30 percent of shares ("reserved
shares" currently held by the Government) of medium and large scale enterprises is made available to
newly established private investment funds at their nominal price. The investment funds, in turn, will
issue their own shares to the general public. Regulations on the operation of the investment funds
will be developed to promote widespread public subscription. Investment funds will be able to
exercise their option to purchase reserved shares during a period of time that will be agreed with the
Bank. Unsold shares, out of the 30 percent, will be offered for sale through the stock exchange at the
end of the period. Investment funds will also be allowed, like any other investors, to purchase
additional shares through auction and the stock exchange if they so desire.
39.           The action plan includes specific measures (some of which have already been
taken) to:
(i)    set target dates for enterprises to be corporatized and offered for sale to the public.
Targets for the 1995 program include privatization of 1,796 objects, including 1,494
small scale, 150 medium and 152 large. It is expected that during the course of 1995,
corporatization and segmentation of some medium and large enterprises as well as
demonopolization efforts will yield a much larger number of objects for the program,
in particular in the small-scale category;
(ii)   define the scope and conditions of the initial offering of shares, limiting the control of
the Government and insiders over privatized or corporatized medium and large-scale
3Hereafter mass privatization will refer to a program that is extensive; it may or it may not include a
voucher scheme.



-9-
enterprises as well as opening the capital enterprises already corporatized in a closed
form. The plan will include the following: (a) minimum percentage to be offered for
sale to the general public (51 percent); (b) minimum percentage of the shares to be
offered to investment funds (at least 30 percent of those for sale); (c) maximum
percentage that can be sold to insiders (25 percent); (d) maximum percentage. that the
Government is allowed to retain (26 percent); (e) that the Government and insider
shares together will never exceed 49 percent; (f) investment funds will be able to
either purchase beyond the 30 percent minimum shares or not invest at all, if they so
decide; and (g) remaining state shares will become available for sale to the public;
(iii)   define rules for transparent and competitive tendering of all lead shareholding
positions in medium and large-scale enterprises that will be privatized on a case-by-
case basis;
(iv)   determine the information that needs to be widely circulated to the general public
before selling medium and large-scale SOE shares through the stock exchange. In
addition, ensure that the Ministry of Finance prohibits the public issue of shares
unless an emission prospectus is published in the press;
(v)    provide for all licensed brokerage houses to have equal rights to promote the sale of
shares offered by SPC in the stock exchange;
40.           Important mechanisms, including the pricing mechanism to ensure fast market clearing
when there is excess demand or excess supply for an enterprise's shares, and minimum prudential
regulation for investment funds are being prepared. The revised privatization program, including the
implementation arrangements for the investment funds is expected to be adopted by May 31, 1995.
links Between Enterprise Reform and Financial Sector
41.           Enterprise and financial sector reforms must be jointly addressed because banks are
the major creditors of SOEs and claims on SOEs dominate banks' asset portfolios. Prior to the
adoption of the stabilization program, banks were the main channel for transferring subsidies to SOEs
and taxing depositors, via highly negative real interest rates. Banks in Uzbekistan have directed large
subsidies to the sectors and enterprises selected by the Government without concern for the recipients'
creditworthiness. While most credit to the enterprise sector comes from the banking system, the
progressive decline of the banks' real deposit base has increased their reliance on Central Bank of
Uzbekistan (CBU) financing, further fuelling inflation. CBU refinance credits have been almost
exclusively allocated to the two state owned banks for agriculture and industry; only a small fraction
was left for the small private and joint venture banks.
42.           The stabilization program supported by the IMF, which involves a rapid increase in
interest rates to positive real levels, credit tightening and credit auctions, will significantly affect
SOEs' borrowing from the banking system and banks' access to CBU facilities. The reduction and
eventual elimination of implicit credit subsidies to enterprises will highlight the bad financial condition
of many SOEs, affect cash-flows, and could result in substantially increased enterprise arrears.



-10-
43.           The Government has denied credit and financial assistance to about 600 bankrupt
enterprises and transferred from the banking system to the budget temporary interest rate subsidies to
approximately 1,000 enterprises that produce essential goods and services and that cannot service their
debt obligations to commercial banks under the new interest rate policy. Experimental restructuring
has been started in a few SOEs in the building material sector where performance agreements have
been signed between the Government and management teams to document mutual objectives and
financial obligations.
44.           In January 1995, the Government took important steps to introduce financial discipline
in SOEs and to prevent an increase in commercial banks' doubtful loans. It established a Credit
Bureau at the CBU which will (i) build a data base on aggregate and enterprise level arrears; and
(ii) report on outstanding arrears to major creditors including composition, length of time they have
been overdue, and causes of arrears. The Central Bank will instruct all commercial banks to provide,
in the agreed format, the information on SOE arrears requested by the Credit Bureau. The
Government will issue a sirnilar instruction to all concerned state agencies and organizations (tax
authorities, Goskomprognosztat, Social Fund). The Government has also decided to isolate the 30 to
50 SOEs with the largest arrears and to exclude them from access to commercial bank credit. A
working group with representatives from the Ministry of Finance and CBU has been set up to analyze
and provide recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministers about the enterprises to be isolated from the
banking system. Selection will be based on: (i) high levels of arrears to all creditors (banks,
enterprises, taxes, and workers' unpaid claims); (ii) the level of non-recoverable arrears; (iii) present
and prospective level of losses; and (iv) an overall assessment of the financial and operational viability
of the worst-perforning SOEs.
45.           The Government will then identify, from the SOEs in the isolation exercise, a limited
number of SOEs (a sub-set of 10 to 15 large enterprises with the largest total arrears) and assess their
potential operational and financial viability. Based on these results and using specific criteria to be
developed, liquidation or passive restructuring plans will be prepared for these enterprises. Options
will include full liquidation, closing non-viable components and product lines, spinning-off services
unrelated to the enterprise's core business, divesting the Government's participation in social assets of
those SOEs and rearranging the remaining potentially profitable components into new commercial
entities that would resume relations with the banking sector on fully commercial terms and be
immediately offered for sale under the government's privatization program. The new relative price
structure that will emerge in a market environment might reveal that a large group of SOEs is
financially non-viable.
Poverty Concerns
46.           As has occurred in some other countries of the Former Soviet Union, inaction on
structural reforms in Uzbekistan would lead to economic decline and inevitably will result in a larger
proportion of the population sliding into poverty. Falling output and inflation would adversely affect
the welfare of Uzbekistan's population. Structural reform will be essential to sustained economic
growth, and, thus, support to the start of this reform process is an investment which sets the stage for
reducing future poverty. A degree of hardship is inevitable during the transition from open
unemployment associated with enterprise restructuring and severe fiscal constraints which will hinder
the social protection system and delivery of basic social services. The program being supported by
this operation has been designed with consideration to the need to protect vulnerable groups during
this transition. Other components of the Bank's assistance strategy will ensure and expand access to



- I 1-
basic social services with a significant poverty focus, such as in health and rural water supply and
sanitation.
47.          One major element for protection of the most vulnerable groups is support for
families. Recent changes in social assistance have improved targeting. Assistance to low income
families, introduced pursuant to decree in August 1994 and administered locally has a budgetary
allocation of about one percent of GDP (1.5 billion sum). By October 1994, over 200,000 low
income families were receiving support through the social protection scheme. The system of farnily
allowances has been rationalized to a single benefit linked to the minimum wage.
48.          A second major element of social protection is to reform the pension system without
jeopardizing the benefits going to the most vulnerable pensioners. Given that Uzbekistan's pension
expenditures are too large relative to demographic structure and GDP, almost doubling since 1991 to
about 10 percent in 1994 and forcing a reliance on budget transfers and Central Bank credits, it is
necessary to reform pension benefit rules. To limit entitlement of groups that are less vulnerable,
proposals are being developed to cut benefits to pensioners who continue to work and to reduce the
number of categories entitled to early pensions. In spite of the necessity to decrease benefit levels,
lower benefits will be protected to maintain pensioners on lower benefits above the poverty line. The
Government announced in February 1995 and plans to introduce in June 1995 a revised system for
adjusting pensions whereby the minimum pensions will be protected by adjusting them quarterly
according to changes in consumer prices while other types of pensions will be increased by the fixed
amount determined for the minimum pension, consistent with fiscal constraints.
ll. THE REHABILITATION LOAN
A.    Objectives
49.          The main objectives of the proposed Rehabilitation Loan are to: (i) support the
Government in the design and implementation of its structural reform program; (ii) ease the shortage
of foreign exchange needed to finance critical imports and minimize the negative impact on the level
of economic activity stemming from delay of reform and transition disruption; and (iii) deepen the
existing foreign exchange market to improve private sector access.
50.          In light of the experience of other Bank rehabilitation loans to FSU countries, the
proposed policy package concentrates on key issues with significant up-front action. The core
requirements for the Loan consist of phasing-out of state orders; designing and implementing a
privatization program for medium and large-scale enterprises; initiating the isolation of a selected
group of distressed SOE from the financial sector; and deepening the foreign exchange market.
51.          The policy conditions specified under the proposed Rehabilitation Loan constitute a
subset of the Government's medium term agenda which are outlined in its Letter of Development
Policy (LDP) (Annex 1). Annex 2 presents the policy conditions for Board presentation and
monitorable medium-term actions. The latter are time-bound performance benchmarks that extend
beyond the proposed loan's disbursement period and are included in the LDP. Since the loan is a
one-tranche operation, they have been designed to serve as a continuous evaluation instrument to be
used in the macroeconomic and sectoral dialogue and the Bank's sectoral and subsequent lending
operations in Uzbekistan.



-12-
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
52.          The program supported by the proposed Loan represents a significant effort towards
the implementation of a comprehensive structural reform program. The program provides the
structural underpinnings for macroeconomic stabilization, the policy changes required for successful
transformation to a market based economy, and represents the framework for future Bank operations.
The proposed Loan will also contribute to fill the external financing gap, and create the
macroecornomic conditions to facilitate the success of the reform agenda.
C.    Project Description
53.          The proposed Loan, in an amount of US$160 million, provides foreign exchange to
strengthen the development of Uzbekistan's incipient foreign exchange market. Since the Government
introduced its new currency in July 1994, this component is fundamental to support the development
of an interbank auction market for foreign exchange. It will increase access to foreign exchange by
privatized and commercialized firms that rely on market institutions for their import needs.
54.          Loan proceeds will be channeled by the Ministry of Finance through the Central
Bank's weekly foreign exchange auctions. Interbank weekly foreign exchange auctions were
established in April 1994 and a single unified exchange rate applies to all official and commercial
foreign exchange transactions. A dual exchange rate system, which consisted of an auction for non-
cash transactions and a commercial rate for cash transactions, was eliminated in October 1994. At
present, there are 13 banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. There is a 30 percent surrender
requirement on non-centralized exports. All the proceeds from centralized exports are channelled
through the auctions, as of January 1, 1995.
D.    Implementation Arrangements
55.          The Borrower will be Republic of Uzbekistan as represented by the Ministry of
Finance. The proceeds of the Loan will be channeled to the Central Bank for supplying funds to the
foreign exchange auction market. The Loan will be managed in Uzbekistan by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) which is part of the Department of Coordination of External Economic
Activity (DCEEA) at the Cabinet of Ministers and was established under the Bank's Institution
Building/Technical Assistance Loan (IBL).
56.           The Central Bank will continue holding weekly interbank foreign exchange auctions
to provide funding for importers, and the Customs Committee will monitor imports to support
reimbursement of eligible imports.
57.          The PIU will have main responsibility for implementation and providing the World
Bank with information on the progress on Loan implementation both relating to policy actions and
utilization of loan proceeds. For this purpose, it will: (i) liaise with Central Bank staff to ensure
efficiency in the auction process and progress reporting, and (ii) communicate regularly with the
Customs Committee to ensure imports are recognized by Standard Customs Declaration Forms, and
that goods included in the "Negative List" and other prohibited goods are not included for
reimbursement purposes. PIU staff will also be responsible to furnish periodic reports and to make
arrangements for implementation reviews, and a final project audit of Customs Form presentations
and Central Bank cash auction activities. PIU staff will be available, if needed, to advise importers



-13-
regarding ineligible items, typical procurement procedures. advertising and market search techniques.
and developing appropriate documentation. In order to prepare the PIU to perform the above
functions, additional staff is required. The appointment of two additional qualified PIU staff is a
condition of Board presentation. The Ministry of Finance and Central Bank staff will have primary
responsibility in the budgeting and transferring of funds between two institutions.
58.           The PIU will be responsible for the collection of customs forms from the Customs
Comnmittee, checking them for goods eligibility and consolidating them into the periodic
reimbursement requests. The PIU will also be responsible for reviewing foreign exchange sales data
from the Central Bank in order to monitor the channeling of Loan proceeds to the foreign exchange
market. The PIU will also prepare the withdrawal application for reimbursement requests, including
supporting documentation as indicated in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, and submit them to the
Bank.
59.           The PIU will ensure that adequate provisions have been made within the Central Bank
and accounts of the Borrower's budget to accurately record sales of the proceeds of foreign exchange
provided under the Loan. The PIU will obtain summary statements of these transactions from the
Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance for its reporting and will make them available to World
Bank supervision missions and the project's designated external auditors.
E.    Procurement
60.           As part of the ongoing economic reforms, the Government of Uzbekistan is
considering the development and introduction of the legislative framework and the subsequent
establishment of institutional requirements for public procurement in the country. A Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) has not been prepared, but we are planning to initiate, in
early FY1996, the preparation of a Country Procurement Strategy Paper (CPSP), in lieu of CPAR.
61.           The proposed Loan will finance 100 percent of delivered costs of general imports in
to the Country, except the items contained in the standard negative list (Annex 4). The public and
private enterprises in Uzbekistan generally conclude import contracts through competitive quotations
from different countries and these practices are acceptable for procurement under the proposed
operation. Since Uzbekistan has no customs duties on imported goods, it has no requirement for
preshipment inspection. However, the possibility of introducing the preshipment inspection for
imports will be discussed in the context of CPSP. The PIU will have the oversight responsibility for
procurement under the proposed operation, under the guidance of an expatriate procurement adviser,
retained by PIU under IBTA, particularly on procurement actions under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB).
62.           The imports by the Government Ministries, Public Enterprises and Private Importers
exceeding US $2.0 million per contract will be procured through simplified ICB, except commonly
traded commodities, which will be procured through organized international commodity markets or
through other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank. The standard bidding
documents of the Bank will be used for simplified ICB, in accordance with Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Imports not exceeding US $2.0 million equivalent per contract will be procured in
accordance with standard commercial practices being followed by the Public Sector and private
enterprises.



-14-
F.    Disbursement
63.          The Loan will finance 100 percent of the foreign expenditures on goods imported
from Bank member countries. Contracts denominated in Sums will not be eligible. Loan
disbursement provisions have been designed to facilitate the development of a market-based auction
and to ensure a smooth flow of funds into that market. In addition to the retroactive financing
provisions (para. 65), loan proceeds of up to $16 million per month will be available for disbursement
upon signing of the Loan Agreement. From July 1, 1995 on, up to $20 million per month will be
available for disbursement. The Loan's closing date is June 30, 1996
64.          Import eligible for financing under the Loan are subject to a standard negative list.
Disbursements for imports that are under contracts US$2.0 million each will be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure, based on summaries of Customs certificate data. Such information will
include: certificate number, description of the goods, landed cost, country of origin and date of
Customs clearance. The customs certificates covered by the Statement of Expenditures will be
retained by the Borrower for review by Bank supervision missions and auditors. Disbursement for
imports above US$2 mnillion would need full documentation as described in the Bank's Disbursement
Handbook and specified in the Disbursement Letter.
G.    Retroactive Financing
65.          In view of the progress already made with structural reforms, eligible goods imported
after November 30, 1994 will be eligible for retroactive financing, up to a maximum amount of
US$32 million, equivalent to 20 percent of the Loan amount.
H.    Project Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing
66.          The PIU will establish and maintain a Management Information System (MIS) to track
activities under the foreign exchange auctions and import actions during the designated reporting
period. The Central Bank would report to the PIU on auction transactions and the proceeds of the
Loan it received from the Ministry of Finance; the Customs Committee would provide data on
imports via summaries of its standard customs documents. The information system should also enable
the PIU to determine that only eligible imports are included in the Government's reimbursement
requests. The Borrower will prepare annual statements of all receipts and payments under the Loan.
67.          The PIU will arrange for auditing at the Borrower's expense of the above financial
statements by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Project accounts will be audited in
accordance with the March 1992 "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing Projects Financed
by the World Bank." In the absence of any satisfactory alternative, the audit of the Loan will be
carried out by an international accounting/audit firm. The Bank will receive these audited statements
and audit reports in such scope and detail that it may reasonably request within six months after the
end of each of the Borrower's fiscal years.



-15-
I.     Agreements Reached
68.           Agreements was reached at Negotiations on: (i) the attached Letter of Development
Policy, outlining the Government's reform program and the timing of implementation; (ii) the
functions of the Project Implementation Unit, Ministry of Finance, Central Bank and Customs
Commnittee; (iii) the standard negative list of goods precluded from financing under the proposed loan;
and (iv) accounting and auditing arrangements.
69.           The following measures were implemented prior to Negotiations:
(i)    A Presidential Decree was issued on January 19, 1995, announcing the reduction of
state orders on cotton-fiber to 60 percent of the 1995 output and that on grain to 50
percent of the 1995 crop.
(ii)    A Presidential Decree was issued on February 8, 1995, announcing an increase in the
procurement price for grain and cotton remaining under state order to 50 percent of
world prices for the 1995 crop.
(iii)   Cabinet of Ministers' Resolutions were issued on December 2, 1994 and January 31,
1995, announcing a specific mechanism for the automatic granting of cotton export
licenses.
(iv)   A Cabinet of Ministers' Resolution was issued on February 6, 1995, announcing the
preparation of a detailed and timebound action plan for the (a) demonopolization of
dominant entities in the transport, warehouse and wholesale trade sectors (including
Uzbeksavdo, Uzautotrans, Uzbekberlyashu, Uznefteproduct) and (b) removal of entry
barriers to new private enterprises in these sectors.
(v)    The State Property Comrnittee (SPC) finalized on February 16,1995, a privatization
action-plan specifying: (a) the scope of privatization including number of eligible
enterprises by size and sector, and the minimum and/or maximum percentage of
ownership shares to be offered for sale to staff, the investment funds, and the public
(in the case of medium and large-scale enterprises); (b) the approach to privatization,
including the means, methods and procedures for divestment in each category and the
institutional arrangements. The program includes a mass privatization scheme, using
investment funds acceptable to the Bank, which is capable of promoting speed, equity
and corporate governance in the privatization process; and (c) a timetable for each
element of the plan and each enterprise category, indicating target dates for specific
numbers of enterprises to be corporatized. The SPC has issued Resolution
announcing the content of the program on February 24, 1995.
(vi)   Selection criteria were established to determine which enterprises should stop
receiving new bank credits. Identification of the debt and arrears of the largest 30
users of credit in 1994-95 has been carried out.
(vii)   Operating principles for a pilot scheme for passive restructuring of the largest loss-
makers were announced on February 9,1995.



-16-
(viii)  A Cabinet of Ministers Resolution issued on Februarv 8, 1995 announced a revised
system for adjusting pension benefits under which the minimum pension will be
adjusted quarterly. The Resolution was submitted to the Parliament. It has already
been endorsed by the Economic, Social and Legal Committees of the Parliament.
Parliamentary approval is expected by April/May 1995 when the Parliament resumes
formal sessions.
70.           The following measures were implemented prior to the presentation of the proposed
Loan to the Board:
(i)    An SPC Resolution was issued on February 23, 1995 specifying procedures for
medium and large scale privatization to be conducted through transparent, competitive
sales including rules to govern domestic and international tenders for lead
shareholdings in medium- and large-scale enterprises privatized through a case-by-case
approach.
(ii)    Selection criteria were determined and announced on February 23, 1995 for selecting
enterprises to be put under the proposed pilot restructuring scheme.
(iii)   Two additional staff members have been appointed for the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU).
J.     Environmental Assessment
71.           The project is consistent with Bank policy and follows accepted Bank procedures. In
conformity with Bank policies for adjustment operations, this project has been assigned to Category U
(unrated), which does not require an environmental assessment.
K.    Benefits and Risks
72.           Benefits. The proposed Rehabilitation Loan supports and helps accelerate the
Government's implementation of a comprehensive structural reform program in the transition to a
market-based economy, thus avoiding sustained economic decline which inevitably would have a
negative impact on the poor. The imports to be financed by the Loan will have direct effects on
output and will facilitate the availability of critical imports. The Loan also provides the framework
for donor support, helps supports the national currency, deepens the foreign exchange market while
increasing access to it for the private sector.
73.           Risks. Uzbekistan faces substantial internal and external risks. While recent
developments are encouraging, it is not yet clear how quickly the Government will be able to move to
implement the wide array of policy measures in the programs under discussion with the Bank and the
Fund. Policy slippage on the stabilization and structural reform program may result from: (i) possible
ineffective implementation of key macroeconomic policies critical to the success of the program;
(ii) increases in inter-enterprise arrears that may jeopardize monetary and fiscal targets; (iii) limited
institutional capacity, which makes it difficult to implement complex policy measures that require
coordinating policy decisions by various institutions to achieve comprehensive reform; and (iv) a
possible erosion of popular support caused by declines in output and employment. The policy



-17-
package included in the Rehabilitation Loan supports measures that will help mitigate these risks.
This will be achieved notably by limiting further output declines and implementing an adequate social
protection program.
74.          In addition, Uzbekistan faces external risks: (i) vulnerability to relative price shifts in
the markets for its export commodities -- cotton, energy products and gold, (ii) supplv bottlenecks in
the FSU as some of the traditional import links are broken, and (iii) lack of sufficient external
financing. If Uzbekistan cannot mobilize sufficient external financing in the short term, the economy
will be exposed to a binding foreign-exchange constraint on trade and the country will be forced to
rely more heavily on gold sales to generate foreign exchange and/or to lower imports thus reducing
the growth potential of the economy. Reducing imports will also constrain Uzbekistan's ability to
import capital goods and slow the rate of investment and technological transfer.
L.    Recommendation
75.          1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan will comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the World Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1995
Attachments






Annex i
Page I of 11
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY'
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.    Uzbekistan is undertaking a comprehensive program of economic reform aimed at moving
toward a market-based economy. In addition to key structural reforms and related institutional
building, this program includes measures for financial stabilization and for the strengthening of key
sectors particularly agriculture and energy. In particular, we expect to focus our attention toward
deepening structural reforms, strengthening the domestic currency, implementing sectoral policies and
carrying out a public investment prograrn that will support the development of the private sector.
2.     Uzbekistan has suffered from serious macro-economic instability and output declines since
1991. The decline in output over the period 1991-94 (about 15 percent) has been less than the
average of the rest of the FSU (40 percent). The important factors in cushioning the reduction were
the economy's specialization in agriculture and energy, which are relatively stable sectors, the
strength of Uzbekistan's exports, notably non-ferrous metals and cotton, the diversification away from
FSU trade, and the country's growing oil and gas production.
3.     Both consumption and investment have declined substantially since 1991. Disruption in the
availability of imports particularly hampered manufacturing output, which fell by about 15 percent
over the period 1991-94. The largest drop occurred in the industrial sectors that were most closely
linked to other FSU republics because of the break-up of economic relations and payment
mechanisms. The agriculture sector expanded moderately during 1993-1994. Oil and natural gas
production has also expanded significantly during the last two years (90 and 16 percent, respectively).
4.     We recognize that getting inflation under control is a prerequisite for sustained and efficient
economic growth. Consequently our monetary and fiscal policies give a high priority to financial
stabilization objectives. Inflation came down sharply in the second half of 1994 and the fiscal deficit
declined to about 4 percent of GDP. During 1994, we significantly tightened fiscal policy which has
resulted in a dramatic improvement of our fiscal position. This was due to the elimination of the
enterprise sector's access to the special budgetary transfers which were responsible for a large part of
the fiscal deficit in 1993, and the curtailment of direct budgetary consumer subsidies. In July 1994, a
new domestic currency, the sum, was introduced and monetary and credit policy were made
progressively more restrictive. Preferential credits to enterprises were reduced, and Central Bank
reserve requirements were increased. The discount rate was increased to 225 percent by the end of
1994 and three-month fixed term deposits were introduced at the Saving Bank, with a quarterly
interest rate of 30 percent.
5.     Our stabilization programn, to be supported under the IMF's Systemic Transformation Facility
(STF), is expected to reduce inflation to an average 2 percent per month by the end of 1995. To
attain this objective, the consolidated budget deficit will be limited to 3.5 percent of GDP during 1995
and domestic bank financing of the budget will be limited to 2 percent of GDP. All financial



Annex 1
Page 2 of 1 1
subsidies have been made explicit and channeled through the 1995 budget. Support to enterprises will
be limited to passiv e restructuring and liquidation and wAill decline over time. An increasing share of
Central Banlk credit to commercial banks will be auctioned, reaching 50 percent by the end of June
1995. Beginning in January 1995, the refinance rate is adjusted monthly on the basis of past and
targeted inflation.
6.     We are commnitted to maintaining the unified exchange rate, thus substantially expanding the
availability of foreign exchange through the inter-bank foreign exchange market, and ensuring current
account convertibility. Interbank foreign exchange auctions to determine the exchange rate were
started on April 15, 1994. In recent months, additional progress has been made toward
institutionalizing weekly auctions of foreign exchange. We unified the exchange rate in October
1994, and are committed to maintaining a market-based exchange rate in the future.
The Structural Reform Program
7.     We have embarked on an ambitious program of structural reforms. We have begun to
introduce significant changes in price, subsidy and trade policy in order to establish a market-based
economy increasingly integrated into the world economy. To promote and deepen reforms, we will:
(i) establish an appropriate incentive framework; (ii) support continued privatization, restructuring and
establishment of corporate governance of medium and large scale enterprises; (iii) develop a sound
financial system capable of channeling funds to private enterprises and facilitate settlement of trade
payments; and (iv) strengthen the social safety net. This letter outlines our recent accomplishments
and the additional measures we intend to undertake in 1995 toward these goals.
Price, Subsidy and Trade Policies
8.    In recognition of the unsustainable budgetary pressure generated by subsidies, we have
introduced a program to eliminate consumer, producer and credit subsidies. In addition, existing
import subsidies on grain, energy products and agricultural inputs will be phased out in 1995 as all
trade is channelled through foreign exchange auctions. Complementing progress toward completing
price liberalization, reforming the foreign exchange regime and removing most direct budget subsidies
for consumer goods, we have begun to phase out the state order system.
9.     The principal agency for implementing the state order system was dismantled in March 1994
and has been replaced by Uzoptbirzhetorg, which will initially conduct state procurement and
organize wholesale trading markets and will evolve to purchase only goods needed for the state's own
use. In order to fulfill pending inter-republican trade agreements, we will maintain a system of state
purchases during 1995. Those state purchases will be carried out through competitive tendering, with
voluntary participation. Initially, purchases for government needs may be centralized; ministries and
local authorities will gradually shift to do their own tendering subject to minimum regulation of
procedures. A system of state procurement will be established by April 30, 1995, to make purchases
for central and other branches of government on a contractual basis at minimum cost since such
agency will not make profits nor pay dividends. We will request the World Bank's assistance to
reform the public procurement system and procedures.



Annex I
Page 3 of 11
10.   Industrial and agricultural state orders for all conmmodities except cotton and grain, have been
eliminated. Apart from cotton and grain, state purchases are limited to petrol, diesel coal and a small
number of consumer items, such as salt and vegetable oil for distribution in hospitals and schools.
For the 1995 crop, state orders on cotton will be reduced to 60 percent of the 1995 output and
reduced thereafter in approximately equal installments until elimination in 1998. Moreover, the
procurement price for cotton under state order will be raised to 50 percent of the international price
and will reach world prices by 1998. Since January 1, 1995, the staple foodstuff rationing system has
been completely abolished.
1I.    For grain, state orders will be reduced to 50 percent in 1995, 25 percent in 1996 and
completely eliminated by 1997. Procurement prices for grain will be raised during the transition to
50 percent of world levels in 1995 and to world levels in 1997. This should bring immediate
efficiency gains and increases in production while allowing for a gradual adjustment of prices at the
consumer level. Such a phased reduction of state orders will prevent a negative shock to the budget
and allow time for establishing a system of agricultural taxation, and for cost recovery of agricultural
inputs. We will revise by June 30, 1995, and start implementing by end of the year, an agricultural
taxation system equitable with other sectors which would eliminate the need for state orders or the
imposition of explicit export taxes, notably on cotton. In addition, we will introduce water charges
on irrigation by December 31, 1995, which can be expected to cover at least 50 percent operating
costs.
12.    We have started to revise Uzbekistan's trade regime, to align domestic and world prices of
tradable commodities, expand trade, raise fiscal revenues during the transition, and diminish the role
of centralized trade. We have already unified treatment of FSU and non-FSU trade. Import tariffs
have been removed until July 1, 1995, when we will consider a uniform import tariff structure. The
number of goods subject to export licenses has been reduced from 74 to 11, as of December 1994. In
addition, the tax on foreign exchange proceeds and the surrender requirement at the official exchange
rate were removed. Instead a 30 percent surrender requirement at the market exchange rate for all
exports (including centralized trade) was introduced. We intend to eventually eliminate the surrender
requirement in order to ensure current account convertibility.
13.    We intend to further reduce the number of items subject to export licensing in 1995. Cotton
sold through the commodity exchange is exempt from export licensing. For cotton not sold through
the exchange, we have introduced a simplified procedure for granting cotton export licenses, under
which a license is granted within 10 days after receipt by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
of a duly prepared contract, a certificate from the Goskomprognozstat confirming the existence of the
free cotton, and a certificate of origin. We also intend to begin implementing a system of auctions
for export licenses on products other than cotton by June, 1995.
14.    We recognize the need to increase prices for crude oil to provide incentives for oil
production, and intends to raise (as reflected in the program supported by the STF) the wholesale
price for oil to at least 75 percent of the world price by March 31, 1995, and to 100 percent of the
world price by October 1, 1995. Simultaneously, we will put in place a suitable fiscal scheme for
capturing additional profits which will accrue to oil producers from these price increases. We also
plan to raise wholesale prices of petroleum products to world prices in line with the increase in crude
oil prices.



Annex I
Pat2e 4 of 11
15.    We recognize that a realistic pricing structure which reflects the true economic cost of supply
is the most effective means of providing incentives to consumers to use energy efficiently. At
present, prices of electricity, natural gas, heat and hot water to end-users do not reflect the economic
costs of supply. We have taken measures to raise prices to industrial users substantially, although in
many cases even these remain below economic cost. Prices to residential users are far below those to
industrial users, even though the economics of energy supply mean that residential users should pay
several times the tariff charged to large industrial consumers.
16.    While recognizing the urgency of energy price reform, we are of the view that an immediate
increase of energy prices to residential consumers to economic levels would place an insupportable
burden on family budgets at a time of economic stringency. Therefore, as a first step we intend to
reduce the differential between the prices charged to industry and to households for heating by
50 percent by June 30, 1995 and for electricity and gas by 25 percent by July 1, 1995 and by another
25 percent by December 31, 1995. We intend to eliminate all of these differentials by 2000. Energy
prices for industrial consumption are expected to at least remain constant in real terms during this
period, and utilities will be permitted to pass on costs in energy inputs (natural gas, oil and coal) to
industrial consumers. During 1995 we intend to carry out, with financing from international donors,
studies to establish economically efficient tariff systems for network energy utilities (electricity,
natural gas and heating), and the recommendations of these studies will be implemented in a phased
manner from June 1996 onward.
17.    Rapid demonopolization, followed by privatization, of dominant enterprises in the
warehousing, wholesale trade and road freight transportation sectors, as well as removal of barriers to
entry in these sectors by new private enterprises, are essential to assure the introduction of
competition. To achieve this objective, we have announced on February 8, 1995, through a Cabinet
of Ministers' Resolution, its commitment to prepare a concrete, detailed and timebound action plan
for: (i) the demonopolization of dominant entities in the warehouse, wholesale trade and transport
sectors, including Uzbeksavdo, Uzautotrans, Uzbekberlyashu and Uznefteproduct; and (ii) the
removal of barriers to entry for new private enterprises in these sectors. The action plan will be
submitted to the Bank, for review and comments, no later than March 31, 1995, and implementation
will start by June 30, 1995.
18.    Our anti-monopoly actions will be implemented by a general Competition Agency that will not
be empowered to control prices. Instead, this agency will monitor monopoly power, collusion and
collective dominance, entry barriers, takeovers and mergers and a limited number of vertical trade
restraints that restrict access to scarce inputs and distribution outlets. The Competition Agency will
have a clear legal mandate to investigate and break up monopolistic enterprises and levy heavy fines-
an important change, since at present, fines are small. In certain sectors of the economy (energy,
telecommunications, water), however, natural monopolies will remain and some form of price
regulation will be inevitable. The antimonopoly law will be amended by June 30, 1995 to establish
new institutional arrangements described above and to set criteria for anti-competitive behavior and
corresponding sanctions.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 11
Enterprise Reform and Privatization
19.   In 1992, we began to implement an economic reform program designed to establish a
competitive market economy. To this end, we have designed and introduced a number of structural
reforms and enacted laws and created new institutions to implement them. Our enterprise reform
policy has evolved in stages toward broader, deeper and quicker organizational and ownership
transformnation. The program through 1994, has focused primarily on housing and small scale
privatization of retail shops, trade and service enterprises. To date, over 96 percent of the housing has
been privatized and approximately 82 percent of the privatization of the targeted small scale objects
(one or more enterprises) has begun.
20.   In 1994, we introduced significant new measures to expand reforms to medium and large
enterprises and to introduce increased competition and openness in the transfer processes. Originally,
the formns of privatization had been limited to closed companies and transfers to staff. In January
1994, a decree was issued requiring transformation of established joint-stock companies into open-end
companies. Privatized enterprises were often subject to profile restrictions that limited the desired
reallocation of resources. Until March, 1994, there was little opportunity for the public to participate.
There were no uniform criteria for allocation of shares among workers, the state and the public and
the state retained a significant percentage in the authorized capital of enterprises. The absence of
rules for tendering shares for large enterprise created delays and a lack of transparency and
predictability. The dominant role of the State in the Stock Exchange, Investment Fund and National
Depository have held back capital market development.
21.    A new Privatization Program was issued in March, complemented by over 40 legislative and
administrative acts. Since March, progress has been substantial. Over 94 competitive auctions have
been held resulting in over 450 sales. Over 200 medium and large enterprises have been converted to
corporations with registered, transferable shares eligible for sale on the stock exchange. A Real Estate
Exchange was established. A National Share Depository was created and became active in registering
the shares of the newly formed corporations. Two investment funds were created. The Stock
Exchange has begun to function and several auctions have taken place.
22.   In November 1994 we removed profile restrictions on privatized objects, decided to reduce
state ownership to a minority equity position in the objects subject to privatization and in the
enterprises that have gone through the privatization process, in the Stock Exchange, Investment Fund,
and the National Depository. We also confirmed equal access by brokers to securities operations in
the Stock Exchange. We will intensify reforms during 1995, as reflected in the Action Plan, the
major aspects of which include:
(i)    development of specific targets for corporatization and privatization of medium and
large enterprises (categorized by employment); the targets will include specification of
the methods of privatization (i.e., whether auction of assets, "free sale" of shares
through the stock exchange, case-by-case sales to lead shareholders or strategic
buyers);
(ii)    development and publication of rules for speedy corporatization, registration and
allocation of shares in enterprises, such rules to provide that:



Annex 1
Page 6 of 11
(a)    the workers' are to receive up to 25 percent and the state may retain up to
26 percent of the shares of any one enterprise, with the additional rule that the
maximum percentages will not be applied simultaneously in any one case, so
that in no case will the combined worker/state equity percentage exceed
49 percent; and the 51 percent will go for free sale. Provisions will be made
for future sales of state holdings;
(b)    at least 30 percent of the shares of each corporatized enterprise in the
privatization program will be made available for sale to privately owned
investment funds.
(iii)   development and announcement of rules for transparent and competitive tendering of
all lead shareholding positions (strategic investors) in medium and large enterprises
that will be privatized on a case-by-case basis;
(iv)    establishment of rules for infornation that must be provided to the public in
connection with share sales through the stock exchange and rules to require that such
information, as well as announcement of the offering, is made public prior to sale;
(v)    establishment of pricing and mechanisms for shares to ensure fast market clearing,
whether in conditions of excess supply or demand;
(vi)   development and issuance of prudential regulation for investment funds; and
(vii)   elimination of the state's equity in the stock exchange and the National Fund and
reduction to 10 percent its equity in the National Depository.
Links between Enterprise and Financial Sector Reformns
23.    We are aware that without stricter financial discipline in the enterprise and banking sectors,
the stabilization program will not be sustainable. Similarly, we believe that financial discipline can
only be imposed if actions are accompanied by mutually reinforcing structural reformns adopted over
the medium term. The latter includes as essential components: faster privatization of enterprises; the
rapid liquidation of non-viable SOEs and the operational and financial restructuring of loss-making but
viable enterprises. The latter group includes enterprises which will be restructured either prior to
their privatization but without new investment or, for those enterprises which will remain in the
domain of public sector, as part of the public sector reforms directed at stopping the drain of
budgetary resources.
24.    Our stabilization program, which involves rapid increase in interest rates to positive real
levels, credit tightening and credit auctions, will significantly affect SOEs' borrowing from the
banking system and banks' access to CBU facilities. The reduction and eventual elimination of
implicit credit subsidies to enterprises will highlight the bad financial condition of many SOEs, affect
cash-flows, and increase enterprise arrears very substantially (i.e. tax arrears, social security arrears,
inter-enterprises arrears, arrears to banks, workers and other creditors). As a temporary measure, we
will have to subsidize, directly from the budget, a number of enterprises which, although being
financially viable and solvent, are unable to afford the new, much higher interest rates. These
temporary transparent subsidies will be phased out as essentially sound enterprises are restructured.
We are aware that such policies need to be very selective and of limited duration to preclude the
misallocation of public funds.



Annex 1
Page 7 of 11
25.    Enterprise debt and bank restructuring must be jointly addressed because banks are the major
creditors of SOEs and claims on SOEs dominate commercial banks' asset portfolios. Prior to the
adoption of the stabilization program, banks were the main channel for transferring subsidies to SOEs
and taxing depositors, via highly negative real interest rates. Banks in Uzbekistan have directed large
subsidies to the sectors and enterprises selected by the government without concern for their
creditworthiness. While most credit to enterprises comes from the banks, the progressive decline of
the real deposit base has increased their reliance on CBU financing. In the process not only inflation
has been exacerbated but also the direction of credit has crowded out bank financing for the private
sector.
26.    We have already taken important steps to introduce financial discipline in SOEs and to
prevent an increase in commercial banks' doubtful loans. Specifically, we have: (i) collected initial
data on SOE arrears, (ii) denied credit and financial assistance to about 600 bankrupt enterprises (iii)
transferred from the banking system to the budget temporary interest rate subsidies to approximately
1,000 enterprises that produce essential goods and services and that cannot service their debt
obligations to commercial banks under the new interest rate policy, and (iv) established a working
group with representatives from MOF and Central Bank to develop further recommendations.
Finally, experimental restructuring has been started in a few SOEs in the building material sector,
where performance agreements have been signed between the government and management teams that
document mutual objectives and financial obligations.
27.    To further impose financial discipline, we will select the largest non-performing SOEs and
exclude approximately 30-50 with the largest amount of arrears from access to commercial bank
credit. Selection will be based on: (i) high levels of arrears with all creditors (banks, enterprises,
taxes, and workers' unpaid claims); (ii) the level of non-recoverable arrears; (iii) present and
prospective level of losses; and (iv) an overall assessment of the financial and operational viability of
the worst-performing SOEs. Selection will be based on: (i) high levels of arrears with all creditors
(banks, enterprises, taxes, and workers' unpaid claims); (ii) the level of non-recoverable arrears;
(iii) present and prospective level of losses; and (iv) an overall assessment of the financial and
operational viability of the worst-performing SOEs.
28.    From the SOEs in the isolation exercise, we will select a limited number of SOEs with the
largest total arrears (a sub-set of 10-15 enterprises) and assess their potential operational and financial
viability. Based on these results, liquidation or passive restructuring plans will be prepared. Options
will include: closing non-viable components and product lines; spinning-off services unrelated to the
enterprise's core business; divesting the Government's participation in social assets of those SOEs;
and rearranging the remaining potentially profitable components into new commercial entities that
would resume relations with the banking sector on fully commercial terms. These could then be
immediately offered for sale under the government's privatization program.
29.    To implement the above program, we have established a Credit Bureau at the Central Bank.
The Credit Bureau will: (i) build a database on aggregate and enterprise level arrears; (ii) report on
outstanding arrears to major creditors --particularly banks-- including at least for how long they have
been overdue and type of currency; and (iii) provide information, analysis and recommendations to
the Cabinet of Ministers to inform their credit and restructuring decisions. The Central Bank will
instruct all commercial banks to provide, in the agreed format with the World Bank, the information



Annex 1
Pace 8 of 11
on SOE arrears requested by the Credit Bureau. We will issue a similar instruction to all concerned
state agencies and organizations (tax authorities, Goskomprognosztat, Social Fund ). By
February 1, 1995, the Credit Bureau has generated data on debt arrears for at least the largest
30 credit users during 1994. We have agreed with the Bank on specific criteria for selecting non-
commercially bankable SOEs to be isolated from new commercial bank credit and we will agree on
specific criteria for selecting a subset of enterprises to participate in a passive future restructuring
scheme.
30.    Finally, in order to assist and new private enterprises in their restructuring decisions we
intend to design a post-privatization financing facility by mid-1995 and link it to the provision of
credit by qualified financial intermediaries. Implementation will be expected to follow on a reduced
number of enterprises.
Bankdng Sector Reform
31.    We initiated the establishment of a two-tier banking system, but we are aware of the need to
prepare a broader financial sector strategy including a bank restructuring program concomitant with
the reforms being undertaken in the enterprise sector. We are committed to strengthening the banking
sector, enhancing competition and expanding the market share of non-State banks.
32.    Banking reform comprises the development of Uzbekistan's financial infrastructure and a set
of institution building measures. We are prepared to develop the legal framework required for the
safe and sound operation of financial intermediaries. The latter includes the drafting, issuance and
implementation of an ambitious legal agenda which includes a new CBU Law (as agreed with the
IMF, Parliament will promulgate this Law before June, 1995), a Law on Banks and Banking, and the
amendment or drafting of new legislation on secured lending, collateral and bankruptcy, giving banks
the incentives and protection for collecting and granting loans in a safer environment. The CBU is
committed to continuing implementation of a new accounting system and to increase the disclosure of
the banks' financial data. With World Bank assistance, the CBU will carry out diagnostic studies of
the three major banks, continue its efforts to modernize the payment system and improve CBU's
capabilities to regulate and supervise financial intermediaries. Attention will be paid to the drafting of
a Licensing Manual, On site and Off Site Supervision Manuals and Guidelines, the adoption of risk-
based loan portfolio classification and provisioning systems. Significant attention will be given to the
training of CBU staff in this area and to the training of commercial bankers, accountants and auditors.
33.   We are aware of the needs to strengthen not only the CBU, but also the State banks. To that
effect we are undertaking a program to audit their loan portfolios and draft action plans to address
their main organizational, operational and financial weaknesses. We will need to rely on technical
assistance and external financial support to foster the development of the financial sector and enhance
its capacity to mobilize and allocate in a more efficient manner the country's financial savings.



Annex 1
Page 9 of 11
Private Sector Development
34.    We recognize that the foundation of a successful transition is the development of an
environment which encourages the private sector, both new private enterprises and privatized state
property. Specifically, such an environment exists when there is recognition, protection and
encouragement for private parties to acquire, use, transfer and leverage property, without legal or
bureaucratic interference. In creating a favorable environment, we will be guided by the following
principles:
(i)    private persons and enterprises will be free and secure to take all actions in their
economic interest which are not specifically and clearly prohibited by published laws,
without the need to refer to or seek the approval of state or municipal administration;
where administration is specified by law, procedures will be clear, the guiding
principle being facilitation, not ex ante prevention or discretionary approval; and
(ii)    the allocation of property rights among different parties, including owners (whether
state or private), creditors and debtors,shall be without preference to the state or
entities with state ownership; and allocation of rights shall be clear and predictable;
and
(iii)   foreign investors will be encouraged by clear, administratively predictable rules and
legal assurances which will make Uzbekistan competitive with other nations seeking
investment.
35.    To implement the above principles, a decree "On Initiation and Encouragement of Private
Entrepreneurship" was issued on January 5, 1995 which provides equal rights for the private sector
and SOEs. The decree also provides tax incentives to entrepreneurs, allows for the sale of houses and
land on which they are located to foreign legal entities and private individuals, and additional
measures to promote private sector development.
36.    Any remaining restrictions on the transfer of housing will be eliminated in 1995. The use and
easy transfer of land under commercial establishments will be permitted and included in the
privatization program in 1995. In 1995, we will design and begin to implement a program for long
term lease of land. Accessible registries for companies, shares, land and mortgages are being
established and will be strengthened in 1995.
37.    A bankruptcy law to improve the clarity of property rights and facilitate easy and quick
transfer and use of property to secure credit and establish creditors' rights in property has been
prepared and approved by the Parliament in September 1994. We have issued a decree in January
1995 to remove the bias against private property, preferences for state property, and facilitate private
contracts. The Civil Code will be duly amended to reflect these changes. Provisions to be used as
collateral for all types of property (movables, immovable and intangibles) will be provided.
38.    The Law on Foreign Investments and Guarantees for Activities by Foreign Investors" enacted
in May 1994 provides investment guarantees in accordance with generally accepted norms, creates
foreseeable conditions for repatriation of capital, profit, salaries, interest, license fees and necessary
licenses for entry, operations and exit. Any additional regulations necessary to achieve these
guarantees and conditions will be issued in 1995. We recognize the importance of creating a suitable



Annex 1
Page 1O of 11
legal framework for the energy sector. Priority has been given to drafting a Petroleum Law, which
will also assist in attracting foreign investment for petroleum exploration and production.
Social Protection
39.   We face significant challenges in adjusting the system of social protection inherited from the
Soviet Union, and ensuring access and delivery of basic social services to the population. Falling real
wages throughout most sectors of the economy have imposed pressure on living standards. Assistance
to the poor has been limited despite high overall levels of social expenditure. As enterprises and
collective farms shed the burden of social service financing and provision, such responsibilities will
fall increasingly upon local authorities that may lack the necessary financial and administrative
capacity. Such developments would aggravate an already serious poverty problem, especially in the
context of fast population and labor force growth, high inflation, falling output and worsening fiscal
constraints.
40.    We are aware that implementation of the ongoing reform program will result in higher
unemployment. While the pace of labor shedding to date has been slow, we have put in place a
framework for dealing with rising unemployment through the introduction of unemployment benefits,
establishment of the Employment Service, and the creation of the Employment Fund to finance
unemployment benefits and training, and creation of new jobs.
41.   In order to adjust the system of social protection and social services in ways that are
consistent with the shift towards a market-oriented economy, we plan to improve targeting in the
system of social protection. This is particularly important given the significant reductions in universal
subsidies on consumer goods and services. Given the difficulties related to reduction of benefits for
various categories of the population, we are pursuing alternative targeting approaches. Assistance for
low income families, introduced in late 1994 and administered by local authorities will be monitored
so as to ensure that the neediest families are receiving support and budgetary allocations are adequate
across localities . Likewise, family allowances have been simplified and increased in real terms. We
are planning to review the role of family allowances as an instrument for assistance to low-income
families, with the intent to strengthen the role of local low income assistance program.
42.   We recognize the need to address large and rising expenditure on pensions, which exceed
what would be expected given Uzbekistan's level of national income and demographic structure. The
1995 budget provides for the reduction of the budget transfers to the Social Insurance Fund that had
occurred during 1994. At the same time, we will give priority to protecting the real benefits of
elderly people receiving the minimum benefit. We will prepare and introduce in June 1995 a revised
system for indexing pensions whereby the minimum pensions will be protected by adjusting them
quarterly according to the changes in consumer prices and other types of pensions will be increased
by the fixed amount determined for the minimum pension. Further measures that would increase the
effectiveness and fairness of the pension system will be implemented in 1995, including reduced
benefits for working pensioners, reassessment of the occupational categories entitled to early
retirement, expansion of the payroll tax base to include enterprises outside the state sector and
reduction of administrative costs related to pensions delivery.



Annex I
Page II of 11
43.   To support the program of economic reform laid out in this letter and the country's balance of
payments needs, the Government of Uzbekistan requests a Rehabilitation Loan from the World Bank
in an amount of US$160 million.
Sincerely yours.
Bakhtiyar Hamidov
Deputy Prime Minister
Republic of Uzbekistan
February 16, 1995.



Ann11ex 2
ligC I Of 7
UZBEKISTAN
REIIABILITATION LOAN - POLICY CONDITIONS
Objectives                 Actions Already                 Fulfilled Before Board                    Medium Term                      Institution;d
Taken                          Presentation                             Actions                      Requireuniciuw
A. INCENTIVE                Uzconlractorg has been          Reduction in the state order on cotton                                      Cabinet of Ministcrs
STRUCTURE                   dismantled by Decree            to 60 percent for the 1995 crop was                                         Resolutions.
1. State Orders             (March 1, 1994).                announced on Jan. 19, 1995* by
Phase out state order                                       Presidential Decree.
system.                     Uzoptbirzhelong has been                                              Establish a system of state           Technical Assisuiiu&c
created to: (i) temporarily     Increase in the procurement prices    procurement by competitive tender of from the Bank w ill hc
conduct state procurement, and   for cotton remaining under state     basic goods and services for state   souighit to reformin the
(ii) organize wholesale trading   orders to 50 percent of world prices   needs (hospitals, army, etc.) by   procureinent sysCtlT ;11(1
markets.                        for the 1995 crop was announced on   April 30, 1995.                        proceduires.
February 8, 1995 by Presidential
State order on cotton for 1994    Decree.
crop and on grain for 1995 crop
have been reduced from 75 to                                          By June 30, 1995 develop a plan, to  D)ecrec/('abinct ol
67 percent.                     Reduction in the state order on grain  be agreed with the Bank, to phase out Ministers Resolutimv   |
to 50 percent for the 1995 crop was   the wedge between procurement and(l
State orders (except cotton and   announced on Jan.19, 1995* by       world prices for grain and cotton
grain) have been eliminated by   Presidential Decree.                 subject to state orders within the next
Presidential decree from August                                       two and three years, respectively.
22, 1994 (including meat,
poultry and milk).              Increase in the procurement price for  Reduce state order on grain to 25
grain remaining under state order to   percent for the 1996 crop.
50 percent of world prices for the
1995 crop was announced on
February 8, 1995 by Presidential
Decree.                              Eliminate the state order on grain by
1997 and the state order on cotton by
1998.
*Denote actions fulfilled for IMF's Board approval of STF.



Amiex 2
Pa;wc 2 of 7
Objectives                Actions Already                 Fulfilled Before Board                   Medium Term                      i1stimitional
Taken                          Presentation                           Actions                      Rcqm i emcnts
2. Trade                   Tax on foreign exchange         A specific mechanism for the         Start implementing agreed auction
Diminish role of           proceeds removed on             automatic granting of cotton export   mechanism for export licensing by
centralized exports and    April 11, 1994, by Presidential  licenses acceptable to the Bank, was  June 30, 1995.
imports and implicit tax   Decree.                         announced on January 31, 1995
distortion.                                                through a Cabinet of Ministers'      By June 30, 1995, develop an         Ministry of Finance
Number of goods subject to     Resolution.                          agricultural taxation system,        (MOF), Ministry of
export licensing reduced (11                                        acceptable to the Bank, whichi woul(d  IForeign Fconomic
goods remain).                                                      eliminate need for state orders or   Rtelations (M FUR), and
export taxes, notably on cotton. Start Goskomprogno7stlat
Import duties were abolished in                                     implementing by December 31,         (implementation).
Feb. 1994 until July 1, 1995.                                        1995.
Responsibility for customs
control transferred to Taxation
Committee.
Improve access and
allocation of foreign      New currency introduced (Sum
exchange.                  in July 1994).
Organized forex market.
A weekly auction mechanism
established on April 15, 1994.
A dual exchange rate system
has been implemented from
April - September 1994. In
October the system was unified.
Overall surrender requirements
to interbank foreign exchange
auctions increased to 30 percent
of forex receipts, extended to
centralized exports and to be                                                                             Central Bank
channelled through the auction                                                                            (inpleni;tti(0
as of Nov.15, 1994. As of
January 1, 1995 100% of
centralized export proceeds are
to be channeled through the
auction.
Authorized banks and dealers
increased to thirteen.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
Objectives                Actions Already                 Fulfilled Before Board                   Medium Term                     Institutional
Taken                          Presentation                           Actions                      Requiirements
3. Subsidies               Direct food subsidies have been                                      Reduce the differential between      Cabinet of Minister's
Eliminate subsidies that   recently removed and price                                           household tariffs and industrial tariffs  Resolution /MOF
have distortionary effect on  controls eliminated, except for                                  for heat by 50 percent by June 30,   implementation.
the incentive structure.   administered prices for bread                                        1995, for gas and electricity by 25
and flour.                                                          percent by July 1, 1995 and by
another 25 percent by Dec. 31, 1995. Technical Assistance
Rationing of staple food stuff                                                                           needed on energy pricing
has been eliminated.                                                                                     and tariff structures.
Full pass-through on industrial                                                                          Ministry of l'inance
tariffs for gas, electricity and                                                                         (implementation)
heat has been implemented.
4. Antimonopolv Policy
Promote competition in     Antimonopoly law enacted in    A Cabinet of Minister's Resolution    Submit to the Bank for review by     Technical assistance
wholesale and retail trade    1992.                        was issued on February 6, 1995       April 1,1995, the action plan for   required to prepare the
and related storage and                                    announcing the preparation of a      demonopolization and removal of      action plan and revise
transport services.        Department of Implementation   detailed and timebound action plan    barriers to entry in the warehousing,  antimonopoly law.
of Antimonopoly and Price      for the (i) demonopolization of      wholesale trade and transport sectors.
Policy established within the  dominant entities in the transport,    Implementation to start by         Establish by decree, an
Improve control over abuse  MOF.                           warehouse and wholesale trade        June 30, 1995.                       independent Competition
of monopoly power.                                         sectors (including Uzbeksavdo,                                            Authority and Office of
Uzbeksavdo (largest trade      Uzautotrans, Uzbekberlyashu,         Amend antimonopoly law by            Utility Regulation.
monopoly) has privatized about  Uznefteproduct), and (ii) removal of  June 30, 1995 to: establish an
11,000 trade and retail outlets.  barriers to entry by new private  independent competition authority,
enterprises in these sectors. (The   regulate natural monopolies, establish
Action Plan to be prepared by       an office of Utility Regulation; and
March 31, 1995.                     set criteria for anti-competitive
behavior and corresponding sanctions.
Liberalize entry iito auto freight
transport by March 31, 1995, by
replacing licensing with registration
requirement.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
Objectives                 Actions Already                 Fulfilled Before Board                    Medium Term                     Institutional
Taken                          Presentation                            Actions                       Requirements
B. ENTERPRISE
REFORM
1. Privatization           January 21, 1994 Presidential    The State Property Committee (SPC), Design, approve and announce           Cabinet of Ministers' ani(
Develop a coherent,         Decree calls for measures to    prepared and announced an action-    detailed, time-bound implementation   State Property
consistent privatization    broaden privatization, including  plan acceptable to the Bank         arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, Cotnmitice Resolitions
program aiming at broad    participation of private         specifying:*                         for the mass privatization scheme
participation and a         individuals, the purchase of land                                     using investment funds by May 31,
primarily private, non-     where enterprises are located,    (1) the scope of privatization:     1995.**                              Substantial strem!ethening
monopolistic economy.       and the creation of a stock     number by size and sector; and the                                         and training of SP'
exchange.                       minimum and /or maximum                                                    (foreign partner scarch/
percentage of ownership to be offered                                      negotiation,
Over the last 24 months, regular for sale to staff, the investment                                         auction/bidding
privatization has begun,        funds, and the public, for medium                                          procedures, new
involving about 10,000 SOEs    and large scale enterprises;                                                privatization tcchnbiqiies,
(mostly small to medium sizes),                                                                            regulatory framework for
mainly through transfers to their (2) the approach for privatization,                                      investmcnt funds).
staff.                          including the means, methods and
procedures for divestment in each                                          I)evelop skills and
1993 Resolutions of the Cabinet  category and the institutional                                            procedures for rccnikt
of Ministers urged rapid        arrangements. Such action includes a                                       created Stock Fxch.lu,,c
privatization.                  privatization scheme, using                                                with specialized  exterial
investment funds, able to promote                                          assistance.
Auctions of state assets and    speed, equity and corporate
small enterprises have begun in  governance in the privatization
March 1994.                     process; and
Privatization proceeds          (3) a timetable for each element of
transferred to the central budget the plan and each enterprise category,
in August, 1994.                indicating dates for specific numbers
of enterprises to be corporatized.
*       Denote actions fulfilled for IMF's Board approval of STF.
**      Denote structural benchmarks of IMF's STF.



Annex 2
I'age 5 of 7
Objectives                  Actions Already                  Fulfilled Before Board                     Medium Tern                       Institutional
Taken                           Presentation                              Actions                       Rc(1uirinccwlS_*_l
Privatization (continued)                                     The SPC issued on February 24,         Prepare a comprehensive legislative
1995. Additional procedures for       and institutional framework for open,
Remove privatization        Business profile restraints have   medium and large scale privatizations  transparent process in the initial andl
constraints in order to      been removed.                    to be conducted through transparent,  secondary offerings of enterprise
promote equity and                                            competitive sales; including rules to   shares, other securities and debt
efficiency.                                                   govern domestic and international      instruments, including independent
tenders for lead shareholdings in     share clearing facilities and share
On January 5, 1995 a             medium- and large-scale enterprises   registry and depositories by June 30,
Presidential Decree was issued   privatized through a case-by-case      1995.
to strongly support Private      approach.
Sector Development.
2. Governance of State-
Owned Enterprises
(SOEs)
Clarify ownership, property  All State property has been                                             By June 30, 1995**, transform  50
and management rights of   clearly identified as Republican                                          percent of closed medium and large-   Strengtlicn calacity (    l
SOEs. Separate SOE's         or Municipal Property.                                                  scale SOEs into open joint stock       State Privatization
ownership and management                                                                             company form. Shares to be             Conimuiltce (SP'()
functions; establish         Presidential Decree of Jan. 1994                                        registered at the Ministry of Finance   throuighi tecinical
conmmercial objectives and   provides for (i) Concerns to be                                         and fully transferable.                assistance to iniplenp wri!
permit management            dissolved or changed into                                                                                      corporatIatitio          l
autonomy while holding it   Associations; (ii) Closed
accountable for meeting     companies to be transformed                                                                                     Technical assi stalclc
commercial objectives        into open companies.                                                                                          niecdc(l in dlvelol)iTw
according to market-based                                                                                                                   complnly law, and t,,
performance criteria.        The process of registration of                                                                                 assist in financial
shares of open joint-stock                                                                                     report1ing of S01's
companies at the Ministry of                                                                                   accordine v) intern;i
Finance formed as of October                                                                                   accotinting stand(r(k
1, 1994 has been completed.
*       Denote actions fulfilled for IMF's Board approval of STF.
**      Denote structural benchmarks of IMF's STF.



Anicx )
P:age 6 (i 7
Objectives                 Actions Already                   Fulfilled Before Board                    Medium Terin                      Inst initi,u:ll
Taken                           Presentation                             Actions                        Rcquiie1nww,
Governance of State-                                          Methods to improve financial
Owned Enterprises                                             discipline of enterprises, including
(continued)                  1991 and 1992 Resolutions        the operating principles of a pilot   Select a group of enterprises among     abhinet of Nlini,t s'
broadly define relations between  scheme for passive restructuring of    the largest loss-makers to participate   Resolution
Impose discipline on the    Concerns and SOEs.               the largest loss-makers have been      in the pilot restructuring scheme hy
use and flow of financial                                     established.**                        June 30, 1995.                         ('Central Banl< Ni TTr\
resources to enterprises,   August 1993 Decree urged                                                                                       of F:innice, CojInCIJ;
particularly the largest loss  improved performance or rapid   A criteria, acceptable to the Bank,                                         banks and Cabinet ot
makers.                     elimination of identified loss-    for selecting enterprises to be put                                         Nlinisters' dirftt
making SOEs.                     under the proposed pilot restructuring                                       participatioin.
scheme has been determined and
announced. **
Government has established a    The Credit Bureau developed            The Credit Bureau will report to thc
Credit Bureau under the Central  selection criteria, acceptable to the    Government on a quarterly basis,
Bank to operate a centralized    Bank, to determine which enterprises  enterprises arrears to the budget, to
information and monitoring       should stop receiving new bank        the bank, and to other enterprises and
system of enterprises arrears to   credits.**                          creditors.
the Government (loans from the
Budget, taxes and social         The Credit Bureau identified debt and
security contributions), to the    arrears for the largest 30 users of
banks and to other enterprises    credit in 1994 and provided the
and creditors.*                  information to the Bank in the agreed
format.
*       Denote actions fulfilled for IMF's Board approval of STF.
**      Denote structural benchmarks of IMF's STF.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
Objectives               Actions Already               Fulfilled Before Board                Medium Term                   Institutional
Taken                        Presentation                         Actions                    Requirements
C. SOCIAL SAFETY
NET
1. Pensions
Rationalize current pension  Pension Law, effective 1994,    Cabinet of Ministers has submitted    Implement the revised scheme of  Cabinet of Ministers'
structure to contain costs   and a decree of April 15, 1994   Resolution to the Parliament on  pension adjustment by July 1, 1995.  resolution/decrees.
and ensure adequacy.     reduced number of groups       February 8, 1995 with a revised
entitled to early pensions.  system for adjusting pension benefits.
Strengthen enforcement of
payroll tax collection.   Daily penalty for late payment
reduced to 0.2 percent in Jan.
1994.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1. Key Indicators
1993     1994     1995   1996   1997   1998
(Estimated)         (Projected)
Growth Rates
GDP                                        -4.5     -6.2   -1.7    2.4    4.4
Consumption / Capita Growth Rate           2.2       -5    -0.7    2.7    3.2
Total DOD (mln. US$)             1,492    1,758    2,279  2,681   2,966  3,060
DOD / IGS                         45.8      47      55.8   62.5   66.1   65.7
DOD / GDP                         6.5      14.2     19.7   23.6   25.5   25.2
Debt Service (mln. US$)           72       651      446    596    515   571
Debt Service / IGS                2.2      17.4     10.9   13.9   11.5   12.3
Debt Service / GDP                0.3      5.3       3.9    5.2    4.4    4.7
Gross Investment/GDP              29.4     24.5     23.8   22.4   21.2  20.9
Export Growth Rate                         2.6       0.8    2.5    4.2    4.3
Exports/GDP                       12.3     13.3     14.3   14.9   15.1   15.1
Import Growth Rate                         7.4       5.4     2      1.6    1.4
Imports/GDP                        14      15.8     17.8   18.4   18.3   17.8
Sources: Uzbek Authorities and Staff Erim



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
2. Balance of Payments
1993     1994      1995    1996   1997   1998
(Estimated)          (Projected)
Exports of GNFS                     2,838      3,235   3,365   3,583   3,893  4,224
Imports of GNFS                     3,229      3,621   3,954  4,116   4,272 4,422
Resources balance                    -391       -386    -589   -533    -379  -198
Net Factor Income                     -14        -26      -40    -78    -121  -137
Current Balance                      -405       -412    -629   -611    -500  -335
Long-term Capital Inflows           1,001        418     500    550    481   308
Direct Investment                    30        120      198    218     240   254
Net LT Borrowing                    971        298     302    332    242    54
a. Disbursements               1,025       872      660    814    586   403
b. Repayments                    54        574      358    482     344   349
Other LT Inflow (net)                 .
Total Other Items (net)                20         30      39      51      66    86
Overall Balance                       617         39      -90    -11      48    59
Meno Item
Reserve Stock                       1,300      1,336   1,387  1,376   1,400  1,412
Change in Net Reserves               -617        -36      90      11    -48   -59
Reserve / Imports                    4.83       4.43    4.21   4.01    3.93   3.83
GDP (billion of current US$)       22,999     12,338  11,570 11,374  11,650 12,162
Sources: Uzbek Authorties and Staff Estimatcs



Annex 4
Page I of 1
UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
GOODS INELIGIBLE FOR FINANCING
1.    expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or subgroups, or any successor
groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group             Subgroup        Description of Items
112                ..            Alcoholic beverages
121                 ..           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                ..             Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                 ..            Radioactive and associated materials
667                 ..            Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones,
worked or unworked
718                 718.1         Nuclear reactors and parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges), nonirradiated for nuclear
reactors
728                 728.43        Tobacco processing machinery
897                 897.3         Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares (including
set gems)
971                 ..            Gold, nonmonetary (excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
2.    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
3.    payments made for goods imported prior to the date of signing, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $32,000,000 may be made on account of payments
made for such goods imported before that date but after November 30, 1994;
4.    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency, other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
5.    expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption; and



Annex 5
UZBEKISTAN                              Page 1 of 3
REHABILITATION LOAN
THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE SYSTEM
1.           Uzbekistan left the ruble zone and introduced an interim currency, the sum coupon,
on November 15, 1993. Regular weekly interbank foreign currency auctions began on April 15,
1994. The auction-determined exchange rate was used for all official transactions. Uzbekistan
introduced its national currency, the sum, on July 1, 1994. The sum was introduced at a conversion
rate of 1,000 sum coupons per sum and at an exchange rate of 7 sums per US dollar. The auction to
determine the official rate coexists with a parallel or "black market" in foreign exchange.
2.            On August 1, 1994, a dual exchange rate was temporarily established by the Central
Bank. The official exchange rate was used for non-cash transactions and customs payments, while the
commercial exchange rate was used for cash transactions. Individuals were granted the right to buy
limited amounts of foreign currency at the cash rate. The limit was initially set at US$250, and
subsequently increased to US$1,000 in September, when the Cabinet of Ministers also gave the
Central Bank control over decisions on the amount of foreign currency that individuals can buy from
currency offices and other regulations on currency exchange transactions. The Central Bank
decreased the limit on annual purchases of individuals to US$300 in late November, 1994, but plans
to increase it to at least US$1,000 for 1995. In October 1994, after the currency turmoil in Russia, a
Cabinet of Ministers resolution mandated that all payments and settlements in Uzbekistan be effected
in sum.
3.           In the period immediately following the introduction of the currency in July 1994, the
sum depreciated steadily, but the parallel market rate appreciated as enterprises and individuals moved
out of the sum coupon and access to bank credit and cash deposits was restricted. During August the
official exchange rate was relatively stable at about 11-12 sums per US$, but the sum depreciated
further in September, so that the difference between the official, cash, and parallel market rates
narrowed. The commercial and cash rates were unified in the first week of October at the rate of 22
sums per US dollar. The sum has depreciated slightly since then (see Figure 1).
Figure 1
Official Exrange Rate
27 - -
25--
23--
21
17
15
13
@   0     e              oU         t          8 0  z 



Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
4.            In the foreign currency auction, the Central Bank acts as seller and the participating
banks as buyers. Initially, 4-6 banks participated in the auctions, but the number has increased to 13.
The Central Bank is considering applications from two more banks. The first step in the auction
procedures is to collect the applications of participating banks. If demand based on these applications
exceeds the amount of foreign exchange offered, then the price of foreign exchange is increased and
banks resubmit their orders. The new rate is set when the amount requested equals the amount
offered. All banks pay the same rate at the end of the auction. Participating banks deposit the sum
equivalents of their bids before the auction. The foreign currency offered by the Central Bank is
frozen in foreign banks until after the auction. Foreign exchange is transferred to winning bidders
one day later.
5.            The amount of foreign currency exchanged in the auction was initially rather low, at
about US$ 1 million per week. The small amount transacted and the small number of banks
participating indicated that an efficient currency auction market was probably not yet in place, but
beginning in September 1994 the volume of transactions began to expand and reached about US$ 10
million the first week in January, 1995. Both the increase in the volume of transactions and the
greater number of participating banks (Figure 2) pave the way for use of the auction as an indicator
of underlying market conditions. The official exchange rate for the sum will continue to be
determined by the auction.
Figure 2
AverageVolume of ForexTraded
(min. USS)
9.5
8.5
7.5
6.5
5.5
4.5
3.5
2.5
1.5
0.5.                                                           
June       July        Aug         Sept        Oct         Nov         Dec.       J.
6.            One of the sources of increased volume in the foreign currency auction is the 30
percent surrender requirement for all foreign exchange receipts. Since November 1994, the proceeds
from the 30 percent surrender requirement on both centralized and noncentalized exports has been
channeled through the auction. From January 1, 1995, all foreign exchange earnings from centralized
trade (except gold) are being channeled through the auction.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
7.           Since November 1994, the spread between the auction and parallel market rates has
widened. The market has now become very fragmented and thin. The parallel market has become a
less reliable indicator of market conditions since the Government took measures in late November
1994 to restrain activities in this market. The quoted exchange rate incorporates a considerable risk
premium. New rules and foreign exchange regulations will be issued in March 1995 with assistance
from the IMF. The situation in the foreign exchange market will need to be followed up carefully in
the coming weeks.



Annex 6
Page I of 1
UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
As of December 31, 1994
(US $ million)
Loan No.   Fiscal   Purpose                            Amount in USS million            Last ARPP Supervision
Year                                        (less cancellations)                  Ratings
IBRD        Undisbursed   Development   Implementation
Objectives        Progress
3650-UZ     1994      Institution Building                   21.0            20.2        -                U
U: Unsatisfactory; S: Satisfactory; HS: Highly Satisfactory.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
As of January 12, 1995
(JS $ million)
Fiscal Year        Obligator        Type of       EFC Loan    IF Equity   Participants cl       Total
Business
1994                 Amantaytau           Gold          0.0          1.0           4.0              5.0
Gold Fields          Mining
Co.
Total Gross                                                           1.0           4.0             5.0
Conmnitment a/
Less Cancellations,
Terminations,                                                         1.0           4.0             5.0
Repayment and
Sales
Total Commitment
Now Held b/                                                           1.0          4.0              5.0
a/ Gross comnitments consist of approved and signed projects.
b/ Held commnitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.
c/ The participants in the joint venture, which to date has undertaken a feasibility study of the gold mines are: Government
of Uzbekistan, Lonhro Co. (UK), and the IFC.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
UZBEKISTAN
REHABILITATION LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.     Time taken to prepare:               14 months
2.     Project prepared by:                 Governrnent of Uzbekistan, with assistance of
IBRD staff1.
3.     Preparation/Pre-Appraisal:           April 11- 28, 1994
June 28 - July 14, 1994
November 2 - 14, 1994
4.     Appraisal:                           January 4 - 13, 1995
5.     Negotiations:                        February 14-17, 1995
6.     Board presentation:                  March 28, 1995
7.     Expected effectiveness:              April 1, 1995
8.     Expected program completion:         June 30, 1996
1/     This report is based on the work of the World Bank missions which visited Uzbekistan in
October 1993, February, April, June, and November 1994 and January 1995, and assisted the Government in
the preparation of the program and concurrently appraised it. The core team included: Messrs. /Mmes. Vatnick
(Task Manager); Brefort, Saba (Enterprise Reformn/Privatization); Montes-Negret (Financial Sector); Klugman
(Social Safety Net); Kennefick, Rajagopalan (Implementation Arrangements); Demars (Disbursement). Other
contributors include: Messrs./ Mmes. Connolly, Seabright, Takacs (Incentive Framework); Amodeo, Cramer,
Kopicki, Vellutini (Enterprise Sector); Bouton, Frascati, Honohan (Financial Sector); Lowry (Real Estate
Market); Green, (Energy); Folb (Pharmaceuticals Needs); Denizer, Mena, Montes (Implementation
Arrangements); Barlas (LEGEC); Guerrero, Bertozzi, Uruefia and Gomez (EC3C1).
Messrs. Kadir T. Yurukoglu and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively, for this operation.



6~~~~~~~                      4~~~~~~USSIAN
60                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~FED.
__AERBAIJAN          \A/AKH0IAr1
,                    ,,,                         Nct                             .a .                   1   X       A,         e   e YR;) 7ol ea  J'
j  \            \                                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~SLAMIC REP   ''  '  Fr
KAZAKHSTAN    |\                                                                                         OF IRAN     It '-l(AKSA,
s \ ~~~Mu nokt  ( >s 
I   +  I t           \                                         /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFGFHANISTAN 
d *-q2"'s"            N   _ 
ISLMI REP |'   'u  K A Z A K H KSTA
F IRN  U Z B E K I S T A N                                                                                                          KYRGY
Caspian Sea                                                                                     h  l    L(kuduk                             EREPUJBLIC
The boundories, colors,\                                                                            Noai                       1/     1             f 
otenr informaio ond ho-n           T U R K M  E N I S T A N                                                                 / ,       _Q QI
on this map  do not \r 
imply oon the part of                                                                                u< Guhra d '!
ony judgment on the legal  \Srir 
Stotus of any territory,-R  y )                                                                      \\        o=/ n j        ril s s - I
or any ondorsement                                                                Chordzho    \\              /      /       
boundories.                   . ....                                                                     mh)\XKos  T A J I K I S T A  N J
..JISLAMIC REP?\/ '   1eo<1 , 0......, - 
OF IRAN              A                                    w9,PaZ           9>            -  >  Shu>hKZ             STAN
U Z B E K I S T A N                                                                                DhrIl0                         ,' 
t                         r '            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Terme'   r1',- 
*   National Capital                                   _                              {                  rM-, zSh-lf
O        Selected Cities                                                                                                                            R
-        Railroads                                                                                   A F G  H A N I S T A N
-        Main Roads                                   
40                                                                                                                                      Ioshkent ~Rivers  MILE50  lro  200  P' 1
he bndar Internationel Boundaries                                               K ILOMEcERl o r0
implI on th po, o I  :









FILE COPY          (C(I 3CI
Report No: P-   6525 UZ
Type: PR



