RESTR I CTED
FlnL     COPY                        Report No. P-692
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DU CAMEROUN
FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TO BE GUARANTEED BY THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
April 24, 1969






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMkENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE SOCIETE NATIONALE DES EAUX DU CAMEROUN
FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TO BE GUARANTEED BY
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$5.0 million to the Societe
Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun (SNEC) to assist in financing a water supply
project in Douala and Yaounde. The project would be financed jointly with
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The loan would be
guaranteed by the Federal Government of Cameroon.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Federal Government of Cameroon is a federation of the states of
East and West Cameroon, and was established in October 1961. East Cameroon,
a former French-administered trust territory, gained independence in 1960 as
the Republic of Cameroon. West Cameroon, the former United Kingdom trust
territory of Southern Cameroons, joined the newly independent Republic of
Cameroon as a result of a plebiscite in 1961. The Federal Republic of Cam-
eroon became a member of the Bank in 1963 and of IDA in 1964.
3.        The Government asked the Bank to assist in financing a water supply
project in Yaounde in 1966. Bank reconnaisance missions visited the country
in 1966 and 1967 and found the project promising but suggested that the ex-
pansion of water supply facilities in Douala should be included in the project.
The Bank also recommended improvements in the management and organizational
structure of the water supply agencies in Cameroon. Following these recom-
mendations the Government established the Societe Nationale des Eaux du
Cameroun in July 1967. Engineering studies at both Yaounde and Douala were
completed in 1968 and two Bank missions appraised the project in March and
October 1968. Negotiations with the CCCE and with a delegation of SNEC and
the Cameroon Government led by Mr. Joseph N. Ovono, Ambassador of Cameroon
were completed in Washington on April 1, 1969.



4.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Cameroon as of March 31, 1969:
Amount ($ million)
Loan or Credit                                                    Undis-
Number          Year      Borrower       Purose Bank    IDA   bursed
100 CM          1967      Cameroon       CAMDEV    -   U.0      8.0
490 CM          1967      CAMDEV         CAMDEV   7.0   -       6.9
S3  CM          1968      Cameroon       Roads     -    o.6     0.4
593 CM          1969      SOPAME         Oil Palm 7.9   -       7.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA        14.9  11.6
Total undisbursed                     14.8   8.4    23.2
*Not yet effective.
5.        In July 1964 the Executive Directors approved two Bank technical
assistance grants of US$200,000 and US$100,000 for feasibility studies of
road and agricultural projects. The Bank and IDA have under consideration
an education project and a road project, the latter being prepared under the
US$0.55 million credit approved in 1968.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED LOAN
6.        The Project
Purpose:           The development of the Douala and Yaounde water
supply system;
Estimated return:  Douala sub-project 22 percent
Yaounde sub-project 13 percent
7.        The Bank Loan
Borrower:          Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun (SNEC)
Guarantor:         The Federal Republic of Cameroon
Amount:            US$5.0 million equivalent in various currencies
Amortization:      In 20 years including a three-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments be-
ginning June 15, 1972 and ending June 15, 1989.
Interest rate:     6 1/2 percent
Commitment Charge: 3/4 of one percent



- 3 -
8.        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economigue loan
Borrower:          Societe Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun (SNEC)
Amount:            US$1.6 million equivalent in French francs.
Amortization:      In 15 years including a three-year period of grace.
Interest rate:     4 1/4 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report (PU-10a) entitled "Appraisal of the Douala and Yaounde
Water Supply Project - Cameroon" is attached. Douala and Yaounde are the
two largest cities in Cameroon, the first is the main seaport and industrial
center and the latter is the Federal Capital. Their populations were about
240,000 and 140,000 respectively in 1968. SNEC has the monopoly of water
supply in these two cities and in nine secondary centers under concession
agreements with the Government.
10.       SNEC is a public corporation with a share capital of CFAF 100 mil-
lion. Its shareholders are the Cameroon Government (22%), CCCE (11%) and
Electricite du Cameroun (EDC) (67%). Present arrangements provide for co-
ordination between SNEC and EDC so as to reduce overheads and to permit SNEC
to benefit from EDC's highly competent management.
11.       The demand for water in both Yaounde and Douala is rising rapidly
because of rising population and increased industrial use, especially in
Douala. The project would provide for doubling of water supply facilities
in the two cities which are at present unable to meet demand during the dry
season. The Douala sub-project provides for expansion of production facili-
ties, and additional reservoirs and distribution lines. At Yaounde the project
would include the construction of an earth dam creating a reservoir of 5 mil-
lion cubic meters capacity, a new treatment plant and pumping station and a
transmission main to carry the water to the city, as well as additional stor-
age and distribution facilities. The project is expected to be completed in
two years.
12.       All contracts for construction and procurement of equipment will be
let in accordance with the Bank's procedures for international competitive
bidding, the cost being estimated at $5.1 million. Engineering and super-
vision is estimated at $0.4 million and contingencies $0.9 million. The
project would be financed as follovs:



$ million
Bank       CCC       SNEC
Civil works, equipment
and engineering services
and contingencies: of
which $4.7 million is
estimated to be foreign        4.7       1.6        0.1
Working capital                 -         -         0.3
Interest during
construction                   0.3        -          -
5.0       1.6        0.4
The Cameroon Government will provide land for the reservoir at Yaounde, the
value of which is not included in the cost estimate. Cameroon has also un-
dertaken to insure the prompt payment of amounts due to SNEC by itself and
the municipalities, and foregoes receipts of duties on goods imported for
SNEC's investments. It is proposed to reimburse out of the Bank loan past
expenditures made since January 1, 1969 for engineering work in an amount
which is not expected to exceed $50,000. The Bank and CCCE have agreed upon
disbursement procedures and consultation on matters arising during the life
of the CCCE loan.
13.       The Bank loan itself would not exceed the foreign exchange costs of
the project but since it would be disbursed pari passu with the CCCE loan it
could be deemed to cover in part some of the local currency expenditure.
This would be justified in. the light of Cameroon's overall need for external
capital as described in paragraph 20 below, and the importance of providing
adequate finance for this high priority project.
14.       During 1969-71 SNEC will also invest about $3 million, most of which
is for extension of the distribution networks not included in the project.
As a result of its investment program SNEC is expected to be in a strong
financial position by 1973: the projected rate of return on net plant em-
ployed, is above 10 percent assuming that current rate policies will be con-
tinued, and the cover for the service of debt is expected to be more than
adequate. The borrower has agreed to maintain a minimum return on net plant
employed of 10%, subject to review with the Bank, and minimum cover of 1.5
times maximum debt service requirements. The incremental rates of return on
the investments to be made under the project are 22% in Douala, 13% in Yaounde.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       Copies of the following documents are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately:
(i)  the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Societe
Nationale des Eaux du Cameroun;
(ii) the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federal Republic
of Cameroon and the Bank;
(iii) the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank; and
(iv) the text of a Resolution approving this loan.
16.       The following features of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements
are of particular interest:
(i) The Borrower will set water charges at rates suf-
ficient to ensure after completion of the Project
an annual return on net fixed assets in operation of
not less than 10%, subject to review with the Bank.
(Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement). The Borrower
will also maintain minimum cover of 1.5 times maxi-
mum debt service requirements (Section 5.09 of the
Loan Agreement).
(ii) During the period of construction the Borrower's
investments are limited to specified amounts, unless
the Bank agrees otherwise (Section 5.08 of the Loan
Agreement).
(iii) Various aspects of the joint financing are reflected
in certain provisions of the Loan Agreement, such
as: (i) Section 2.03 regarding withdrawals from the
Loan Account; (ii) Section 5.11 concerning repay-
ment in advance of maturity of the CCCE Loan; (iii)
Sections 6.02 and 6.03 authorizing the Bank to require
immediate repayment of the Loan if CCCE requires im-
mediate repayment of its Loan, or to suspend disburse-
ments on the Loan if the Borrower's right to withdraw
amounts under the CCCE Loan is suspended or cancelled;
and (iv) Section 7.01(a) making the effectiveness of
the Loan conditional upon the CCCE Loan.
(iv) The Guarantee Agreement follows the general pattern
of the Bank's guarantee agreements; however, in addition,
the Guarantor undertakes (Section 3.08) to ensure the
payment to SNEC of all past due water charges owed by it
or any of its political subdivisions.



- 6 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
17.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of the Republic of Cameroon" (AF-79a dated August 8, 1968) was circulated to
the Executive Directors on September 4, 1968 (R68-171). The conclusions of
this report remain valid.
18.       Since 1959 real. GOP has increased by about 5 percent per year.
Agriculture which still employs three-quarters of the working population
accounts for 37 percent of GDP, providing most of the food stuffs which can
be economically produced in Cameroon and 70 percent of exports. Manufacturing
has progressed rapidly during the past few years as has the tertiary sector.
The main physical bottleneck to the growth of the economy is the transportation
system: roads and railways are in a poor state of repair and more attention
should be paid to building feeder roads. Public services in the urban centers
are also inadequate.
19.       The Government's management of fiscal and economic affairs has
been generally good taking into account the difficulties arising from inde-
pendence, the establishment of the federation between two differing regions
and the progressive elimination of preferences for Cameroon products in the
French market. Even after the terminstion of French budgetary support in
1965, Cameroon continued to have a fairly stable financial situation except
in 1967 when credit to the private sector expanded rapidly resulting in a
sudden increase in imports. The consequent decline in foreign exchange re-
serves was, however, reversed in early 1968. Good fiscal performance is
reflected by budgetary savings amounting to about US$16 million in 1967-68,
or 10 percent of current receipts.
20.       The second five-year development plan (July 1966 to June 1971)
describes the Government's long-term development strategy. Gross domestic
product is expected to double by 1980 as a result of increasing the rate of
investment from 10 percent to i6 percent distributed equally between the
private and public sectors. The sectoral allocation of investment is sound.
The plan includes a substantial allocation for investment in transport, parti-
cularly for the completion of the Trans-Cameroon Railway. During 1967-71
Cameroon can be expected to finance Almost two thirds of its gross domestic
investment from its owv resources. Public savings, however, which have in-
creased greatly since the early sixties, are unlikely to contribute more than
27 percent over the next three years to the public investments warranted by
the country's increasing absorptive capacity. As a result, total external
capital requirements will exceed the foreign exchange component of projects
suitable for external financing, thus requiring some degree of local cost
financing.
21.       Cameroon is regarded as eligible for assistance from IDA because
of low incomes and limited savings capacity, despite the efforts which are
being made by the country to mobilize domestic resources for economic devel-
opment. On the other hand, the volume of external debt is Btill moderate,
and the country may be regarded as creditworthy for some additional borrowing
on conventional terms, including the proposed loan.



- 7 -
PART VI- COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
23.       I recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNam ra
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
April 24, 1969






