CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 604 CM
Guarantee Agreement
(Douala and Yaounde Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 2, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 604 CM
Guarantee Agreement
(Douala and Yaounde Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 2, 1969


﻿I
(Onarauter Agireement
AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1969, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (hereinafter called the Guarantor)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEL-
OPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and Societe Nationale des Eaux du
Cameroun (hereinafter called the Borrower), the Bank has
agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various cur-
rencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement,
but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated Janu-
ary 31, 1969 with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other covenants in the Guarantee Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,
as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, the premium, if any,
on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption of the
Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual perform-
ance of all the obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement and in the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guar-
antor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures re-
quired for the carrying out of the Project, to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such
funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It is the mutual intention of the Guar-
antor and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy
any priority over the Loan by way of a lien on govern-
mental assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be
created on any assets of the Guarantor as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equalll qnd ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and inkrest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as secu-
rity for the payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions to secure a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this
Section includes assets of the Guarantor or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor
or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-
nish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On
the part of the Guarantor, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic con-
ditions in the territory of the Guarantor and the interna-
tional balance of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the
service thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable oppor-
tunity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit
any part of the territory of the Guarantor for purposes
relating to the Loan.
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territory and
free from all restrictions imposed under such laws; pro-
vided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall not


﻿6
apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a holder
thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of the Guar-
antor.
SECTION 3.04. The Guarantee Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and the Bonds shall be free from any taxes
that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or
laws in effect in its territory on or in connection with the
execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 3.05. Without limiting or restricting the Guar-
antor's obligations under Section 2.01 of this Agreement,
the Guarantor covenants that it shall cause to be taken
all measures required to enable the Borrower to acquire
all rights to lands and rights-of-way which shall be neces-
sary to carry out the Project, and, except as the Bank may
otherwise agree, that it shall not permit any use or abstrac-
tion of water which would adversely affect the water sup-
ply and distribution systems of Douala and Yaounde, and in
particular, that it shall not permit any pollution of the
Mefou watershed upstream of the Mopfou Dam nor of
the Dibamba River which would endanger the quality of
the water of such water supply and distribution systems.
SECTION 3.06. Not later than at the time of the settle-
ment of all accounts under the Gerance agreements pro-
viding for the operation of the water systems in Cameroon
prior to the establishment of the Borrower, the Guarantor
shall cause all such accounts to be transferred to, or as-
sumed by, the Borrower, to be audited by qualified account-
ants satisfactory to the Bank, and the Guarantor shall
cause a signed copy of the auditors' reports to be trans-
mitted to the Bank promptly after their preparation.
SECTION 3.07. The Guarantor covenants that it shall
from time to time review the tariff policies and structure
of the Borrower with the Bank and the Borrower and that


﻿7
it shall enable the Borrower to carry out its obligations
under Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement.
SECTION 3.08. With reference to Section 5.10 of the
Loan Agreement, the Guarantor shall take all measures
necessary to ensure the payment to the Borrower promptly
as required of all water charges due by the Guarantor or
by any of its political subdivisions and billed by the
Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the General Conditions, its
guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by the
Borrower. The Finance Minister of the Guarantor and such
person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are desig-
nated as authorized representatives of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The Ministre du Plan et du D'veloppe-
ment of the Guarantor is designated as representative of
the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere du Plan et du Developpement
Yaounde
Federal Republic of Cameroon
Cable address:
Minplan
Yaound6


﻿8
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused the Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their re-
spective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
By /s/ JOSEPH N. OWONO
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


