FILE        COPY                               'CIRCULTING
TO BE REiTURNED TO REPORTS DESK
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DE.''
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report Nopr..1611aKE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDNET
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
June 23,. 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without, Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for, the
accuracy or completeness.of.the report.



CURRENCY UNIT      =        Kenya Shilling (K Sh)
us $            2            K Sh 7.14
K 1             =            US $ 2.80
K Sh 1          =            US $ 0.1h   
K Sh 1,000      =            US $ 140.00
K Sh 1,000,000  =            US $ 140,000.00
FISCAL YEAR        -         JULY 1 to JUiE 30



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDTION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Industrial Development Bank with the guarantee of the Republic of
Kenya for the equivalent of US$10 million to help finance the foreign exchange
component of investments of this development finance company in large and
medium-scale industrial projects in Kenya. The interest on the loan would
be 8-1/2 percent per annum. Amortization will conform substantially to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to the specific investment
projects financed out of the proceeds of the loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:    Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. It was followed by an agricultural
sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973) dis-
tributed on March 13, 1974. A special mission visited Kenya in February
1974 to review the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light of
the changes in international prices. The mission reported to the Consultative
Group meeting held in Paris in April, 1974. The dialogue on economic and
social development strategy has been further intensified since. The ac-
celerated world inflation, including the increase in oil prices, had a ser-
ious impact on the Kenyan economy. In response, the Government formulated
an action program to restructure the economy. We have had extensive dis-
cussions with the Government about this action program in the context of our
program loan negotiations and in coordination with the IMF staff. Country
Data Sheets are attached in Annex 1.
3.        Kenya's remarkable economic performance during the first decade of
independence was fully acknowledged in the Bank's 1974 Basic Economic Report.
Between 1964 and 1972, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms, which al-
lowed significant gains in per capita income despite a 3.5 percent population
growth rate. Less satisfactory aspects of development in this period were
lack of progress in distributing the benefits of development more equitably
and, in particular, growing unemployment and persistent poverty at the lower
end of the income scale.   The dualistic nature of the economy at independence
in 1963, with its concentration of wealth in the European and Asian communities
and serious poverty in the rural areas where 90 percent of the population
lived, was at the root of this unequal development, since it proved difficult
to change rapidly.



- 2 -
4.         In looking ahead into the second decade of Independence, the Basic
Economic Report concluded that Kenya did not really have the option to con-
tinue the past pattern of growth and that in order to maintain the momentum
of growth an essential restructuring of the growth process would be necessary.
The past growth rate has been supported by a high and growing investment rate
both in the public and the private sectors (with fixed capital formation
reaching as much as 25 percent of monetary GDP in the early 70s). Kenya's
domestic savings rate, about 20 percent, is also one of the highest in the
developing world. There were some signs, however, that savings were level-
ling off, which raised doubts whether resource mobilization would be able
to keep up with the pace of investment. Moreover, there were some indications
of a falling efficiency of resource use (in terms of rising capital output
ratios as well as the disappointing growth of employment).
5.        The most critical constraint, however, is the external resource
gap. Although Kenya's export performance, including the growth of tourism,
has been very satisfactory, the pattern of past development has made the
economy heavily dependent on imported raw materials and capital goods. With
increasing production and investments, imports have grown rapidly. Rising
import prices exacerbated the problem and a resource gap emerged which
could not be filled by available capital inflows from abroad.
6.        Thus even before the upsurge in world inflation experienced
during 1974, it had become clear that the Kenya economy would eventually
run into an unmanageable balance of payments problem, unless growth were
to be based on greater use of domestic factors of production, and more
efficient use of available resources. The Basic Economic Report advocated
first a restructured pattern of growth in favor of the directly productive
sectors, most immediately to agriculture but also to resource-based industry.
Second, it recommended factor price adjustments to move market prices closer
to real scarcity values and thus increase the efficiency of resource use
throughout the economy. This would hopefully permit to continue rapid
growth in the long run, a first prerequisite for an effective attack on
unemployment and rural poverty. At the same time, it would directly
promote growth of income in the rural areas.
7.        The Third Development Plan, 1974-1978, published in early 1974,
contains a development strategy which is broadly consistent with the Bank
recommendations; the Plan also reflects the findings of the major UNDP/ILO
mission which visited Kenya at the Government's request in 1972 and pub-
lished an innovative report on employment, incomes and equality. By re-
structuring the economic growth pattern, the Government hoped to achieve a
7.4 percent growth rate, which would exceed previous performance; employment,
rural development and more equitable distribution of income were to receive
more attention than in previous years. Employment would grow by 3.2 percent
per year. However, in 1974 the Kenyan economy was hit by unprecedented up-
surge in world inflation and a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade,
which precipitated a balance of payments crisis.



-3-
8.        The terms of trade deteriorated by about 9 percent in 1974
(preliminary figures) as a result of soaring import prices which were
only partly offset by higher export prices especially during the earlier
months of the year. The volume of imports rose owing to stock buildup
while the volume of agricultural exports was depressed by drought. An
extraordinary trade deficit of nearly $450 million and current account
deficit of about $325 million (1973: $75 million) resulted.
9.        Although Kenya was one of the most seriously affected counLries,
it managed to absorb the balance of payments effects of world price changes
without too much disruption during 1974. This was in part due to the
facts that initial foreign exchange reserves were at a comfortable level
and there was no shortage of the major staple food, maize. Net capital
inflows increased considerably and, moreover, the country got a favorable
response to its application for special financial assistance, especially
from the IMF, which provided $38 million under its oil facility. The
drawdown of reserves could thus be limited to $84 million. However,
the world inflation strongly affected the domestic price level through
the upsurge of prices of imported products. Serious domestic inflation
had occurred for the first time in 1973 when the cost of living went
up by 13 percent after a long period of average annual increases of
just over 2 percent. In 1974, the imported inflation reinforced the
internal pressure on the price level which resulted from reductions
in Kenya's crop and livestock production following prolonged drought;
the overall price increase may well reach 15 percent in 1975. GDP
growth in real terms slowed down to about 5 percent. The country's
external position is expected to worsen considerably during 1975, owing
to a steeper decline in the terms of trade than in 1974, which would
result from a levelling off or a fall of export prices and a continued
increase of import prices. Under these assumptions, the current account
deficit in 1975 will exceed that of 1974, probably by about $40 million.
10.       The basic objective of the Government's action program is to
restructure the economy as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum
economic development in the future under much more stringent balance of
payments conditions. The aim is to restrain imports in a way that has
a minimum impact on production in the next few years and to direct more
production into exports. It will therefore be necessary to compress
public and private consumption and to channel investments into the most
productive and quickly yielding uses, in particular into appropriate
import substitution and export promotion. In both activities the agr-
icultural sector will have a major role to play; by further improve-
ments to its already good performance in previous years it will also
have to absorb more labor and maintain incomes in a period of possible
slowdown of urban employment. Manufacturing, which will possibly become
the most dynamic sector in the long run, faces a difficult adjustment
process in the next few years. It will have to improve its resource
utilization and reduce its heavy import dependence in favor of a more
domestic resource based production.



- 4 -
11.       A crucial component of the Government's strategy is the attempt
to hold down the domestic rate of inflation to well below world inflation
so as to help bring about import substitution and export promotion by
price differentials. This decision implies that real incomes have to
fall; this hardship will be distributed between income groups in such
a way that the lowest income groups receive full compensation for cost
of living increases, while better-off members of society are made to
bear a proportionately larger share of the burden by partial compensa-
tion or no compensation at all.
12.       In addition to the income policy, the action program relies
mainly on global monetary and fiscal policies reinforced by agricultural
pricing policies and some specific administrative measures. Not only is
the overall money supply limited by increases in interest rates and
direct restrictions on credit expansion, but the Government is also
directing credit into agriculture, manufacturing, export business and
tourism. On the fiscal policy side, Kenya's already good tax perform-
ance as well as the measures introduced in 1973 and 1974 to make the
system more progressive does not leave much room for substantial tax
increases. The Government nevertheless intends to raise some taxes
on non-essential domestic and imported products and to further improve
tax administration and revenue collection. Some other envisaged tax
measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax and increased
urban property tax) seek to promote equity as well as revenue increases.
The discussion continues with the other Partner States in the East African
Community about a modification of the common external tariff towards more
uniform rates for consumer goods and capital goods.
13.       A revised three-year budget for FY76 to FY78 has been adopted,
which aims at reducing the growth of government consumption, promoting
exports, increasing production of agricultural commodities for import
substitution and use of more labor-intensive techniques. Recurrent
expenditure growth in real terms has been reduced to 6 percent from
11 percent projected in the 1974-1978 Development Plan, and expenditure
growth included in the Development Budget is set at 7.8 percent (as
against 12 percent). This required the politically difficult decision
to bring the rapidly accelerating recurrent expenditure for education
under control; the Government has now decided to allow only a 6 percent
annual increase, freezing education's share of recurrent expenditure at
32 percent. In the Development Budget, the share of agricultural and
water development was increased from 22 to 35 percent while that of
road and building construction was brought down from 22 percent to 18
percent; moreover, a significant shift away from trunk roads to second-
ary and rural access roads was incorporated within the road construction
program.
14.       In addition to these domestic measures, the Government is seek-
ing to accelerate disbursements under existing foreign financing commit-
ments and to obtain additional commitments, including quickly disbursing
assistance, in order to maintain some momentum of growth while the restruc-
turing policy is taking effect.   Thanks to generally positive reactions



- 5 -
from donors, the external financing plan for 1975 is anticipating that
the larger part of the overall deficit can be covered through higher
inflows of conventional financing plus additional special inflows from
several bilateral sources as well as the IBRD; Kenya will also use sub-
stantial drawings on various IMF facilities. A similar effort would
have to be made for 1976 and following years to close the residual
balance of payments gap.
15.       In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative
policy with regard to external borrowing. Since Independence, Kenya has
accumulated new commitments at a rate of about 8.5 percent per year, or
somewhat less than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current
prices. As a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively
light (4 percent of exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East
African Community debt), and the country could if necessary resort to
moderate borrowing on commercial terms during the next few difficult
years, without impairing long-term creditworthiness. At the end of 1974
total debt outstanding amounted to $722 million, of which $455 million had
been disbursed. About 36 percent of total external debt is now held by
the Bank Group (IBRD: 18.4 percent, IDA 17.7 percent), but because Bank
Group lending has only recently become a significant proportion of Kenya's
debt, debt service to the Bank Group in 1974 was still only about 13 per-
cent of all debt service payments (IBRD:    11.7 percent, IDA:   1.4 percent).
In addition to its own external public debt, Kenya is also jointly respon-
sible together with the other two Partner States for debts incurred by
the East African Community and its institutions, which amounted to some
$300 million (including undisbursed) at the end of 1974. Allowing for
a nominal one third of service payments on these debts, Kenya's total
debt service ratio is about 6 percent.
16.       In spite of the much greater need for external capital now
facing the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her
external debt management, although the Government is making greater
use of suppliers' or export credits on favorable terms to finance some
of the larger projects now ready for implementation. Under the assump-
tions made by the Bank staff about balance of payments developments,
Kenya's external debt will have to increase considerably over the next
decade if the expected balance of payments gap is to be filled. While
Kenya's economic performance certainly justifies substantial amounts
of concessionary financing, including IDA credits, these are available
in limited amounts only. It can therefore be expected that the terms of
borrowing would be on the average less favorable than Kenya has enjoyed
in the past. However, since export earnings will increase during the
period as well, barring major unforeseen developments in Kenya's terms
of trade, the debt service ratio would probably not exceed 11 percent
by the end of the 1970s. By that time it is estimated that the Bank
Group might hold about 35-40 percent of total disbursed debt and receive
over 20 percent of debt service payments. Beyond 1980, creditworthiness
will depend on Government ability to take action in the near future to
increase the productivity of investments, to reduce the import propensity
and to increase exports. The revised public investment program of Kenya



- 6 -
for the next few years represents a major step in this direction. Tem-
porary higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be followed
by a fall in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade if the
Government's action program is successful. However, in spite of the
considerable-! efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations orn domestic resources are such that a sub-
stantial part of the costs of the program, including limited amounts
of local costs in the case of projects with a low foreign exchange com-
ponent may have to be financed from external sources.
17.       Kenya is one of the three Partner States belonging to the East
African Community.   The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation is one
of the most far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agreements
in existence among sovereign states in the developing world. However, in
practice the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Poli-
tical developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade.     These difficul-
ties have been compounded by the balance of payments crisis which currently
faces all three Partner States.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
18.       Kenya has to date received thirteen Bank loans and seventeen
IDA credits amounting to $214.7 million and $145.7 million, respectively.
In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of nine loans total-
ling $229.8 million which have been extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry)
operated regionallY for the three Partner States of the East African
Community -- Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary
stater.ents of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya anid the East African
Community Corporations, a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satis-
factorily, but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical
fields continue to present problems and have slowed down progress on
some projects. Because of the difficulties in attracting qualified
expertise, no immediate remedy can be expected. However, the gradual
increase in suitably trained Kenyans to fill such positions should
eventually alleviate these problems.
20.       While our past lending to Kenya has been dominated by support
for infrastructure, our lending in recent years marks a departure. Last
year Kenya was the first country in sub-Saharan Africa to obtain Bank Group
support for a population project. Recently, as a first step in providing
low-income dwellers in Nairobi with suitable housing, a site and service
project was presented to the Executive Directors. In support of the action
program adopted by the Government to restructure the economy and maintain



the momentum of growth in a period of serious balance of payments con-
straints, a Program Loan was recently presented to the Executive Direc-
tors. Our agricultural lending has been stepped up mainly as a result
of an expanded program of technical assistance both through our Regional
Mission in Eastern Africa and direct technical assistance to the Ministry
of Agriculture.   The Government has now launched with assistance from
the Association, Canada, United Kingdom and United States, a five year
beef development program utilizing the grasslands in the Northeast of
Kenya.   This project is exp=cted to benefit some 170,000 people many
of whom are nomads.   A tea factories project to ensure adequate process-
ing facilities for Kenya's high quality tea is under construction and a
project aimed at rehabilitation of some 130 group-owned farms is about to
start. A broadly conceived integrated crop production project, designed
to benefit a large number of small farmers, is now being appraised and
preparation is under way for an irrigation project in the Lower Tana
River Basin and for expansion of sugar production.
21.        Concurrently with efforts to support agricultural production,
we foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure
and hope to assist rural access roads and rural water supply schemes in
the near future. We shall also shortly appraise a wildlife and tourism
project which will help provide infrastructure for new tourist circuits
and help spread benefits to rural communities and a third education
project aimed at improving primary school education is under considera-
tion.
22.       While the major emphasis will continue to be on agriculLure and
the development of the rural economy, Lhere is also a need for continued
support to infrastructure and services necessary for continued growth of the
economy. A highly economic oil products pipeline project was recently pre-
sented to the Executive Directors and a hydroelectric power project has been
submitted to the Executive Directors. In addition, a loan for a water supply
scheme to provide Mombasa and surrounding rural area with safe water has been
negotiated.
23.       The difficulties facing the East African Community Corpora-
Lions referred to in paragraph 17 have affected the Bank's lending pro-
gram for the Community. The East African Railways Corporation (EARC)
has been the most severely affected. As a result of long delays by
the Partner States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions
placed on the interstate transfer of corporate funds, the Corporation
has been unable to order essential spare parts and supplies with the
result that its operational capacity has deteriorated drastically. In
July 1974 the Partner States agreed on a package of financial measures
designed to rehabilitate the EARC including transfers of funds and in-
jection of additional capital. I{owever, this agreement has been only
partially implemented. Restrictions have continued to be placed on the
interstate transfer of EARC and other Community Corporations funds, and
EARC's position has deteriorated further. Since EARC corporate funds are
not being transferred in accordance with the formula agreed, and Sh 60
million out of a total of Sh 150 million Lhe Partner States agreed to



-8-
inject into EARC have not been paid, the EARC's right to make withdraw-
als from the Loan Account (from Loan No. 674-EA) has been suspended pend-
ing action on both these issues. Furthermore, in the current state of
uncertainty regarding the future structure of the Community Corporations,
appraisal of further proposed community projects for Corporations which
may have structural changes has been postponed until the issues mentioned
above have been clarified.
24.       IFC has committed a total of $25.9 million for three companies
in Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.;
and Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya Ltd.)). As of May 31, 1975, IFC
held for its own accouIt $17.9 million comprising $13.3 million of loans
and $4.6 million of equity. IFC is discussing with the technical partner,
SEDITEX, and the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation a pro-
posal to set up a new textile mill and is also considering support for
a sugar processing plant.
PART III - INDUSTRIAL AND FINIANCIAL ENVIRONMENT
The Industrial Sector
25.       The industrial sector, which now contributes about 12% of GDP,
has grown rapidly and become the single largest contributor to GDP within
the monetary economy. While the agricultural sector will continue to
dominate the economy over the next few years, the industrial sector will
assume an increasingly important role in its contribution to overall GDP and
employment. Therefore, there is an urgent need for the Government to follow
itidust-ial policies that would enable the sector to become a more efficient
user of resources than it has been in the past, focussing principally on
trade policies and adjustment of factor prices.
26.       The primary incentive offered for industrial investment has been
tariff protection from competing imports. Although the impact is not entirely
clear, it appears that this had led to excessive import-substitution of con-
sLnner goods and has discouraged export-oriented production. To redress the
imbalance, Government seeks to end this excessive protection, to encourage
diversification into manufacturing of intermediate and capital goods and to
encourage domestic resource-based export industries.   To these ends, Kenya
is attemptinlg, in concert with its partners in the East African Community,
to revise the coumion external tariff structure so as to realign the inicentives.
Moreover, it has imposed a sales tax on imported manufactured goods for luxury
consumption to discourage demand for these goods. An export incentive scheme,
providing a 10% bonus for exports outside the East African Community, coupled
with measures being developed to encourage the use of local raw materials,
should give strong encouragement to processing of agricultural products for
export, generating new foreign exchange revenues and employmtent in rural and
-rban areas.



27.       Past factor price policies sought to keep interest rates low while
wages were rising rapidly. The results appear to be excessive capital inten-
sity in industrial investment. Recent policy shifts should tend to alleviate
this problem. The wage policy now attempts to keep real wages constant under
inflationary conditions for lower paid workers while restricting higher level
salary increases to less than actual cost of living rises. Interest rates
have been raised, hopefully mobilizing additional savings for investments
while making capital relatively more expensive. Moreover, credit allocations
should redirect credit to higher priority sectors.
28.       The past policies and their implementation has not served to
optimize the contribution of the industrial sector to Kenya's development.
The adjustments noted above are fundamental and should be reinforced further.
Moreover, as the Government becomes more active as a promoter and co-investor
in industrial projects, directly or through institutions such as IDB, insti-
tutional changes are necessary. The project evaluation capabilities of Govern-
ment and its related institutions need to be strengthened to enhance the impact
of industrial investment; in this task, the Industrial Development Bank should
play an important role in identifying, promoting and financing new industrial
projects on a sound economic basis to make the best use of limited Kenyan
financial and management resources. The Bank offered and the Government
accepted, durinz the Program Loan negotiations in March, 1975, to assist
Government in reviewing the priorities and appropriate policies for future
industrial development, including assistance to small businesses.
Small-Scale Enterprises
29.       Although the bulk of manufacturing output is expected to continue
to come from large and medium-scale enterprises during the current plan period,
the Government plans to continue to develop the small-scale industries,
especially in the rural areas. Small-scale enterprises are currently supported
by bilateral assistance, primarily through a program of industrial estates
and rural industrialization centers. The Government will review general
industrial and commercial policies and regulations with reference to their
impact on small business, examine which subsectors of manufacturing are suit-
able for small enterprises, and improve the quantity, quality, and coordina-
tion of services to small business through a new corporation, the Small
Business Development Corporation, to be established in the future. IFC is
currently cosidering a joint financing scheme to supplement commercial banks'
own resources in Kenya to enable enterpreneurs to start or expand promising
small or medium-size productive private enterprises, including agro-industries,
construction, and service industries but excludihg activities ofta strictly
trading, real estate, or speculative nature. In general, IFC's funds would
be provided for productive private enterprises of economic benefit to the
country with an adequate prospect of earning a profit.
Kenyanization
30.       The Government has proceeded rapidly in its drive for Kenyanization
of ownership and employment.   In the five-year period between 1967-1972, it



- 10 -
has been able to expand the percentage of high and middle level posts held
by Kenyan citizens from 59% to 74%. Transportation and retail trade, pre-
viously dominated by Asian enterprises, have been increasingly licensed to
Kenyans through withdrawing and re-issuing commercial permits. Where initia-
tive from the Kenyan private sector is not sufficiently forthcoming for new
ventures of significant economic importance, the Government has expressed
willingness to participate in new investments with foreign investors.
Employment Effects
31.       Government considers unemployment the major concern of its develop-
ment planning. Employment in the industrial sector, having grown more than
one and a half times as fast as all modern sector employment, stood at 97,500
in 1973 which represented about 13% of total Kenyan wage employment. The
current Development Plan (1974-78) projects an average annual increase in
industrial employment of 7.3% compared to a growth target in industrial output
of 10%. To enable industry to make a greater contribution to the solution of
the unemployment problem, the Government is seeking to encourage labor-intensive
industry through the price and wage policies described above and the small
business development program, while simultaneously dispersing industry from
the urban centers in which it has been concentrated.
Financial Institutions
32.       Kenya has fairly well developed financial institutions in comparison
with other developing countries at a similiar stage of development. In addi-
tion to a small stock exchange and 14 commercial banks providing mainly short-
term loans for working capital, there are four development finance companies;
the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC), the Development
Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK), the East African Development Bank (EADB) and
the Industrial Development Bank (IDB). There is also the Kenya Industrial
Estates Limited (KIE), wholly owned by ICDC, and charged with developing
industrial estates to promote small and medium-scale enterprises by erecting
the required infrastructure, leasing them to entrepreneurs, and providing
finance for machinery and equipment.
33.       The Stock Exchange in Nairobi has 69 companies registered, half of
whose securities are traded regularly. The registered Kenyan firms are mostly
those with reputable backgrounds who have maintained a policy of steady divi-
dend payments. However, the Nairobi Stock Exchange has not been a major
source of long-term financing of new industrial investments as brokers and
investors prefer to see a history of profitable performance before accepting
a particular stock.
34.       Among the 14 commercial banks operating in Kenya, two are owned by
the Kenyan Government and the rest by foreign institutions. Kenya Commercial
Bank (60% owned by the Government, and 40% by Grindlay's International of
U.K.) is the largest with over 20% of total assets of the banking system.
While commercial banks occasionally make medium-term loans and equity



investments, they are primarily engaged in providing short-term finance of
less than one year to manufacturing, agriculture, domestic commerce and
import-export. Current commercial bank lending rates on term loans range
from 10 to 13%.
35.       The Government, faced with serious balance of payment deficits,
has recently instructed the Central Bank of Kenya to adopt new policies
aiming at conserving foreign exchange and encouraging more efficient credit
allocation. These new policies affect commercial banks in that (i) local
lending to foreign-controlled firms is limited to those companies primarily
operating in the priority areas of agricultural production, manufacturing,
tourism or export business, (ii) no limit on credit extension is set for
agriculture, small enterprises, and important industrial raw materials, and
(iii) annual interest ceiling on foreign borrowing was raised from 9% to 11%
with flexibility for higher rates in the case of enterprises operating in
the priority areas mentioned in (i) above.
36.       The Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC), a
statutory corporation established in 1955 to promote industrialization with
emphasis on transferring businesses owned by non-Kenyans to Kenyans and
providing financial assistance to them, has grown rapidly in recent years,
and now holds assets exceeding Kb 18 million. ICDC has equity holdings in
38 companies, controls 13 subsidiaries and owns wholly seven of its subsi-
diaries. About 90% of ICDC's loan portfolio is related to small loan schemes.
The largest scheme is one concerned with the transfer of non-Kenyan businesses
to Kenyans. Another scheme assists Kenyans in property purchases for business
purposes.
37.       Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK) was established in 1963
to promote and finance medium- to large-scale industrial enterprises in Kenya.
Development agencies of Britain, Germany, Holland and Kenya (ICDC) own equally
DFCK's share capital. As of December 31, 1973, DFCK had total resources of
KI, 4.2 million comprised of Kb 2.2 million in equity and Kb 2.0 million in
8% income notes from its shareholders. Its loans and equity portfolio amounted
to KS 3.9 million with diversified investments in tourism, textiles and agri-
cultural processing. DFCK is currently negotiating with its four shareholders
for new resources. It charges 9-1/2 to 11% per annum on its loans. DFCK
anticipates increasing joint appraisal and financing activities with IDB,
with whom it has good relations.
38.       The East African Development Bank (EADB), established in 1968 by
the three member Governments of the East African Community for financing
industrial projects in the three countries, has a share capital of Kb 6.5
million which is held in equal portions of 31% by the three Governments, with
the remainder distributed among several foreign institutions. EADB's charter
favors the less developed industrial sectors of Uganda and Tanzania over
that of Kenya and consequently limits its operations in Kenya to 22.5% of its
total operations, the rest being equally divided between the other two coun-
tries. By September 1974, EADB had total assets of KS 12.8 million and had



- 12 -
approved 14 projects in Kenya totaling Kh 3.1 million. EADB has also made
two lines of credit totaling KS 1.2 million to ICDC for financing of small
enterprises projects in Kenya. EADB charges 10% per annum on its loans and
is currently discussing new lines of credits with IBRD and Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       A report entitled "Kenya - Appraisal of the Industrial Development
Bank" (No. 709-KE, dated May 19, 1975) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. The project was appraised in December 1974. A Loan
and Project summary is provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington in May, 1975. The Kenyan Delegation was led by Mr. L. M. Kabetu,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and included represent-
atives from IDB and the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Background
40.       The Industrial Development Bank (IDB) was formed in 1973, with the
cooperation of the Bank, Government of Kenya, and the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC), to finance medium to large-scale
industrial projects. One of the main issues at that time was whether Kenya
needed another development finance institution or whether institutitons then
in existence could be restructured to meet new needs. The Government decided
to establish IDB for the following reasons: East African Development Bank
(EADB) has been limited by its charter in its operations in Kenya by the
differential formula requiring it to distribute its investments among the
Community Partner States; thus, in Kenya it is constrained by its ability to
generate projects in Tanzania and Uganda. Development Finance Company of
Kenya (DFCK), although an extremely valuable source of foreign contacts and
finance, is subject to the direct control of three external agencies; hence,
Government felt it was not sufficiently responsive to Kenya's national plans
and priorities. Finally, ICDC, whose charter requires that all of its
decisions are subject to the approval of the Minister of Commerce and Industry
and whose main operations involve the transfer of small business from non-
citizens to Kenyans, does not have sufficient operational autonomy from the
Government and inevitably involves itself in sensitive social and political
policies and issues.  IDB has a share capital of KS 2 million. The Govern-
ment of Kenya has directly subscribed 49% of the share capital, and provides
funds for ICDC to subscribe the remaining 51%.
41.       The proposed loan to IDB would be the Bank's second for industrial
financing. The first loan (No. 946-KE) of US$5.0 million was made in 1973,
and had been fully committed as of May 31, 1975.



- 13 -
Relationship with ICDC
42.       The division of responsibilities between IDB and its parent, ICDC,
are spelled out in a Promotion Agreement which provides that ICDC will not
finance any industrial project with a capital cost of more than KS 50,000
unless IDB has decided not to invest in such projects or has decided to invest
jointly with ICDC. Five of the eleven projects approved by IDB so far have
been joint investments with ICDC. As the size of IDB's investments are some-
what constrained by its Policy Statement, joint operations permit a larger
national participation in significant industrial projects. It is expected,
however, that with the current revision of the Development Plan and increased
activities of IDB in medium to large-scale industrial financing, ICDC will
be increasingly re-emphasizing small-scale enterprises in response to increas-
ing interest on the part of the Government and external lenders in small-
scale industrial programs.
Existing Lending Policy
43.       IDB's operations are guided by its Policy Statement which was drafted
in consultation with the Bank and adopted by IDB's Board of Directors in
February 1973. It conforms to policy statements adopted by other development
finance companies. The Policy Statement permits IDB to finance industrial
enterprises including mining, agro-industries and engineering enterprises,
but excludes financing purely trading, real estate and farming activities.
While the policy statement does not preclude IDB from financing tourist
projects, it is expected that this field will be left primarily to the Govern-
ment-owned Kenya Tourist Development Corporation. IDB's minimum investment
is KS 20,000 in projects whose total cost exceeds KS 50,000; any smaller
investments will be made by ICDC directly. Conversely, the Policy Statement
sets a maximum total investment in an enterprise of 20% of IDB's subscribed
share capital and reserves, equivalent to Kb 400,000 at present, not to
exceed 50% of a project's total cost. IDB will not acquire controlling equity
interests, holding no more than 49% of an enterprises's share capital; moreover,
any single equity investment will be limited to 10% of IDB's subscribed share
capital and reserves. In total, IDB expects equity holdings will comprise
25% of its portfolio, not to exceed the sum of its own subscribed share
capital and reserves.
Economic and Financial Analysis of Sub-projects
44.       IDB will continue as agreed under the first Bank loan to carry out
a thorough economic/financial analysis of each project it considers. Although
IDB has been in existence for only about two years, it has made significant
accomplishments in building up its own expertise in project identification
and appraisal. IDB's sub-project analyses in terms of the expected profit-
ability of a project at world prices and the project's relative capital/
labor-intensities and employment effects, should help to correct some of the
structural distortions in Kenya's industrial sector and to maximize the contri-
bution of its projects to the economy.



- 14 -
45.       IDB's appraisal work has been satisfactory.   The staff recruited
brought with them relevant experience and, with the advisory support provided,
have adequately appraised the sub-projects presented. The recent introduction
of an "issues paper" procedure early in the evaluation process, coupled with
a new operations manual and a standard loan agreement, both drafted with Bank
assistance, should enhance both the quality and speed of appraisals. Although
there is still room for improvement in its operations procedures, IDB has made
useful contributions to financial, economic and technical aspects of sub-
projects design.
Projects Promotion
46.       IDB's role in project promotion has been limited by its resources
and staff constraints. But there exist other agencies whose functions
include project identification, promotion and evaluation: the New Project
Committee is an informal forum for the evaluation and approval of industrial
projects. It is chaired by the Permanent Secretary of Commerce and Industry
and composed of representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
ICDC, IDB, DFCK and interested Government agencies; and the Industrial Survey
and Promotion Center (ISPC), an agency under the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry has responsibilities, inter alia, to identify, promote and evaluate
industrial projects. The Government expects to bolster ISPC's future role
and impact in projects promotion. IDB has maintained close contact with these
agencies in their project identification and evaluation. This coupled with
IDB's own sub-project analysis has in the past enabled IDB to select sub-
projects that are consistent with Government's industrial policies. As IDB's
staff, resources and operations grow, it expects to play an increasing role
in project identification and promotion.
Mobilization of Local Capital
47.       IDB is currently considering increasing its share capital of about
KS 2.0 million with participation from local commercial banks and an insurance
company, which have expressed support for the proposal. The Government and
IDB have reached an agreement and confirmed during the negotiations that they
will take all necessary measures to ensure that the agreed increase in IDB's
share capital will be fully allotted and subscribed by a date not later than
September 30, 1975, and that the schedule of payment under such subscriptions
will meet the requirements of IDB's lending operations. To date, IDB has
not borrowed in the local market, but in order to channel scarce local
resources into priority projects, IDB is planning to borrow locally to supple-
ment its foreign borrowing and equity capital in the future.
On-lending Terms
48.       IDB charged an interest rate of 9-1/2% per annum on most of its
approved loans and has recently raised it to 11%. This is in line with the
rates charged by other financial institutions in Kenya. Furthermore, IDB has
agreed that it will at all times charge a rate of interest on its sub-loans
which is commensurate with rates for comparable medium to long-term loans



- 15 -
prevailing in Kenya at the time individual sub-loans are authorized, and IDB
will consult with the Bank on future changes in its interest rate charged on
sub-loans. In addition, IDB charges 1% commitment fee on undrawn balances and
is currently considering the introduction of a 1/2% project examination fee,
payable at the time of application.
49.       The Bank agreed in the first loan (no. 946-KE) that in the case
where IDB was not able to pass the entire exchange risk to its clients, the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank's loan to IDB could be shared between the
Government and IDB's borrowers by having its borrowers assume the risk of
exchange fluctuations between the Kenya shilling and the US dollar and having
the Government accept the risk on any fluctuation between US dollars and the
currencies in which the Bank loan was actually disbursed. However, the
provision has been seldom used, and as all lendable funds are scarce at present,
IDB has agreed that under the present loan it will follow normal DFC practice
and pass the full foreign exchange risk to sub-borrowers.
IDB's Managing Government's Investments
50.       IDB expects to increase its impact on industrial financing by serv-
ing as agent for investment for Government account, and has agreed during the
negotiations to manage such investments in accordance with the following
criteria (i) such investments to be managed will be limited to a scale reason-
ably related to IDB 's own operations and its staffing constraints; (ii) such
investments to be managed will be in projects of significant national develop-
mental interest and at the risk of and for the account of Government; (iii) in
managing such investments IDB will receive an appropriate fee for its services;
and (iv) such investments to be managed will be consistent with IDB's own
investment criteria. Furthermore, IDB has agreed that the number of projects
for which it will undertake to manage investments for the account of Govern-
ment in any one year will not exceed one-third of the total number of projects
for which IDB will undertake to make a loan or investment solely for its own
account.
Board of Directors
51.       IDB's Board includes the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries
of Finance and Planning and of Commerce and Industry, as well as the Executive
Director of ICDC, as ex-officio Directors, and four Directors appointed for a
three-year term from outside the Government of Kenya having extensive know-
ledge of and proven ability in industry. ICDC's Executive Director, an
experienced Kenyan, has been appointed Chairman of the Board of IDB.
Management and Staff
52.       IDB has a competent management and staff.   The Managing Director,
former Chief of Operations and at one time Deputy Secretary in the Ministry
of Finance, has succeeded in assembling a competent staff and has made a
good start in processing projects. He has built an initial reputation for



- 16 -
IDB as an aggressive, responsive and independent financier. The Chief of
Operation, former Under Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, assisted by
an investment adviser on secondment from IBRD, has succeeded in developing
operating procedures for project preparation and appraisal. Among IDB's
professional staff are a senior projects officer who had several years of
development banking and commercial experience before joining IDB, and three
projects officers with backgrounds in Government or finance. Furthermore,
three senior staff have participated in training programs in Germany, Japan
and at the Bank's Economic Development Institute. A chief accountant and
an accountant were engaged in 1974 and recruitment of an engineer and a
lawyer is underway.
53.       A management advisor and an investment advisor, financed respectively
by an ODA (UK) grant and UNDP, are currently assisting IDB's management and
operations. The management advisor, former General Manager of the Tanganyika
Development Finance Company, has responsibilities primarily in assisting IDB's
external relations and promotional works, while the investment advisor is
charged with responsibilities in the development of project appraisal and
supervision procedures. The service of the management advisor will end
September 1975, and be replaced by an investment officer (ODA financed) with
responsibilities for overseeing the implementation and monitoring of approved
projects; it is expected that UNDP will extend its support for the position
of investment advisor to December 1977.
Current Operations
54.       As of December 31, 1974, IDB had approved 11 loans totaling Kb 2.3
million (US$6.4 million) and eight equity investments for Kb 0.8 million
(US$2.2 million) in such areas as agro-industries, textiles, mining, tourism,
and transportation. In line with the Government's policy of industrial decen-
tralization, only four projects were located in Nairobi or Mombasa, the rest
being in small cities and rural areas. The project were about evenly divided
in number betweeen export-oriented and import-substitution. All projects
financed were Kenyan-controlled companies.
Forecast Operations
55.       The total volume of operations from 1975 to 1979 is expected to
average over Kb 3.5 million (US$9.8 million) per annum. The sectoral emphases
remain agricultural processing, including food and industrial raw materials
as well as forestry products, and textiles. Through 1977, IDB expects almost
all of its loans to finance imports, with local expenditures being financed
from promoters' equity and the local banks.
56.       Lending at 10-11% per annum and paying an average of 8% per annum
on debt, IDB is not expected to show a net profit until 1977, when it will
return 1.1% on its average equity, but expects to improve its net profit to
6.9%Z by 1979. This is primarily due to (i) phased paid-in of share subscrip-
tions by Government and ICDC, thereby limiting short-term interest bearing



- 17 -
investments; (ii) high administrative costs as a proportion of total assets
in the initial years for staffing up, (iii) relatively conservative provision
policy, (iv) low projected divident incomes (0% for the first two years from
date of investment, 2% the third, 5% the fourth and 6% thereafter), and
(v) growth rate of only about 10% per annum in overall operations.
Resource Requirements
57.       IDB is expected to commit by the end of 1977, in foreign currency,
about US$24.9 million in loans and US$7.3 million in equity investment, and
also to commit about US$0.7 milion in local currency loans from its share
capital and local borrowings.
58.       The foreign exchange requirements would come from several sources:
In December 1974, IDB signed a loan agreement with Deutsche Gessellshaft fur
Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (DEG) of Germany for DM 4 million (KL 570,000
or US$1.6 million) at 8% for 12 years including five years of grace; IDB
expects to obtain a line of credit of Pound Sterling 1.0 million from the
Export Credit Guarantee Department (ECGD) of UK for procurement of British
equipment and a line of credit of FM 10 million (US$2.7 million) from the
Finnish Government; the African Development Bank is currently considering
a loan of US$2.4 million in 1975-1976 to IDB; and the proposed second IDB
loan of US$10 million, combined with the first Bank loan (No. 946-KE) of
US$5 million and the external sources mentioned above is expected to meet the
foreign exchange loan requirements through the end of 1977.
Proposed Loan
59.       IDB has made a good start in supporting large and medium-scale
industry in Kenya. Having assembled a competent staff, it has usefully
contributed to sub-project designs by recognizing the need for the
economic appraisal of projects and it has well utilized the first
Bank loan. It has also begun to undertake the important role of a
financial intermediary of mobilizing local savings.. The IDB is, there-
fore suitable for further financial assistance and institutional support
from the Bank with the proposed loan of US$10 million equivalent.
60.       It is recommended that the proposed loan be made on substantially
the same terms as the first, with two changes. First, in recognition of
IDB's progress in appraisal, it is recommended that the individual project
free limit be raised from US$200,000 equivalent to US$400,000 equivalent;
the aggregate free limit would be US$2.0 million, or 20% of the proposed
loan. Second, it is proposed that IDB pay the normal commitment charge on
the Bank Loan. Under the first loan, as it had not yet started operations,
IDB was granted concessional treatment, not paying commitment charges until
authiorization to withdraw funds was given on individual sub-projects.
61.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of imports, 65% of the invoice price of goods previously
imported into Kenya and 40% of the cost of civil works.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial
Development Bank, the Draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft Agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans to development
finance companies.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 23, 1975



Paeg f--
ODt8ThT 0096 - ONYA
~~6_2,Nd, ko2                           (aid-1972)                             ft~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr btor areble land
S;CIAL INDICATORS
K.ny.                                mou Raeeen  Cunrte
08? PNR cAfl?A oS$ (ATLAS BSIS)                                    ..          170 La           120 /a~      310 /a      300A~
C-ded birth rate (per thoxusan)                                  50           1.8 gd.7 Li                   28           ?' AL..t
Crd. death rate (par thou,ad)                                  O0c           1               2 
Infnt mortality rate (per thouand lir. birth.)                  ..55                    16o-16   Oi          ~.L.S
Lifa cpopctancy at birth (years)                              1.0-15 /                         1.           65          63
Oroas repeoductia~~~~~~~~~ rat. /2            .. ~~~~~3.1                  3.2          2.5         2.3
PO-uaingowhrt                                                     .          3.2 If           3 .0/        2.2 /f       2.L
Population grouth rate - urban.                                                7Zj,h            5%           6ZE          2
Age structure (percent)
0-li.                                         1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~6/n.j.  1.                    o 11LeO.
51           1.8              53           57           5
65 and ov.r  7ol-o.                                                        1                0            O             .
Egame      nce,   ny  rMio                                      1.4.                          12           10           .
Urban populXation as percent of total                             8&,a        10&        ~      7Lt          .   i       11 
Fasdly Plaxoningt go. of acoePtors c.. t..thul-
go. of wears (1 of married wn)                  ..
YTotlLbor fooo (thouadond)                                    3,300 Li     5,l00L49,        5.60  Li~   10.500 /a       250
Poroenagge aetployed in aogitcakr.                             ..90 4o                       911   i      4.8          30
Plaromatage, ,mOWcimly.                                        ...                            .         5              17
ftie  lit of on    lIcoe. reosivd by hig,.st 5%                 .                            31.1
P.,rwot of naational Incom  received by h1gh* t 20%              .                             60           37
Percet of natina Iincom reomived by lowest 209                    ..                            5           10 
P_eroent of ntioal Iancome recaivod by lowest 1. O                             .               11.          21.
MSMIWJrMN OF LASDO 0E0IJ=N2
% eO     ysala %        o   .,r                                   ..                            .2
R!A.LTR ANiD NIJrITTON
Pop,laEMosper phyoician                                      11, 000 In.    7,80/          21,8570 /     2,210 /A     1,0910
PopuletiOo per ,ouraing person                                1,610 ~tt1,7.7                L ,9  LI     1,760 Z.:      8O3
PopulAtion per hoopital bad                                     810 [         770             70  i3     1,920          250
Per copito caloric supply an % of requiromenota /       ~       103     ~     101              73          103          lot.
For capita protein supply, total (grass per d.ayY6               75      ~     71              h33        . 65           50
Of skich, animal and pulse                                     32      ~     29              23           19 lo.,      19
Death rate 1-i. yearn /7                                         ...                            .            .          1.5 Lr
BORCATIORA
Jd3-td /8pimr       adchl enrorlleent rOtio                      1.~           67              37    ~     104.         105
Aduat.d     escoedary school anrolleent ratio                     3Li           9L.             3    w      41 .1Z
Terso scholing provided, first and secnd level                 1313                          1312ii
Vocatinal1  nofllesnt ae S of sec. school enroUneot              12             2               1.          15            1
dlt literacy rate J1                                           .             30 &            ..           81 inb
A"rarge No. of persona par roo  (urban)                         2.5 In.        .                .2.7
Percent of occupied units without piped water.,                                 .    .         .             80 h
Accoss t oelectricity Cas 5g of total populatlon)                ...                            .50
Percent of fural peplatio    onnected to eleotri.ity             ...                            .30
Radio rciesper ID Population                                      9he8An                       16 /    ~   128 ft       128
Oa.n.  aepr1000 pepulatiso                                  8 lcd        9    ad          3    s.d     2          17 16
lcrcp.rcon,sumption (knd  ..                              5047                         31 L         392L        30 
N,sprint consueption p.c. kg per Fear                                          0.1.05a01                   37            .8L
Notes..,Piue    refs  ei1ther to the letest periods or to           account oferrsetl eprtr,bo7Wih. 
the latest  eac . Ltcet periods refe- In principle t           distribution by age and sex of national pepulatione.
the yeas' 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest yea.- in, pm-t              Potei. atandard. (roqui-aete) for all counti.io   as -atab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                     -       lished by USDA econmic Researcb S.-ei.e provide for a cimium
/a  The Per Capita OfP esUtiat  Is Ct market prices for             allconcen of 60 graes of total protein per day, wM  20 grams of
years other than 1960, col.ulated by t-he me. con.eraion        anItsa  and pIca. protein, of ..hich 10 grase should be animal
tachiqu Z  o lanho 1972 Worid Bank Atlas.                       plotein. Th= a, OtJ.ods era somechat l0wer than those of 75
/2 Averge noahr of daughter. per women of rpeodudotive              grans of total protein and 23 Cree  of animal protein as an
ago                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~arerge for the world, prepo.d by FLO In the Third World Pod
Zj  Ibpul.tion (moth rates ace for the d .. dO3 ending in           surecY.
1960 and 1970.                                                  So.. atudiee have suggested that crud  ds'ath rtate  of children
P.otio of poplationfunder.15.and 65 ewd ovor to pnuia-            "ane  1 throu,gh 4. eamy he asd as O first approoteotion inde  of
tion of ages 15-61. fr AP~ drpr,ency ratio and to :labor        mal-teHtion.
force of age- 15-61. f.r economic d.p-.d-cOy ratio.        L/. Prce-tego enrolled of correspn.ding popauicU      of school ag.
LZ FoO reoeo      -st,iar'i  rpueo     pW.yolioogO1l s-              as defined for each country.
qoirecoote for nrormA. ativity and health, taklng
la  19721     /b Pajoland Tansanlia     /c  UN estinate for Afrir,an population, based on enatlyrie of datea f.cp 1962 poat-
C'nsel nampl. our-ny;     Id  ONl etinate orw 1965-70;     Li* 19671    /r 1960-72;      LJ  l6?-.69;    A   2,000-or mor
Inhabitants;    /I TonCanyiks only;      /1 15 p-rttnd tow,no6iptt, 1957.67;     A    seoul city and evUniipalitlen of
50   or core;  /I   Procl.aiad township', *ccor.inc to enlarged limits as of Auguct 1963, plus the town of MAkehurg;
19t2;      Ln  8.od on coop2.t eV  eusrotion of non-Atrira   population and of urben   African popolation and on a 10 per-
c-nt saAple or ror.1 AfricOn population;     /.  1969;     Ig  Labor forco in age bracket 15-59; ~R 16 gasetted toenehips;
~g1971;       Xuabo r on the regitotr, not all working in the country;    4Lt looluding mIdwves, .oeietant oldin-e and
*noren      /u  1973;       E.Leima?t.;  /v  1968;   /x  bcduding teacher training at the third level;     L&   Hou.eheldv;
,Ls  -55 yrO." and overn.  aa1961;      /ob  Dfifnition of l1teracy unkno-s.   -./c  Water piped inoide I/ad Including vhce
operated by police or other lp-rOoeet oecurit    owgaoin.atlon and light co..marCia  vehClcls;    a.e  RogIstered only'.
Mauritius hao bren selected aa an roxmplo of a predominantely xpricultoral rocnoomy. which ia follmutog anne enlightened
polirloe designe.d to diversify production and prcoote aerrlermtrd ind-strielizotion-.
86 Ap.ril 21, 1975



8320883!C INVROPMENT DATA                                                 Pg 
(Azsouimta in miiliona or u.s. dollars)
Actual                    Polectd                            19064 -   1.973 -  193      19 75    19 78
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS     ~T97~                           1974      1975     97 6      1,1               1972      1978      17
NATIONAl ACCOImTS                        ~~~~~At 1973 Prices anLd- Exchange Rstes    Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                                  2.o337    2,442      2,.575   2,703      2,981              6.7       5.0      100.0    106.1    107.6
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                            -          - 66      '-148    4162       -211                .___
Gross Domestic Income                                   2,337      2,376      2, 4-27  -23z     -2,7-70              65-       3.5s    roo-o    100.0  -100.0-
Imports 'incl. NES)                                       728        780        804      814       835               6.1       2.5      31.2    33.1     30.1
Exports       (import capacity)                          6.75       .586j.     601      633       710               2.8       1.0      28.9     24.8    25.6
Resource Gap                                                53       194        203      181       125                                  -2.3    -8.4      4. 5
Consumption Expenditures                                1,797      1,905      1,962    2,030      2,156              6.6       3.7      76.9    80.8     77.8
Investment    '. (cine. stocks)                           593        665        668      692        739             11.6       4.5      25.4    27.5     26.7
Domestic Savings                                          540        471        465      511        614              5.9       2.6      23.1    19.2     22.2
National Savings                                          518        441        445      491        594              5.0       2.8      22.2     18.3    21.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
1U   197-1     1973                                                                          15P/3
Imports
Capital goods                      122.4    170.5     175.2                                                                         27.7
Tntermediate goods (mi.f'ue1s)    173.2     214.2     272.6                                                                         43.1
Fuels and related materials         41.3     47.4      67.0                                                                         10.6
of which:   Petroleum            (41.3)   (47.4)    (67.0)                                                                       (10.6)
Consumpt, ion good                 105.8    128.1     117.6                                                                         1.
Total Merch . Tprts kcif)         442.7     560.2     632.4                                                                        100.0
Exports
Flrim~arY Prodtucts (eXrl. f'uels)  144.7   135.8     256.2                                                                         54.7
Fuiels and related materials       40.3      51.4      61.7                                                                         13.2
of which:   Petroleum           (40.3)    (51.4)    (61.7)                                                                       (13.2)
MAanufactured goodls              103.6     112.6     150.1                                                                         32.1
Total M4erch. Exports (fob) j/   -n.-_W_              487iWTO~
Tourism and Border. Trane          25        76        70
Merchandise Trade indices                                1973 - 100
Export Price Index                                     ioo        142        140     153         169
import Price index                                     too       156        178      194         222
Terms of Trade index                                   100         91         79      79          76
Exports volume index                                   1oo         92       110      117         137
vAL;uE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1964      Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
tMonetary sector onsy)               1964    1972       1973                                                1964-1973                  19b4     197.i    19/3
AgricuItuire                       156    2~45       264                                                    5.8                     23        20       20
industry and Mining                132    254        282                                                    852                                1       2
Services (incl. Govt.)             387    708        750                                                    78.                     20        21       22
Total Monetary Sector             675   1,207      1,296                                                   7.                                0        0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                  In current prices and exchange rates                                                      sPreto         D
(CEentral G-overnment)646                     717     727           734       745      756        778
Current Receipts                   3T      39         M         56          65        71           4197
Current Expenditures               159     337      374          444        440      511         647                                         17.5
Badgetary Savings-2                         61       45           92                 16242.
Expenditures in
Development Budget                  38     145      173          165        247      322         420                                          8.1
US $ million
CURRENT FYPENDITURE DETAILS            _- -   ctual         Prelim.    Est.       Pro.        DTIONAc.d17/                                              ?YdE,
As % Total Curren    Expnd.           194/65   1972/73    1973/74    1974/76    19/7/70    PRtDLIC SETCO%R                                        o
Education                                11      28          27         28         27       INVESTMET PROGRAM4                    (1974 /75   - 1977 /78)
Other Social Serv-ices                   8       10           9          9    9             Social Sectors                         199             16
Agriculture                              9        8           8          7    7             Agriculture & Water Development        445             35
Other Economic Services                  3       11          10         17         15        industry and Mining                    42              3
Administration and Defense              30       27          26         26         21        Power  and C;mmuications               78              6
(Other                                  39       16          20         13         21       Transport and construction             232             18
Total Current Expenditures             100      100         100T 1-00-          -f-         Ohr2022~
Total Expenditures              US$ 1,27G million     100%
SELEC~T_D IN4DICATORS                                          1965-              1973-        FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)                         1970              1978
Av.erage ICOOM7351                                                                                 ulcS~trSvns393
Irrport Elasticity1.0                                            0.50             Domestic Borrowing                 347             27
Marginal Domestic Savings Nate                                  0.29             0.17             Foreign Project Aid                54
Marginial National Savings Rate                                 0.22             0.18             Total Financing             US$ 1,276 million     100%
IABOR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (1971     --   Prices& Exe. Rates)
OUTPrJT PER WORKER                      In Millions                7. of Total                        In U.S. Dollars                 Percent of Average
1971                         1971                               1971                                1971
Agriculture                                4,647                         86                                109                                  36
Industry                                     141                          3                             1,426                                 475
Service                                      301                          6                             1,286                                 429
Total                                      5 ,377                       100-                               300                                 100
-not applicabl           - i    rnegligiblie            p - preliminary
sot avafIlable        -- less than. halflU' 1h         /   including unspecified exports and re-exports                              EACPIC
smallest unit showni         2/  Non-oil                                                                    April 23, 1975



8LAIM OF PO            MEL ArSITag aeANDPaAJ                               D                   I
soint. in eSniots of U.S. dolla    at urret prices 
Avg. Aaeuaal        Ang. Annmat
Actual                       hIlmiS                         Prolse edhrot Rate                                  0rtbh Rt
1970        1971       1972        1973         1974.       1975        1976       1977        1.78       1S73   -     1         1974-1978
suMMARY OAtANCE OF PAYWINTS
Ezparte CO-c. 873)                   473.2       508.9      557.6       675.0      8194.3         1055.1     1177.7      1352.5     1505.7                  17.4          13.9
Loepertu (bncl.NFS)                  524.9       654.8      631.2       728.1      190.6         1367.5      1508.8     1640        17560.0                    30.3.
9i~~Thce.neiflI-?4)  ~~~~~-rr          -urrr        irrr   r      r       -r              3w"        33f       -1IB0       -254.3                  3 7.0         -3.8
Interest (net)                         4.8         2.1        4.5        -2.6      )              )          )           )
3ireat I-reaflent Innosa             -27.7       -26.9       -28.9      -43.4      )-56.8         )-53.2     )-56.0     )-58.8      )-61.6                  )8.5          )2.0
Werker,  Re-tt-ance                     -          -           -                                                --
2-r-nt Tronfere (nat)               5.6 59.3                  27.4       24.2                    ..J.!i   25.2  .. 2      J    2.n L                                       3.1
b lance on Currat Accout;fA                     -7112.4      -7.         ZL        -3             .624       ;4         ;A           is.R                                  35
_____________  *LL      -Wa.        ..ZLA  ~~~~~~~~~LZ..                            .J*W        .zMW    ~~~~~flLZ                   JL& j.W       -3.
Private Direct T-tasant               56.4        58.8        59 9       47 5        56.u           60.0       65.0        70.0       75.0                    9.5          6.0
Official Capital Granta 4/
'jble )ItT Leans
DMsbarns,e-,tO                      30.3        48.1        66.5       60.9        62.0          104.0      136.0       143.0      147.0                  19.2          24.0
-Repa5r-ntS                          7.3          7.8        10.7       12.7        18.0          t6.0        22.0        27.0       20                    naR0          20.0
Net Di.b-rneente                      23.0        40.3        55.8       48.2                       88.0      114.0       116.0      118.0                   19.7         25.2
Other .ALT Ians 1/
Dinhurerecnto                                                                                    214.4      182.9       140.6      112.7
-Re aceuntone                                                                                                  -           5 0
Net Dirbut3ea 214.4 135.7 c                                                                            tu                   l
COp4tal Transaahaecs n.a.i. 2/        20.3       -52.1       -10.2        9.4        137.5                                    3&t r97             1572                 t IS74  o
Change in Net Reeatrve 3/             .50.7       65.4       -34.9      -30.2        84.0        1auAND    J
_17                                                                         rc    lt vur. S Ih&EFU R atbreed  283.7  311.8  366.6     401.3       445.8
G.RANT AND LOAN OD IIIIITS
ar ictia  Orants & Grant-lie                                                                       7tertat S P8b6i1 Debt        11.5      12.3     14.8      16.1        10.2
T-Ibli~~~~~~~~ MLT L... ~~~~~~~~~~Rqayuntra On Public Debt                                              7 .5      7.8      10.7     12.7        10.3
InbRic                                 8.3        23.0        29.0       34.0         10.4         Total PUblic Debt Service    18. a     20.1     2535      280,        36. 6
iDA                                 18.7          -        28.0          -         33 5          Otl Debt Se3-e    (nt)        ..       ..        ..
Otaerceects                          10 5       40.4        20.0       55.2         95.7
S5ppliera                             1.1        7.3          _          _                       Public Dcbt S3noe             4.0       3.9      4.6       4.3         4.1
Financial Ittutieom                   -          2.5        17.3        1.6                      T Total Debt Servic           ..       .. 
Pl:blic Lc." -e..                     2.1                                                        PDSaDirect Devet. 7bc.        9.8      9.2       9.8      10.7        10.4
P:b1ie Loans n.e.i.                   2.1         -           --
tai   m- sT      f-                               7T                                            Avage Tee    of Public Debt
Actual Debt outetuding or Se. 31, 0974 e/                Ct. as % Prior Year D&D       4.3       4.3      4.7       4.4         4.5
I1TOR,AL 781r-                              fltb'.o     OnAwc irot. 8a S Prior TYa                                         155D    2.7       2.8      3.4       3.5         4.6
hanrd Bank                                       62.2                  i4.0
Otr                                             74.6                   16.7                     r.RD Debt Ort. & Diebureed
. ther &LltiSateral                               4.9                    1.1                           u   Pblbc Debt G6D        1.9       3.8      8.9      12.4        14.0
Cpovpr ranta                                    247.4                   33.5                           a 55 Public Debt Sreeice  7.6       2.1      5.4      10.0        11.7
Suappliers                                      .99                     2.2
?Cnaccial Insthtuttane                          19.4                   4.4                     7DA Debt Out. & Dabured
Panda                                           27.4                    6.1                           a S Public Debt o0D       11.2      11.2     12.0      15.8        16.7
publ   b C       Dbte n.e.                        - _-                                               so S Prblic Debt Ssowu      0.8       1.2      1.3       1.7         1.4
Total Publc 9MhLS Debt                         445.8                   100.0
Ot.hcr YT  Debts
Sh-rt-tre  Dobt (diub. cn7l)
cat applicablo                                              aetaff    stints
. net val-able                                                 - nil or nugl7ible
vaot avaddablo ieprsidy                                     -- leoo than half the
but inclade-q in total      fi-                                 aset rnit ehoen
1/ 1-Edstced roqaired copita Idafd t.                          4/     ludd to   urret traof.ra (not).
2/ IClados ollunofIMc of -Dit. ot errors sd                   P.setoca.  j/  Na.lIicary ftgra..                                         EACPIC
3/  lacliadon uce of 7MF credit.                                                                                                        April 23. 1975



ANNEX II
Page  1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at May 31, 1975
Loan or                                                     (US$ million)
Credit #   Year  Borrower       Purpose              Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank  IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Three (3) loans and nine (9) credits,
fully disbursed                                     32.1   40.0
641     1969    Kenya  Forest Plantations           2.6                0.2
185    1970     Kenya  Education                           6.1         2.4
714    1970     NCC    Water Supply                8.3                 2.4
224    1970     Kenya  Road Maintenance                   12.6         2.5
745     1971    TRDC   Hydroelectric Develop.      23.0                1.1
276    1972     Kenya  Highways                           22.0         9.5
826     1972    Kenya  Nairobi Airport             29.0               13.4
344    1972     Kenya  Agricultural Credit                 6.0         4.2
932    1973     Kenya  Highways                    29.0               29.0
946     1973    IDB    DFC                          5.0                3.5
468     1974    Kenya  Population                         12.0        12.0
477     1974    Kenya  Livestock                          21.5        21.2
993     1974    Kenya  Tea Factories               10.4                9.4
1093    1975     Kenya  Group Farm Credit            7.5                7.5
537     1975    Kenya  Group Farm Credit                   7.5         7.5
1105    1975     Kenya  Site and Service             8.0                8.0
543    1975     Kenya  Site and Service                    8.0         8.0
1117    1975     Kenya  Program Loan                30.0               30.0
TOTAL                        184.9  135.7      170.8
of which has been repaid     7.0    0.1
Total now outstanding       177.9   135.6
Amount sold      5.1
of which has
been repaid    4.3            .8
Total now held by
Bank and IDA              177.1   135.6
Total undisbursed           103.5    67.3      170.8
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page  2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at May 31, 1975
Year               Obligor          Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity    Total
1968 & 1973   Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels              5.2     0.7      5.9
1970 & 1974   Pan African Paper Mills Pulp & Paper        11.9     5.7     17.6
1972          Tourism Promotion
Services               Hotels              2.4       -      2.4
Total Gross Commitments                              19.5     6.4     25.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                6.2     1.8      8.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                    13.3     4.6     17.9
Total Undisbursed                                     3.0     0.0      3.0
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Loan 639 - Highways:   $23.5 million Loan of October 10, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975. Construction is substantially completed.
There has been a 45 percent increase above original cost estimates due
mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation: $2.6 million Loan of
November 7, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Progress is
satisfactory and disbursements proceeded faster than envisaged, and
the Loan was almost fully drawn down a year before Closing Date.
Planting and technical aspects are satisfactory.
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970;
Closing Date:   December 31, 1975.   Construction is proceeding at a
slower rate than anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it
is expected that all project institutions, except two, will be com-
pleted prior to the Closing Date. An extension of the Closing Date
of about 12 months is likely to be required in order to complete the
two project items lagging behind.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced eval-
uation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 714 - Water Supply: $8.4 million Loan of November 7,
1969; Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Good progress has been made
on the main project items, and water was delivered to Nairobi on
schedule in March 1974. A twelve-month postponement of the Closing
Date, however, was required to enable completion of ancillary items.
The Water and Sewerage Department is still experiencing staffing
shortages in its engineering and commercial sections due to inability
to attract and retain staff. The financial results of water operations
are generally satisfactory and water tariffs have now been increased.
Cost overruns, which are mainly due to local cost increases, are
about 31 percent over the appraisal estimates.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of
December 28 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1975. This project is
progressing well, although its final completion is now expected to
be delayed till December, 1976 - eighteen months behind the original
schedule. The delay is due to some unforeseen difficulties experienced
in acquisition of land and procurement of steel required for construc-
tion of the workshops. Most of the equipment has been received and
installed, and the Highway Training Center is in operation. While the
majority of the senior posts in the Roads Branch have been filled,
a few are still vacant due to difficulties in finding suitably qual-
ified specialists.
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric: $23.0 million Loan of
June 7, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The project was com-
missioned in August 1974 and there are only a few minor details
outstanding. Cost escalation was 7 percent, principally the result
of currency fluctuations, the imposition of a sales tax in 1973 and
an increase in engineering costs. The closing date has been post-
poned from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975 because some retention
moves are not due till then.
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed
by a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to a review
of paving standards undertaken by Government and consequent delays in
obtaining governmental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high
bid prices and specification changes, total estimated .cost of the proj-
ect may exceed the appraisal estimates by over 25 percent.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. The major contracts have been awarded,
and work has commenced. Inadequate supervision by the key contractor
and administrative delays by the Government have led to delays in the
physical execution of the project. Financial and organizational prob-
lems persist. There is likely to be a cost overrun of about $10.5
million. Some key. positions, including that of the Airport Manager,
still remain unfilled. The project is now expected to be completed
by December 31, 1976 rather than by December, 1975 as originally anti-
cipated. The Closing Date of this Loan may have to be extended to
December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page  4
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of
November 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The Agricultural
Finance Corporation has started a second phase of lending operations,
following the completion of the first under Credit 105. Progress is
satisfactory, and disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977. This Loan was made effective
on November 9, 1973. Owing to a review of paving standards, bids
have yet to be invited for about 30 percent of the works. Cost
overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan
of November 29, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1976. The Loan has been
fully committed and negotiations for a second tranche have been sub-
stantially completed. So far about $1.5 million has been disbursed.
Credit 468 - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit became effective on
July 31, 1974. The construction for this project is estimated to be
about 6-8 months behind schedule. There have also been some delays in
the employment of technical experts.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5,
1974; Closing Date: December 21, 1980. This credit was declared
effective on December 2, 1974. Work on the ranching component is now
proceeding, but the project is behind schedule.
Loan 993 - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Loan became effective September 23,
1974. Contracts for the first four tea factories have been let but the
tendering for remaining tea factories is behind schedule.
Credit 537/Loan 1093 - Group Farms Rehabilitation Credit and
Loan of March 27, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This Credit
and Loan is not yet effective.
Credit 543/Loan 1105 - Site and Service Project of May 6, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit and Loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5
D.   Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as at May 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan #  Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                         75.0
638 EA   1969  EAHC     Harbours                    35.0       5.3
674 EA   1970  EARC     Railways                    42.4      17.3
675 EA   1970  EAPTC    Telecommunications          10.4       0.2
843 EA   1972  EADB     Development Finance          8.0       7.2
865 EA   1972  EAHC     Harbours                    26.5      17.8
914 EA   1973  EAPTC    Telecommunications          32.5      18.5
Total                           229.8      66.3
of which has been
repaid                         29.8
Total now outstanding           200.
Amount sold:        24.4
of which has
been repaid       24.4          0
Total now held
by Bank                       200.0
Total Undisbursed               66.3



ANNEX II
Page 6
E.   East African Community
Loan No. 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
This Loan was suspended on February 13, 1975. The reasons
for suspension and conditions for lifting the suspension are discussed
in para. 23 of this President's Report.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan of
August 25, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position
although there have been problems in transferring funds from regional
offices to headquarters. Damage to a partially completed pier has
delayed project implementation. It is now expected that the construc-
tion will finish in mid-1975. Legal questions resulting from the dam-
age are under study by the Government.
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works
under this project. CosL overruns have been experienced in some project
items. The situation is under study by the Corporation, which will
shortly issue a plan for speeding implementation.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project: $8.0 million
Loan of June 28,1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized with a resulting
strengthening of the Bank's supervisory capability.     Management problems
associated with decentralization have largely been rectified so that the
pace of bank operations is expected to quicken in FY76. Nearly $6.5 mil-
lion of the Loan has been committed.
Loan No. 675 EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1975
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommtnications Corporation due to the considerable existing decen-
tralization of operation authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash
position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Com-
munity Corporations; the situation will be improved by a pending rate
increase.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32. 5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Procurement is generally on schedule with $20 million committed
and the balance near tender stage. All major items are expected to be
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to long
lead time for delivery, will be delayed by 18 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
K1l YA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:                Industrial Development Bank
Guarantor:               Republic of Kenya
Amount:                  US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms:                   Repayable substantially in conformity with the
Aggregate of the amortization schedules for
sub-loans and investments for which withdrawals
from the loan account are approved or requested;
interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:         IDB would relend at an interest rate prevailing
in Kenya at the time of sub-project authorization
for up to 15 years. The exchange risk would be
assumed fully by sub-borrowers. IDB is currently
charging an interest rate of 11%.
Purpose:                 To meet IDB's financial requirements for the
financing of the foreign exchange component of
large- and medium-scale industrial projects
through 1978.
Final Date for
Project Submissions:   June 30, 1979
Free Limit:              $400,000 for individual sub-projects; $2.0 million
aggregate limit.
Debt Covenants:          Maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1.
Estimated
Disbursements:         Calendar year       1975    1976    1977    1978
US$ million         0.25    6.05     3.1     0.6
Procurement:             Through normal commercial channels.
Appraisal Report:        Report No. 709-KE, dated May l9t 1975.
DFC Department, Africa Division



ANNEX IIT
Pat z of 2
Year ending December 31           1974     1975      1976     1977     1978
(iZn -000) -         -
Projected Commitments:
Loans                          600     3,121    2,610     2,787    2,917
Equity                         349       95        675     .650      650
Total               949      4-OL6    32285    3,437     3 567
Projected Income Statements8
Total revenue                   64       198      390       674      965
Financial and admninis-
trative expenses              74       191      353       560      754
Provisions                      15        47       84        85       87
Income Tax (Assumed Tax
Exempt)                      -         - 
Net income                   (  25)       40)       47)9             124
As a % of net worth        ( 2.1)   ( 2.4)     ( 2.2)     1.1      4.2
Projected Balance Sheets:
Current assets               1,273     1,131      954     1,040      864
Portfolio                      583     2,432    5,662     8,842   11,871
Fixed assets (net)              23        24       28       .24       21
Total assets       l, 79     3,58761           9,906    12,756
Current liabilities              4         4       4 4      169      429
Long-term debt                 400     1,648    14,212    6,820    9,286
Net worth                    13475     1,935    2,388     2,917    3,041
Total liabili-ties
and new worth              1,879     3,587    6,6b4    9906     12,756
Debt/equity ratio            01l:1     0.9:1    1-8:1     2o.4:1   3.2:1



