Report No. 709a-KE                                                                01LE  COPY
Appraisal of the
Industrial Development Bank
Kenya
May 19, 1975
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the a(curacy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Note: The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya
Shilling. However, in conformity with the prevalent
practice in Kenya, most large values in this report are
expressed in Kenya pounds; K61 = KShs 20.
Khl = TJS $2.80
1T5 $1 = K16.357 = KShs 7.14
ABEREVIATIONS
DFCK   Development Finance Company of Kenya
EADB   East African Development Bank
ICDC   Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB    Industrial Development Bank
ISPC   Industrial Survey and Promotion Center
FISCAL YEAR
Government:     July 1 - June 30
IDB:            January 1 - December 31



APPRAISAL OF TTE
INDUSTRIAL DEVLCPMENT BAK
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SUOZIARY                 .......... 9 ii
I.   INTRODUCTION . . . .                               v       1
II.    ENVIRON1ENT. . a .                                        2
The Economy. . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
The Industrial Sector.        ..........              2
Government's Industrial Policies and Plan  . . .4
Prospects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8
III.    FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
The Stock Exchange .  ..............                  9
Commercial Banks    ..............                    9
Development Finance Institutions . . . . . . . .     10
IV.    THE C01LPANY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      I 2
Background  1                     *a&ooooo           -2
Relationship with ICDC. . . . . .  .. .. . . .       12
Board of Directors .      .... ....                  12
Management and Staff.. ... .        . . . . . . . .        13
Operating Policies and Onlending Terms . . . . .     13
Procedures . . . . . . . . . t. . . . .   .   a .     5
Auditors and Lawyers . . . .  .. . . .. .. . .       16
V.   OPERATIONS ANID FINAN4CE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
VI.   PROSPECTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      lB
Business Outlook t   k....       ..L8
IDB's Strategy . . . . . . ...........               18
Forecast Cperations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     19
Resource Requirements. . . .  . . . . . . . . . .     O
Forecast Financial Results..  .. . . . . .X          21
Increase in Share Capital. .    . . . . . . . .      21
VII.   GUNCLUSIONS AND RECOM1/0IDATIONS. . . . . . . . . . .     23
This report was prepared by -Messrs. J. Bloom and T. Tsui on the basis
of their mission to Kenya in December 1974.



LIST OF ANNEXES
1. ICDC: Financial Statements
2. ICDC: Investments in Large- and Medium-Size Companies
3. Promotion Agreement Between GOK and ICDC
4. IDB: Board of Directors
5.  IDB:  Organization Chart
6.  IDB:  Statement of Policy
7.  IDB:  List of Approved Projects
B.  IDB::  List of Project Possibilities
9.  IDB:  Assumptions for Projected Financial Statements
10.  IDB:  Actuial and Projected Operations (1974-79)
11.  IDB:  Actual and Projected Financial Ratios ( 1974-79)
12.  IDB:  Actual and Projected Income Statements (1974-79)
13.  IDB:  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1974-79)
14. IDB:  Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements (1971-79)
15.  IDB:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan.



KENvA
(i)
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
BASIC DATA
Exchange Rate:                K1 = US $2.80
Date of Formation:            January 12, 1973
Date of Start of Operations: April 1, 1973
Ownership:                                                KL'OOO        %
Government                    980         49
Industrial and Commercial  1,020          51
Development Corporation
2,000        100
1973        19
Loans                               (KI' 000)
Approvals                     550        1,784
Commitments                     -          600
Disbursements                   -          400
Equity Investments
Approvals                      55          669
Cammitments                     -          349
Disbursements                   -          198
Resource Position (as of December 31. 197L)
(K1' 000)
Domestic       Foreign
currency       exchange        Total
Sources
Share capital (paid-in)                     1,500             _          1,500
Less: accumulated losses                      (25)            -            (25)
Borrowings available:
IBRD - Loan 946-KE (7O )                      -        1,786           1,786
DEG  (8%)                                     -           570            570
Total sources                               1,475         2,356          3,831
Uses
Fixed assets                                   23             -             23
Loans and equity investments                  198           400            598
IJndisbursed commitments                      151           200            351
Total uses                                    372           600            972
Available for commitments                    1,103         1,756          2,859
Uncommitted approved investments               375         1,734          2,109
Available for approvals                        728            22            750
_s_-



-ii-
Interest Rate and Other Charges
Interest rate:       10 - 11% per annum
Commitment charge:   1% on undisbursed conmitments
Basic Data on Bank Loan
A. Status of Loan (as of May 15, 1975)
US I million
Date of                    Loan
Effectiveness                Amount       Authorized     Disbursed
946-KE  March 26, 1974                   5.0           5.0           2.46
B. Summary of Features of Loan 946-KE:
1)  Foreign exchange risk:  At IDB's option, either fully assumed
by clients or, with concurrence of
Government, the Ksh/TJS $ risk assumed by
clients and TIS $/disbursement currency
risk borne by Government.
2) Final date for project submission: March 31, 1976
3)  Closing date for disbursements:    March 31, 1978
4) Free limit:                          US $200,000
5) Aggregate free limit:                US $1,000,000
6)  Commitment charge:                  0.75% from date of authorization
to withdraw for each subproject.



- iii -
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDTSTRIAL DEVELOPMEIT BANK
SIJMMARY
(i)       The Industrial Development Bank (IDB) was formed in 1973 with
the cooperation of the Bank, Government of Kenya, and the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) to finance medium- to large-
scale industrial projects. That year, a Bank loan ($5 million) was made
to IDB which is now fully committed. IDB has begun tapping alternative
sources of overseas finance, but it continues to require additional fin-
ance from the Bank to meet its operations program.
(ii)      Although the industrial sector has grown rapidly (9% per annum)
in recent years, the impact of recent international economic events is ex-
pected to cause serious balance of payments problems and to slow growth.
The Government has started to revise its Development Plan to reflect an
anticipated resource shortage and to scale down the projected growth of manu-
facturing output and investment. New emphasis is being placed upon max-
imizing effective use of existing idle capacities to reduce the need for new
investments, encouraging exports from the agricultural, mining, and wood-
processing sectors, replacing imports with economic domestic production, and
seeking more joint ventures with foreign investors. Selecting projects on
the basis of rigorous economic and financial standards has become essential.
(iii)     IDB has made a good start; by December, 1974 it had approved 11
loans amounting to KU2.3 million and 8 equity investments totalling K1,O.8
million in such areas as agro-industries, textile, mining, tourism, and trans-
portation. The projects, all Kenyan-controlled, have included several export
processing industries drawing supplies from smallholder farmers and a number
located in smaller cities and rural areas. IDB has made increasingly signi-
ficant contributions to project designs.
(iv)      However, commitments and disbursements have lagged somewhat primarily
due to: (a) IDB's efforts to improve the design of projects which had been
formulated before IDB had begun its own operations, and (b) staff build-up
slower than expected. IDB's management is taking appropriate steps to stream-
line project processing and has virtually completed the task of staffing.
(v)       One factor which has constrained IDB's operations is its maximum
exposure limit; IDB's management expects to resolve the problem by doubling
its share capital from KL2.0 million to KLh.O million. IDB also expects to
increase its impact on industrial financing by serving as agent for invest-
ments for Government account. Overall, IDB's policies and procedures have
been satisfactory.



- iv -
(vi)      IDB is not expected to show a net profit until 1977 primarily due
to its high administrative costs during the initial years relative to its
slower growth in overall operation. Much of the costs are associated with
the hiring of high-caliber staff within the local job market to undertake
IDB's operational program. It has now assembled a competent, capable staff,
assisted by two advisers, one seconded from IBRD and another from a bi-
lateral assistance agency.
(vii)     IDB conservatively forecasts its operations to grow at an estimated
10% per annum, averaging KI,3.5 million per year in the next 3 years. As in
the past, IDB anticipates promoting and assisting projects which will not only
contribute to but also help to redirect Kenya's economic development, paying
particular attention to the opportunities for local resource-based manu-
facturing (e.g., agricultural processing) and dispersion of industry from the
major urban centers. In Kenya's currently constrained economy, IDB's project
evaluation skills take on greater importance.
(viii)    IDB is a creditworthy borrower for a Bank loan of $10.0 million
equivalent to fulfill part of its foreign exchange resource needs through
FY1977. IDB is making good progress in securing the remainder of its require-
ments from other sources.
(ix)      The proposed loan should be made on substantially the same terms as
the first, with two changes: (i) recognizing IDB's appraisal quality, the
individuial project free-limit should be raised from $200,000 equivalent to
$400,000 equivalent, with the aggregate free-limit raised to $2.0 million or
20% of the total loan; and (ii) IDB should pay the normal commitment charge
on the Bank loan, now that it is established.  The maximum debt/equity ratio
should remain at 3:1; the foreign exchange risk should be passed on to IDB's
borrowers. IDB will serve as an investor for Government's accoumt at no risk
to itself under the terms outlined in para. 4.09. IDB's Board has authorized
a share capital increase and Government has agreed to ensure its full sub-
scription by September 30, 1975. As for the first loan, the Bank will continue
to serve as an Executing Agency for IDB's TThDP-financed technical assistance
position.



I. INTRODTTCTION
1.01      The Industrial Development Bank Ltd. (IDB) was established in
1973 as the result of discussions since 1965 among the Bank, the Govern-
ment of Kenya and the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
(ICDC). A Bank loan of $5 million was extended to IDB in November 1973;
it is now fuily committed. IDB has requested further assistance from
the Bank. This report appraises IDB and recommends a Bank loan of US $10
million.
1.02      The main objectives of the proposed loan are:
(i) to provide term financing on appropriate terms to
medium- and large-scale industrial projects in Kenya
which have been well-conceived on economic, financial,
and technical grounds; and
(ii) to enhance IDB's role as an effective development insti-
tution by strengthening its project appraisal and resource
allocation capabilities, internal organization and pro-
cedures, and resource base.



- 0 -
II. THE ENVIRONMENT
The Economy
2.01      The current economic situation in Kenya is analysed in "The
Second Decade: A Basic Economic Report on Kenya", report number 201-KE,
dated January 15, 1974.
2.02      In mid-1973, Kenya had a population of 12.5 million, growing at about
3.3% per annum, and a per capita GNP estimated at T7S $170. While the agri-
cultural sector continues to dominate the economy in terms of contributing
more than one-quiarter of GDP, three-fifths of the foreign exchange earnings,
and the livelihood of approximately 85% of the population, the role of the
manufacturing sector has grown.  In fact, the manufacturing sector has recently
displaced agriculture as the largest contributor to GDP within the monetary
economy.
The Industrial Sector
2.03      Manufacturing output stood at 10.4% of GDP in 1964, whereas it comn-
prised over 12% of GDP in 1973 (at constant 1964 prices).   While gross
domestic product (at constant prices) grew at an annual rate of 6.6% between
1964-1973, the manufacturing sector grew at an annual rate of 8.8%.  Manu-
facturing's contribution to GDP (in current prices) in 1973 accounted for
nearly KL105 million which compares to only K634 million in 1964.
2.04      Manufacturing output in 1972 comprised the following sub-sectors:
Food processing                          26%
Equipment and Machinery                  19%
Chemicals and Oil Refining               14%
Textiles                                 10%
Transport Equipment Repairs              10%
Building Materials                        7%
Paper, Printing and Publishing            6%
Mining                                    5%
Others
100%



-3-
2.05    The sub-sectors showing the fastest growth rates were paper
and printing (18%), and food processing (12%). In paper production, even
fuirther increases are expected following the completion of a large K17
million paper mill at Webuye. Growth in food processing wss due to higher
production of sugar, fruit and vegetable canning, coffee milling and dpiry
industries. which offset setbacks for meat production cauised by drought
conditions. Meat production is expected to improve with better rainfall and
increased meat processing facilities. Other sub-sectors that showed high
growth were metal products and non-electrical machinery.
2.06      On the other hand, the clothing and weaving apparel sub-sector
declined in production by 35% as imported knitwear expanded its market share
and the Kenyan textile industry slowed operations to re-tool and manlfacture
its own knitwear. The non-metallic minerals sub-sector (primarily cement
production) declined by 1% due to the lower level of building activity in
Kenya.
2.07      Annual investment in the industrial sector in 1964 in current prices
amounted to about K66 million. The comparable fig,ure for 1973 was about
Kb3O million in current prices, or an average annual rate of increase of over
20%. Actual manufacturing investment under the Second Development Plan
(1970-73) represented nearly one-sixth of the total capital formation within
the monetary economy.
2.08      Government considers unemployment a major concern of its develop-
ment planning. Employment in the induistrial sector stood at 97,500 in 1973
which represented about 13% of total Kenyan wage employment. Recent increases
of about 6.6% annually in industrial employment are due to increased employ-
ment in food processing, textile production, and furniture manufacturing. The
current Developnent Plan (1974-78) projected an average annual increase in
industrial employment of 7.3% compared to an overall growth rate in modern
sector employment of 4.5% per annum; industrial sector growth was to be based
on a growth target in output of 10% (para. 2.l1) and new policies to encourage
higher labor intensity by increasing the cost of capital relative to that of
labor. In 1972, over 8 out of every 10 employees engaged in manufacturing in
Kenya were employed by one of the nearly 380 manufacturing firms (out of more
than 4h,000 firms) with 50 or more employees; such concentration iF expected to
be reduced as development of large-, medium- and small-scale indlustry proceeds.
2.09      Wage employment in Kenya is concentrated in the two largest cities
of Nairobi and Mombasa, with neqrly three-fouirths being absorbed in those
cities in 1973. This proportion is relatively unchanged from 1963. Within
the upper hierarchies of Kenyan enterprises, signs of successful Kenyanization
are evident (para. 2.28).
2.10      Industrial exports (including re-exports) in 1973 reached approx-
imately KL73 million, approximately 45% of Kenya's total exports (KE16l million).
Exports to the rest of the East African Community (Tanzania, TJganda) com-
prised 44% of industrial exports, primarily refined petroleum  and paper pro-
ducts. Industrial exports for 1973 included intermediate goods (31%),



L-   -
fuel (30%), processed foods (20%), conm-ner -,oods (16%), and machinery (3S)-.
The composition of exports has changed little in recent years.
2.11      Intermediate goods comprised approximately 54% of the value of
Kenya's imports of KE21R million in 1973 while capital goods and consumer
:,oo3ds made up the remainder with 28% and 18% respectively.
Uovernment's Industrial-Policies. and Plan
2.12      The 1970-1973 Development Plan.  Overall performance umder the Plan
appears to have been aenerally satisfactory.  Compared to the Plan's target
of 6.7 percent real economic agrowth per annum, the actual rate achieved was
6.5 percent, despite varying performances within the sectors.
2.13      Among the three major sectors (agriculture, manufacturing and trans-
portation) in which the highest levels of investment were envisa7ed for the
Plan period, manufacturing fared the best and attained an actuial investment
of K174h.5 million versus the target of Kb76.0 million - equial to 98% of target.
On the other hand, agriculture fell short of its tar;get by 20% as did trans-
portation by 19%. For the economy overall, the shortfall in investment was
estimated at 6%.
2.14      The 1974-1778 Development FPan.  The present Third Five-Year Plan
was is.sued in 197L4 before the adverse impact of the oil crisis on Kenya and
the 1973 economic statistics were known.  Government is currently adjusting
the Plan targets to the new situation.  While still tentative, Government is
likely to pursue the follo-wincr in the new Plan:  (i) consolidation strategy
to make more effective use of existing idle capacities, therefore reducing the
need to make large amounts of new investments; (ii) emphasis on manWfacturing's
export-orientation (especially in agricultural, mining and wood processing
gectors) with an evolution of newJ tariff policy conducive to this goal;
(iii) concentration on the agricultural sector for attaining greater self-
sufficiency and improving export potential; (iv) exploration of new sources
of energy, i.e., geo-thermal exploration, and ways to reduce fuel consumption.
As a result, targets for annual growth of value-added and investment in manu-
factlring are likely to be reduiced to 5 and 6 percent respectively.
2.15      The existing Development Plan sets forth a number of quantitative
targets; although these will likely be scaled down, the emphase- will probably
remain. -The real growth rate (GDP) aimed at was ?.4 percent per ann,zu as com-
pared to 6.5 percent attained diring the previous Plan period.  By 1978, GDP
was expected to murpasms KU1 billion with a per capita income of K168 (TS $190).
Fixed capital formation was expected to grow At 9% annually and total K1920
million (in constant prices) during the period, with manufacturing accounting
for 16% of total investment.



-5-
2.16      The Manufacturing Sector.  Growth in manufacturing is expected to
come not only from import substitution industries but from an increasing
emphasis upon production of exportable goods. The fastest growing sub-
sectors are expected to be pulp and paper, leather products, textiles,
chemicals, and miscellaneous food processing. The greatest level of new
investment is anticipated in textiles, metal products, manufacture and
chemicals.
2.17      Although the bulk of manufacturing output is expected to continue
to come from large and medium-scale enterprises during  the Plan period,
efforts are planned to develop small-scale industries, especially in the
rLral areas.  While recognizing the high costs involved, the Government is
prepared to continue establishing, training, and funding programs to assist
small enterprises through vehicles such as the village training centers, Rural
Industrial Development Centers, and other programs sponsored by ICDC. Dis-
cussions between Government and the Bank Group on possible assistance to small
business are continuing. With the exception of a possible IFC project still
in preliminary stages, no near-term assistance is foreseen given the extensive
bilateral support being provided (para. 3.09).
2.18      Together with increasing manufacturing's growth rate, the Plan sets
out additional objectives for 1974-78:  (i) production to increasingly cater to
the domestic market at prices comparable to international prices; (ii) Kenyani-
zation with encouragement of joint investment between local firms, Government
development institutions and foreign investors; and (iii) diversification with
increased production of machinery, equipment and intermediate goods.
2.19      Induistrial Regulation, Incentives and Protection.  Although possible
changes are under discussion, no provision currently exists in Kenya for
Government licensing of industrial enterprises but the East African Community,
through its East African Industrial Licensing Act, has exercised some control
over the establishment and operation of factories manufacturing a limited
nmmber of scheduled items.  However, foreign or local promoters of new in-
dustrial projects may apply to the New Projects Committee if they seek Govern-
ment backing.
2.20      Local or foreign promoters have the option to apply to a New Pro-
jects Committee (NPC) for a Certificate of Approved Enterprise which facilitates
a project's application for benefits such as remission 4nd refunds of import
duty on intermediate and capital goods, guarantee of foreign exchange availa-
bility for repatriation of profits, tariff protection or other concessions;
promoters needing Government support such as infrastructure development, raw
materials supply availability or plant sites also frequently seek;NPC approval.



-6-
The New Projects Committee is an informal forum for the evalluation and
approval of industrial projects; it is chaired by the Permanent Secretary
of Cormuerce and Industry and composed of representatives from the Ministrlr
of Finance and Planning, ICDC, IDB, DFCK and interested Govern-ent agencies.
The Conmittee's recommendations are normally passed on to the Ministry of
Finance and Planning who authorize the issuance of the Certificates.  While
considerations are r,iven to the economic benefits of new projects throuah
measures such as amount of local value-added, emplowment 7eneration and
foreiig exchanre savings, the Committee's primaryv concerns have t±baditionall
been the more practical aspects of how much protection is requiired to make a
project financially viable and whether on more subjective grounds the project
should be given priority.
2.21      Firms requesting specific remission or refund of import duties,
tariff protection, or import restriction must apply to the Industrial Pro-
tection Committee (IPC) which is headed by the Ministry of Finance and Plannin.,
and includes representatives fron Commerce and Industry, Customs authorities,
and other interested Government agencies.  Consistent with ;Government's intention
to rationalize the tariff structure and eliminate the remission and refund of
duty, IPC is expected to play a major part in the implementation of suich changes.
2.22      Projects that have cone to the Government's attention throuTh the
New Projects Committee or by some other means are freqluent'v referred to the
Industrial Survey and Promotion Center (ISPC) for assistance in flurther projezt
promotion and evaluation (para. 2.29), and also to ICDC, IDB, or other insti-
tuitions for possible financing and implementation.  In some cases, the develop-
ment finance institutions may seek out entrepreneurs or join with them early
in the project formulation process.
2.23      As an added incentive for export, Kenya introduced a manu-facturer's
Export Compensation Scheme in June, 1974 which provides for the payment to the
local manufacturer of 10 percent of the f.o.b. value of the manufac-tured gfoods
exported or 10 percent of the foreign currency received in payment for such
goods, whichever is less.
2.24      Corporate profit tax has recently been increased from 40 to 45 per-
cent of taxable profit, and to 52.5 percent for branches of foreign companies.
A 10 percent sales tax on manufactured goods, local and foreign, was also
introciced in 1973.
2.25      Kenya maintains a common external tariff system with its East African
Common Market partners, Tanzania and Uganda, which is administered by the East
African Community Customs and Excise Department.  The system provides pro-
tection to local manufacturers with tariffs on numerous finished goods
averaging 30 percent of the c.i.f. value, 20 percent on imported raw materials,
and higher duties on vehicle- and luxury products.  Specific duties 2re levied
*pon somw items such as textiles and clothing to protect local industries from
low-cost imports. As a community member, Kenya's exports to its partner states
are subject to transfer taxes equal to at moct 50 percent of the comnon



external tariff on items produced in Tanzania or TTganda.  At present
Kenya is conducting negotiations with the other member states to revise
the tariff structuire and attain more uniform protection levels so as to
enable Kenyan manufacturing to diversify into capital and intermediate goods.
2.26      Kenya has used import controls since independence in 1964 to pro-
tect its local "infant" industries in order to spur its industrialization.
TTnlike the tariff system, import licensing is whaTly under control of Kenyan
authorities and, for that reason, has been resorted to increasingly over the
years. The foreign exchange crisis of late 1971 precipitated a rise of
import controls to conserve foreign exchange.  Since then, the tightening or
relaxing of import licensing by Kenyan authorities has depended upon the
country's balance of payments situation as well as the level of industrial
protection thought to be required by local enterprises.  In light of its
recent balance of payments problems, the coumtry further tightened its con-
trol on imports in June, 1974. This action has imposed even greater burdens
on the already inadequate acministrative machinery for import licensing and
hampered manufacturer's efforts to obtain raw materials, parts, and other
items. However, the Minister of Commerce and Industry recently announced
intentions to remedy the problem as soon as possible.
2,27      In sum, past tariff and industrial policies have probably given
excessive protection to some impoirt-substitutirng industries while providing in-
sufficient incentives for local resource-based export manufacturing. In the
context of basic economic and sector work the Bank has discussed with Govern-
ment realignment of these policies to foster both greater and more widely dis-
tributed benefits from industrialization. Given the constraints imposed by
the need to reach agreementwith its East African Common Market partners, Kenya
has responded positively to the Bank discussions and is making satisfactory
progress towards restructuring industrial growth while preserving the incentives
for private sector development with increasing local participation.
2.28      Kenyanization.  The Government has made good progress in its drive
for Kenyanization of employment and ownership, concentrating primarily on
trade and agricuilture.  In the five-year period between 1967-1972, it has
been able to expand the percentage of high and middle level manpower posts in
the modern sector held by Kenyan citizens from 59% to 7h%. Transportation and
retail trade, previously dominated by Asian enterprises, have been increasingly
transferred to Kenyans through withdrawing and re-issuing commercial licenses.
Government has encouraged non-citizens as well as Kenyan traders to participate
more significantly in manufacturing enterprises. Both private and parastatal
institutions have been strongly encouraged to enter into joint ventures with
foreign investors. Where initiative from the private sector is not sufficiently
forthcoming, Government has expressed the willingness to take either a minority
or majority shareholding in new investments with foreign investors (para. h.09).



2.29      The Industrial Survey and Promotion Center (ISPC).  The ISPC, an
agency under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, was established in 1970
on the recommendation of TTIDO, to (a) analyze industrial data for planning
purposeF; (b) identify and promote industrial projectq; and (c) evaluate
projects prepared by others, especially those encouraged by Government. In
addition, ISPC has served as technical advisor for the preparation of the
Third Development Plan and special Government sub-committees on specific pro-
ject.s. The Center's effectiveness in carryine, ouit its fumetions has been
hampered by staffing difficulties, which have been resolved only recently.
Its staff now includes six expatriates (a director, three induistrial engineers,
and two economists) and seven Kenyan counterparts (co-director, two engineer/
specialists, three economists, and one trainee). Government is discussing
ISPC's financing and role with TINDP, TJNIDO and IDB; hopefully, this will serve
to bolster ISPC's future promotional role and impact.
Prospects
2.30      Recent economic developments have made it necessary for Kenya to
imdertake a thorough re-assessment of its Development Plan.  Given the more
limited availability of resources, Kenya will need to adapt her strategy to
sustain industrial growth even at 5% per annum and ensure optimum allocation
of her already existing resources.  Steps to correct factor price distortions,
as recommended by the Bank's economic reports, have been started with new taxes
and higher interest rates, coupled with attempts to hold down wage increases,
seeking to increase the cost of capital relative to that of labor. Discussions
with Tanzania and Ufganda to reform the tariff structure remain in the pre-
liminary stages. All these measures seek to restructure the pattern of growth
in both private and public sectors, stimuilating the directly productive
sectors - agriculture and industry. To this end, it is essential to ensure
that projects are selected which have good economic yields as well as satis-
factory financial returns.



III. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
3.01      There are currently fourteen commercial banks in Kenya, with the
largest being owned by the Government. There are also a host of other insti-
tutions as well as a fledgling stock exchange. Commercial banks primarily
provide short-term money for working capital purposes while four development
institutions provide term financing to the industrial sector.
Stock Exchange
3.02      The Nairobi Stock Exchange has five members and approximately 69
companies registered, half of whose securities are traded regularly. Most
issues are ordinary common shares with several preference and debenture
issues also traded.  Until 1967 when exchange controls came to be more rigorously
enforced in Uganda and Tanzania, these countries' securities were also handled
by the exchange; however, only Kenyan securities are now traded. The registered
Kenyan firms are mostly those who have maintained a policy of steady dividend
payments; current dividend yields range from 5 to 15% per annum, with a few highly
speculative issues yielding more.
3.03      The Nairobi Stock Exchange has not been a major source of long-
term industrial financing for new projects in recent times. A recent new
issue was undersubscribed making it the first new issue failure in five
years. Price trends have been on the decline in the last nine months of
1974 with the ordinary shares index dropping from 240 to 174 (Index Base:
January, 1964 = 100). Even share prices of the ICDC Investment Company,
which was established to encourage share ownership by Kenyan-citizens,
dropped from a mid-1973 share price of Ksh 15 to Ksh 10, although it is
still holding well above the original issue price of Ksh 5. In an effort
to mobilize more Kenyan investors, ICDC established a confidential investment
register for investors with more than KF£2,500 who wish to maintain their
anonymity.
Commercial Banks
3.04      Fourteen commercial banks operate in Kenya, with two owned by
the Kenyan Government and the rest by foreign institutions. Kenya Commercial
Bank (60% Government-owned, 40% Grindlays Bank) is the largest with over
20% of total assets and liabilities of the banking system. The next two
largest are the British-owned Barclay and Standird Banks. While commiercial
banks occasionally make medium to longer-term loans and equity investments,
they are primarily engaged in providing short-term finance of less than one
year to manufacturing, agriculture, domestic commerce, and import-export.
The minimum interest rate on deposi;-s has risen to 5.0% per annum which is
approximately 3.0% above the minimum prevailing 18 months ago due to the
current liquidity squeeze precipitated by the fuel crisis and worldwide
inflation. Bank lending rates on term loans range between 10 and 13%.
3.05      Faced with serious balance of payments deficits, the Central Bank
of Kenya has adopted new policies affecting commercial banks which aim at
conserving foreign exchange and encouraging more efficient credit allocation.
First, local lending limits to foreign-controlled firms were tightened with
some relief available for companies primarily operating in the priority
areas of agricultural production, manufacturing, export business, or tourism,



- 10 -
redirecting credit from import trade. Second, a 12 percent guideline on
the increase of bank credit to the private sector was set with the stip-
ulation that credit needs for agriculture, small enterprises, and imported
industrial raw material be met in full.  Third, the previous 9% per annum
interest rate ceiling on foreign borrowing was raised to 11% per annum with
flexibility for higher rates in the cases of approved enterprises operating
in priority areas mentioned above.
Development Finance Institutions
3.06      Three main development finance institutions operate in Kenya in
addition to IDB.  They are the Industrial and Commercial Development Cor-
poration (ICDC), the Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK) and the
East African Development Bank (EADB).  The Kenya Tourist Development
Corporation was also established by Government to promote tourism and to
invest in this sector.
3.07      Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation.  ICDC was
established as a statutory corporation in 1955 to promote and assist
commercial and industrial activities, with emphasis on transferring
businesses owned by non-Kenyans into Kenya hands and providing financial
assistance to them. Its activities have grown rapidly in recent years,
and it now holds assets exceeding K£ 18 million; summary financial state-
ments are at Annex 1.
3.08      About 90% of ICDC's loan portfolio is related to small loan
schemes.  The largest scheme is one concerned with the transfer of non-
Kenyan businesses to Kenyans, financed by five-year loans at 8%. Another
scheme assists Kenyans in property purchases for business purposes. ICDC's
equity portfolio includes thirty-eight companies, with the largest two
holdings in DFCK (see para. 3.11) and IDB. ICDC controls thirteen sub-
sidiaries including IDB, seven of which are wholly-owned (see Annex 2).
3.09      Another important vehicle for the promotion of Kenya indus-
trialization is the Kenyan Industrial Estates Limited (KIE) which is
wholly-owned by ICDC. KIE is charged with developing industrial estates
to promote small and medium-scale enterprises by erecting the required
infrastructure, leasing them to entrepreneurs, and providing finance for
machinery and equipment at 8-8.5% p.a. over 8 years with 1-2 years' grace.
Moreover, KIE is responsible for establishing Rural Industrial Development
Centers (RIDC) which are similar to industrial estates except for their more
modest scale, focus on rural areas, and extension service.  Industrial
estates have been established in Nairobi and Nakuru with plans for five
more between 1975-1977. Four RIDCs are in operation in Nyeri, Embu,
Machakos, and Kakamega with approximately seventeen more planned by 1978.
Financing for KIE has mainly come from bilateral agencies.
3.10      Though ICDC is primarily involved with financing smaller-scale
enterprises, its role in financing large-scale industrial enterprises
through equity and some loans has gradually increased to where 38 percent



- 1l -
of its total portfolio (versus 28 percent in 1973) is comprised of large-
scale projects. ICDC has KaL.4 million tentatively earmarked for it
from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry's development budget to engage
in large-scale industrial investment during the Third Fiv-e-Year Plan Period
(para. 4.09). It is expected, however, that with the current revision of
the Plan and increased activities of TDB in medium to large-scale industrial
financing, ICDC will be increasingly re-emphasizing small-scale enterprises.
3.11      Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK).  DFCK was set up
in 1963 for promoting and financing medium to large-scale industrial projects.
Its share capital is held at 25 percent each by three overseas development
corporations - CDC (U.K.), DEG (vest Germany), FMO (Holland)l/ - and ICDC.
By December 31, 1973, DFCK had total resources of K£4.2 million comprised
of K£ 2.2 million in equity and K£2.0 million in 8% income notes from its
shareholders. Its loans and equity; portfolio amounted to K£3.9 million
with diversified investments in tourism, textiles, agricultural processing
and other sectors. DFCK is currently negotiating with its four shareholders
to obtain new resources and is pursuing an active investment program of
about KU million yearly. Its interest rate on sub-loans ranges from 9 1/2%
to 11% per annum. DFCK anticipates increasing joint appraisal and financing
activities with IDB, with whom it has good relations.
3.12      East African Development Bank (EADB).  Established in 1968 with
headquarters in Kampala, EADB has a share capital of K6.5 million which
is held in equal portions of 31% by the three Governments, with the remainder
distributed among several foreign institutions. EADB's charter favors the
less developed industrial sectors of Uganda and Tanzania over that of Kenya
and consequently limits its operations in Kenya to 22.5% of its total
operations - the rest being equally divided between the other two countries.
By September, 197h, EADB had a net worth of K7.5 million and borrowings
totalling K£2.4 million which includes disbursed portions of a K£2.9 million
loan from the Bank (Loan 843-EA) and a K£1.3 million loan from SIDA. As
of September, 1974 EADB had approved 14 projects in Kenya totalling K£3.1
million out of which 11% was for equity financing. EADB has also made two
lines of credit to ICDC totalling almost K£U.2 million for financing of
small enterprises projects in Kenya.  In its Kenya project pipeline, EADB
currently has 14 possibilities totalling approximately X£5.4 million.  EADB's
interest rate on its loans recently rose to 10% per annum.  It is beginning
discussions with IBRD and SIDA about new lines of credit to finance its
prospective lending program.
1/ Conmmonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), Deutsche Gesellschaft fur
Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (DEG), and Financierings Maatschappij
voor Ontwikkeling n.v. (FMO).



- 12 -
IV. THE COMPANY
Background
4.01      IDB was incorporated under the Companies Act in January, 1973 as
a limited liability company. The full back-round leading to IDB's establish-
ment was detailed in Report 221a-KE (October 31, 1973). The subscribed
share capital of IDB is KL2 million, of which K11,500,000 will have been paid-
in by June 30, 1975, and the balance will be paid in September 1975. The
Government; of Kenya has subscribed directly to 49% of the share capital, and
provides ]-CDC the resources to subscribe to the remaining 51%.
Relationship with ICDC
4.o2      The division of responsibilities between IDB and its parent, ICDC,
are spelled out in a Promotion Agreement (Annex 3) which provides that ICDC
will not finance any industrial project with a capital cost of more than
K150,000 imless IDB has decided not to invest in such project or has decided
to invest jointly with ICDC. ICDC staff continue to supervise its existing
portfolio of investments in large-scale industry, and work together with IDB
on 4oint investments; five of the eleven projects approved by IDB by the end
of 1974 were joint investments with ICDC. These joint investments are likely
to continue as the project pipelines of IDB and ICDC overlap considerably due
to the fact that IDB has limits on the amount of funds it can put in a single
project, now K1400,000 or about $1 million equivalent (para. 4.08 and 4.09),
and joint operations with ICDC permit a larger national participation in signi-
ficant indulstrial projects.  While responding to increasing interest on the part
of Government and external lenders in its small-scale industries programs,
ICDC will also continue to serve as a vehicle for Govemnment purchase of share-
holdings in existing companies. Conversely, IDB is likely to eventually take
ICDC's place as an investor representing Kenyan interests in new companies.
IDB has already established its independent viability and is likely to
strengthen it further (para. 6.16).
Board of Sirectors
4.03      The Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Finance and Planning
and of Commerce and Industry as well as the Executive Director of ICDC are ex-
officio members of IDB's Board; the latter has been elected IDB's Chairman.
The Permanent Secretaries are usually represented by their alternates,
respectively the Chief Economist from Finance and Planning and the Director
of Industry from Commerce and Industry. Three knowledgeable and able business-
men add to the range of experience represented (see Annex 4). The General
Manager has recently been appointed to the Board as Managing Director.  The
Board has been meeting every six to eight weeks and has been very active and
thorough :Ln its review of projects, budgets and staffing.



- 13 -
Management and Staff (Annex 5)
4.04      At the time of the first loan to IDB, an expatriate was serving
as General Manag7er tnder a TJNDP contract for which the Bank was Executing
Agency. This arrangement proved unsatisfactory and the Bank and the Govern-
ment agreed that the then Chief of Operations sholld be appointed General
Manager. In this position, Mr. Joseph Gatuiria, former Deputy Secretary in
the Ministry of Finance, has suieceeded in assembling a competent staff and
haq made a good start in processing projects.  Most importantly, he has
built an initial replutation for IDB as an aggressive, responsive and inde-
pendent project financier.
4.05      Following Mr. Gatuiria's promotion, IDB appointed Mr. John Yaa,
former Tinder Secretary at Treasuiry, as Chief of Operations,; he took up his
duties on June 1, 1974. In his brief time with the bank, he has established
good project processing procedures and succeeded in integrating the work of
the four project officers. Mr. Marinus Piek, on secondment from IBRD, has
been serving aF adviser to the Chief of Operations since October 1973.
Although chiefly involved in operational project preparation and appraisal
duiring his first nine months, he has been increasingly concerned with inten-
sive training of the project staff and assisting in the development of
appraisal and supervision procedures.  TUpon expiration of this contract in
October 1975, it is anticipated that TINDP will renew its support for the
position for a further two years and IDB has requested Bank assistance in
recruiting a replacement.  It is expected that further training assistance may
not be required at the end of this time.
4.06      After discussions with the Bank on the need for a second adviser,
IDB obtained an ODA (TT.K.) grant and appointed Mr. M.A. Boyd, former General
Manager of the Tanganyika Development Finance Co., as manaaement adviser.
Having started in July 1974, Mr. Boyd is expected to remain at IDB about one
year. Following his departure, IDB expects ODA-financing of a new investment
officer position to oversee the implementation and monitoring of approved projects.
4.07      Total Kenvan staff numbers 29 of whom 9 are professionals.  During
1974, a senior projects officer and three projects officers were recruited,
the former with several years of development banking and commercial experience
and the latter with backgrounds in Government or finance; all fouir seem com-
petent and able.  In addition to in-house training by the advisers, three of
the projects staff have participated in programs in Germany, Japan and at EDI.
A chief accountant and accountant were engaged during 1974 and recruitment
of an engineer is underway. Plans to recruit and train a lawyer are under
Hisculssion with IDB's attorneys.
Operating Policies and On-lending Terms
4.08      IDB's operations are guided by its Policy Statement (Annex 6) which
wa.s drafted in consultation with the Bank. It conforms in all significant
respects to policy statements adopted by other development finance companies.



- 14 -
IDB finances industrial enterprises including mining, agro-industries and
engineering enterprises, but is excluded from financing purely commercial,
real estate and farming activities. IDB limits its total financial assis-
tance to a single enterprise to 20% of IDB's subscribed share capital and
reserves, which permits IDB to make a maximum investment of KE400,000 in a
single venture. Equity investments in an enterprise do not exceed 10% of
IDB's subscribed share capital and reserves, equivalent to a maximum of
KE200,000. IDB's total equity portfolio may not exceed its subscribed
capital and reserves.  IDB does not normally finance more than 50% of a
project's total cost including permanent working capital, and will not
acquire an interest of more than 49% in the share capital of any one enter-
prise. IDB's minimum investment is KT20,000 in projects with a minimum
capital cost of KL50,000.
4.09      In practice, the Policy Statement has proved a useful guide for
IDB's initial operations. The most binding constraint has been the limit on
commitments to a single firm; indeed IDB has closely approached or hit the
limit on 5 of 11 projects approved to date. IDB's management, Government and
saoe clients feel KL400,000 neither permits IDB to finance a substantial
enough part of large projects nor, consequently, to have a sufficiently strong
role in project formulation. Two proposals are under discussion between IDB
and Governrent to remedy this problem, an increase in IDB's share capital
(para. 6.16) and the possibility of IDB serving as agent for equity invest-
ments.for Government's account.  The current Development Plan projects scme
KE2 million per year of such direct Government (viz., Ministry of Finance and
Planning) share investments in industrial projects; Government has reaffirmed
this plan. These funds are in addition to some K360.3 million annually planned
for IODC investments; ICDC's allocation is extremely variable as, in the year
ending June 30, 1974, only KLO.2 million was projected for ICDC's equity in-
vestments, but it actually received KL1.5 million. In the past various
Ministries and parastatal corporations have served as channels for these funds,
usually the Ministry of Finance and Planning itself for industrial projects.
Were IDB to serve as agent for a part of those investments, its intervention
in the design of large industrial projects could be both earlier and more sub-
stantial, hopefully increasing the economic contribution of the projects. As
IDB expects to invest both equity and debt for its own account in the type of
projects envisioned, there would be little additional work for the staff.
During negotiations, it was agreed that IDB would amend its Policy Statement
to enable it to undertake investments on Government's account and risk subject
to the conditions that: (i) such undertakings will be limited to a scale bearing
reasonable relationship to IDB's own operations and staffing constraints (but
limiting its maximum undertakings to one-third of the total number of projects
which it has financed solely for its own account in a given year); (ii) IDB
will receive an appropriate fee; (iii) IDB will ensure that such investments
would be consistent with its own investment criteria.
4.10      Most loans approved to date have carried an interest rate of 9½O
to 10%. Given the current liquidity squeeze in Kenya as well as the need to
maintain a spread over increasingly costly resources, IDB has raised its lending



- 15 -
on most loans to 1c½-ll% with a somewhat lower rate (9-93S%) on subloans
to wood-processing industries under a special Finnish line of credit (para.
6.10). IDB charges a 1% commitment fee on undrawn balances and is con-
sidering the introduction of a is project examination fee, payable at the
time of application.  Most of IDB's loans carry a foreign exchange risk
(see following paragraph) and thus its charges are in line with rates
charged by DFCK (9½i-11%) and the commercial banks (10-13%).
4.11      At the time of the first Bank loan to IDB, DFCK's resources per-
mitted it to lend in local currency, while EaDB relent its foreign borrowings
in foreign currency and its borrowers had to bear the foreign exchange risk.
To allow IDB to be competitive, the Bank agreed that in cases where lDB was
not able to pass the entire exchange risk to its clients, the foreian exchange
risk on the Bank's loan to IDB could be shared between Government and IDB's
Borrowers.  This was accomplished by IDB having its borrowers assume the risk
of exchange fluctuations between the Kenya shilling and the TS dollar (a
currency to which the shilling has been tied and with which IDB's borrowers
would be familiar), and having Government accept the risk on any fluctuation
between IJS dollars and the currencies in which the Bank loan was disbursed.
DAe to Kenya's stringent external reserves position, Government has accepted
this risk-splitting arrangement for only one subloan; for the others, IDB has
passed the full foreign exchange risk on to its borrowers. As all lendable
funds and, in particular, local currency fumds are scarce at present, IDB ex-
pects to have few problems in maintaining this policy by passing the risk to
subborrowers in all cases.
4.12      Subloan terms have ranged from 6 to 14 years, including 1 to 2 of
grace, based on subproject cash flow projections. IDB's security requirements
are normally limited to a first mortgage on the borrowers assets, pari passu
with other lenders when appropriate. It justifiably seeks personal guarangees
from promoters in special circumstances.
Procedures
4.13      In its first year of full operations, IDB has, understandably,
actively promoted only perhaps two or three projects. Rather, as anticipated
at the time of the first Bank loan, it has largely helped finance ICDC pro-
jects which had crystallized prior to IDB's start (para. 4.02). Nevertheless,
IDB has made a surprising number of significant contributions to several pro-
jects (see remarks in Annex 7). In cooperation with the New Projects Committee
and the Industrial Survey and Promotion Center (para. 2.29), IDB has taken on
the job of moving a number of projects from the idea stage to the appraisable
stage. With its staff now in place and with the improvements at the New Pro-
jects Committee and ISPC, IDB should become more effective in this role of
speeding actualization of project ideas.



- 16 -
4.14      IDB's appraisal work to date has been satisfactory.  The staff
recruited brought relevant experience and, with the management, trainingt
and advisory support provided, have adequately appraised the subprojects
presented.  The recent introduction of an "issues paper" procedure early in
the evaluiation process, coupled with a new operations manual. should enhance
both the quality and speed of appraisals. Although it is far too early to
evaluate the success of its subprojects, IDB has made useful contributions
to financial, economic and technical aspects of subproject design. The lack
of a staff engineer has forced it to completely rely on outside technical
expertise; this should be alleviated shortly by recruitment of an engineer
and, possibly, bilaterally funded assistance.
4.15      The weakest stage of IDB's operations has been moving projects to
formal commitment once IDB's Board has approved an investment.  This lag
has been due to the time which was required to recruit sufficient staff for
the workload and to the difficullty of introducing changes suagested by IDB
at its necessarily late entry to the project formulation process. Moreover,
IDB's management has been eager to build a track record and there was a
tendency to present projects to IDB's Board at too early a stage. Delays in
lecal. processing have also hampered implementation of approved projects.  The
recent completion of a standard loan agreement, drafted with Bank assistance,
coupled with the streamlined appraisal procedures noted above and stronger
management attention to this lag should reduce the delays. Most importantly,
however, IDB now has a full staff complement and should be itvolved in projects
from their inception, eliminating- the two major causes of past delays.
4. 16     None of the projects financed by IDB have yet started full operations;
hence, the amount of supervision required has been limited.  After discussions
with the Bank, management seems to be taking satisfactory steps to prepare
supervision policies and procedures.
4.17      Review of subborrower's procurement plans has been adequate.  IDB's
staff, management and board have acutely queried such plans, making  usefull
suggestions and sometimes imposing requirements regarding evaluation, sources
and performance guarantees on subloans. As IDB becomes involved in projects
earlier in their formulation, it will be better able to ensu.re proper procure-
ment procedures.
4.18      As of December 31, 1974, IDB has disbursed against only one loan
for which disbursement proceduires were satisfactory.  The chief accountant,
with assistance from the management adviser, is creating adequate general dis-
bursement systems and procedures.
Auditors and Lawyers
4.19      IDB has established satisfactory working relationships with its
auditors (Pannell Fitzpatrick Bellhouse Mwangi & Co.) and its attorneys (Kaplan
& Stratton).  The auditor's opinion on the accounts for 1973 was lnqualified
and they have raised no question since that time. Both firms have also pro-
vided informal training support to IDB.



- 17 -
V. OPERATIONS AND FINANCE
5.0L      Operations.  As of December 31, 1974, IDB had approved 11 loans
totalling K£2.3 million and 8 equity investments for K£O.8 million in 11
projects; details are at Annex 7. One project had started pilot operations
and four were under construction, while five were still in formation and
one was likely to be completely restructured: this last project is the
only likely drop-out.  TDB has worked closely with a number of development
finance institutions, including ICDC, DFCK and EADB, with which it maintains
good working relations.
5.02      In line with Government's policy of industrial decentralization,
only four projects were located in Nairobi or Mombasa, the rest being in
smaller cities and rural areas. The projects were about evenly divided in
number between export-oriented and import-substitution, with two, in part,
serving new local demand. Over one-third by number and amount were agro-
processing projects, two of them involving substantial smallholder coopera-
tive participation. Two projects, accounting for one-quarter of the funds
invested, were for textiles, with the balance in metal fabrication, mining,
transport and tourism. Economic rates ol return on all these projects are
estimated to exceed 12% with several over 20%. All were Kenyan-controlled
companies with both local and expatriate management either in place or
envisioned; about one-half of the projects had substantial public sector
participation in addition to IDB.
5.03      Portfolio.  Due to the lags in conmitments and disbursements
(para. 4.1 5, IDB-had only one loan of K4OO,OOO and three equity invest-
ments totalling KZ198,000 in its portfolio as of December 31, 1974.
5.04      Profitability.  IDB's primary source of revenue has been interest
on term deposits o.t' its paid-in share capital, which was somewhat higher
than originally projected due to slower disbursement and higher interest
rates available. The slow disbursements also resulted in low interest
charges and delays in the recruitment of staff offset rising staff costs.
Consequently, the operating loss for the year ending December 31, 1974 was,
as projected, KU10,000. IDB has adopted a conservative provisions policy,
taking 2 1/2% of annual disbursements. Thus, provisions of K£15,000 brought
the net operating loss to K£25,000.
5.05      Financial Position. Over two-thirds of IDBts assets at December 31,
1974 consisted of cash and short-term deposits. Slow disbursements on sub-
loans and consequent slow drawdown on loans kept IDB's debt/equity ratio
below 0.3:1.



VI. PROSPECTS
Bisiness Outlook
6.01      Kenya's past economic success has given it an excellent reputation
as fertile grolud for industrial investment.  Recent adverse developments
notwithstanding, past performance and expectations of future political
stability should support this reputation.
6.02      The impact of recent worldwide economic developments on Kenya is
not yet clear but some of the first reactions have already been ouitlined in
Government's revisions to the Development Plan (para. 2.14). With emphasis
on increased utilization of existing capacity, overall industrial investment
is likely to be below original targets.  However, continued stringency of both
external and domestic resources is likely to concentrate investment demand on
institutions with available funds.
6.03      In view of the above, industrial investment in Kenya from 1975
throuigh 1977 is projected to be between KE35 million and K150 million per year
or on the order of K1l25 million over the three years. As detailed below
(para. 6.08), IDB is expected to finance some KU3.5 million annually or about
8% on average of the total.
IDB's Strategy: Promotion. Economic Evaluation and Resource Mobilization.
6.04      In its short period of operations, IDB has succeeded in recruiting
and training a competent staff, established a reputation for independent,
critical appraisals, and contributed to the projects it has helped finance.
The major external constraint on IDB's activity has been a shortage of projects
formulated to the stage where IDB's intervention can be fruitfuil; scarcity
ofi' qualified entrepreneurs has been a secondary though clearly related con-
straint. Internally, IDB has been limited primarily by its slow build-up of
staff and, secondarily, by its maximum exposure limitation.
6.05      IDB should, therefore, serve an important promotional role.  Ideas
for possible projects are continually generated from Government and private
business, both foreign and domestic. It is hoped that, following review of
its program, ISPC (para. 2.29) will become a more useful agency for assisting
both Government and business in the feasibility stuidy stage of project pre-
paration. Hence, IDB's distinctive role will lie in its capability for taking
a feasible project'and helping a promoter to elaborate it to the point where
it becomes a project wJhich can be financed.
6.06      As the next stage in this proreess, IDB can serve Kenyan development
by its independent financial, technical and, perhaps above all, economic
evaluation of projects.  While it has made a good start on financial and eco-
nomic work, it needs to develop a technical competence and refine its economic



- 19 -
analyses; both are receiving increasing management attentior.  IDB has and
will continue to give particular attention in its project work to issues of
the economics of Kenyan industry which concern both Government and the
Bank, such as the priority of agricultural processing (e.g., Panafrican
Vegetable, Kenya Cashewnuts), labor intensive technologies (e.g., Kenya
Cashewnuts), and decentralization from major urban centers (e.g., boiler
project at Kisumu).
6.07      In light of the resource shortage in Kenya, IDB can become a useful
mobilizer and channel for external resources. Initial contacts have already
proven fruitful (para. 6.13). Moreover, this same strength should help it
to act as a lead institution for the commercial and development banks in
Kenya, fostering mobilization of domestic resources. The projected increase
in its equity base (para. 6.16) and the possibility of serving as investor
for Government's account (para. 4.09) should further enhance its ability to
contribute to project designs.
Forecast Operations
6.08      Annex 8 presents a list of project possibilities under consideration
by IDB; while it is unlikely that all of these projects will be replized, it
is probable'that others would replace those that are not. The sectoral emphases
remain agricultural processing, including food and industrial raw materials
as well as forestry products; textiles also remain a probably important sector.
6.09      Operational projections for IDB and the assumptions behind them are
presented at Annexes 9 and 10. It is anticipated that IDB will increase its
normal operations by 10% in 1975 and again in 1976; this is a conservative
assumption based on the fact that full staffing was only recently completed.
The total volume of operations from 1975 to 1979 is expected to average over
K13.5 million per year.
6.10      In addition to its normal operations, IDB expects to serve as the
channel for a line of credit extended to Kenya by Finland for purchases of
Finnish equipment. It is expected this would be primarily logging, sawmilling
and wood-working machinery, although other equipment would not be excluded.
It is planned to coordinate these subloans with the Bank-supported forestry
project in Kenya. These subloans are expected to nimber some 40 and to total
KM1 million. To handle the increased workload, IDB hopes to receive Finnish
technical assistance and to recruit an additional project officer in mid-1975,
either to work exclusively on these subloans or to spread the workload across
the entire projects staff withouit overburdenin7 them.  This program should be
a productive adjunct to IDB's regular operations.
6.11      Through 1977, IDB expects almost all of its loans to finance imports,
with local expenditures being financed from promoters' eqouity and the local
banks; hence, there is little near-term need for IDB to acquire local currency
resources.  As it develops its project processing capabilities, IDB hopes to



- 20 -
move increasing,ly into more intensive support nor African entrepreneurs to
imdertake medium-sized projects, defined as those whose total project cost
is between KE50,000 and KL150,000.  IDB expects to aid in project formulation,
promotion, and eventlual operating management. As this will clearly require
much more intensive staff work, IDB's management is at the preliminary stages
of investigating bilateral assistance to enable it to lend in either Kenya
shillings or US dollars and to defray the additional staff cost. This program
would also likely entail some small local expenditure financing.  As details
and consequences of such a program are at a very preliminary stage, the pro-
posed Bank loan is based on estimates not including such a program.
Resource Requirements
6.12      Through the end of 1977, IDB is expected to commit about TJS $24.9
million equLivalent in foreign cLrrency loans and TJS $7.3 million equiivalent
in equity investments.  In addition, IDB is expected to lend about TTS $0.7
million equivalent in local currency. Both the eauity investments and local
cLrrency loans would be funded from IDB's share capital. Current subscribed
capital is firmly anticipated to be increased by continuing subscriptions of
K6500,000 annuallv in 1976 and 1977 by Goverment.
6.13      The foreign exchange resources would come from several sources.
In December, 1974, IDB signed a loan agreement with DEG (Gemany) for  M 4
million at 8% for 12 years including 5 of grace; the funds are available for
any foreign procurement and, in special cases, some local procurement. In
addition, IDB has secured a line of credit from- the Export Credit Guar-
antee Department (ECaD) (United Kingdom) of Li million for procure-
ment of British equipment; as the maximiin subloan term is 5 years, IDB may
have some difficulty utilizing the entire amount. Although onlending terms
from Government are not yet set, IDB expects to have available the Finnish line
of credit described above (para. 6.10) amounting to FM 10 million. Finally,
preliminary discussions with the African Development Bank indicate a strong
possibility of a loan to IDB of 2 million UJnits of Account (US $2.4 million
equivalent) in 1975-1976. Consequently, IDB's resource position should be as
follows:
TJS $ million
eQuivalent
Foreigyn-currency loan commitments
through 1977                           2h.9
Financed by:
IBRD Loan 946-KE                       5.0
DEG                                    1.6
Finland                                 2.7
ECGD (at 75% utilization)              1.7
African Development Bank               2 .4
Proposed second IBRD loan             10.0
Residual resource -ap                     1.5



- 21 -
IRLD would therefore finance 60% of 1DB' I cumilative requirements or 50% of
com.itments beyond the fir.st Bank Loan.
Forecast Financial Results
6.14      Lending at 10-11% per annum and paying an average of 8% per annum
on debt, IDB is not expected to show a net profit until 1977 when it returns
I.1% on its average equity, which improves to 6.9% by 1979 (Annex 13).  This
is primarily because of (i) pha.sed pay-in of share subscriptions by Govern-
ment and ICOC, thereby limiting short-term interest-bearinog investments;
(ii) high administrative costs as a proportion oL total assets in the initial
years for staffings up (especially in 1974-75 when four new staff are expected
to be hired); (iii) relatively conservative provision policy; (iv) low pro-
jected dividend receipts (i.e., IDB expects its eqnity investment to yield
beginning only in year 3 with 2%, 5% in year L and 6% in year 5); and
(v) -rowth rate of only about 10% per annur. in overall operations.  No Lee
income is projected from managed funds as the additional cost of this task
should be nominal; this would, however, be subject to negotiations.  In view
of its low profitability duiring the be,ginning years and need to rapidly build
lip its reserves, IDE expects to request tax exempt status from the Government
along the lines of ICDC.
6.15      Including new equity from Government of KE500,000 in 1976 and the
same in 1977, IDB will remain under its three-to-one debt to equity ceiling
mntil the end of 1978. Annex 11 shows IDB's debt coverage to be adequlate,
although thin at 1.1 to 1.2.
Increase in Share Capital
6.16      IDB's Board has authorized an increase in the bankts share capital from
K12 million to KMh million with a view towards increasing the maximum potential
commitment to an individual client, thereby enhancing IDB's impact on a pro-
ject.  TTnder the terms of IDB's Promotion Agreement, the currently subscribed
KT2 million would be fully paid-in by ICDC and Government by 1976.  Govern-
ment has reaffirmed its comriitment in the Development Plan (1974-1978) to
continue subscriptions of KL500,000 annually through 1978.  However, the decision
has not yet been taken as to whether this wouild be, a. in the past, 51%
channeled through IGDC or, as proposed by IDB, solely .subscribed by Govern-
ment.  IDB's management has proposed an eventual shareholding distribution as
follow#:
Present             Proposed
K1 million    %    KE million       %
Government
0.98      49       1.98         49
ICDC                             1.02      51       1.02         26
Two local financial
institutions                       -       -       1.00         25
2.00     100       4.00        o00



-22-
It is proposed that these subscriptions be paid from 1976 through 1978.
The addition of two local financial institutions, expected to be an
insurance company and a commercial bank, would strengthen IDBts equity
base, increase its independence from both ICDC and Government, and enhance
its ability to develop with the new shareholders a comiplete financial plan
for its clients. The local institutions have expressed sapport for IDB's
proposal.  It is, however, still under discussion within Government and with
ICDC. Agreement is expected by September 30, 1975.



-23-
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND REOMMENDATIONS
7.01     IDB has made a good start in supporting large and medium-scale
industry in Kenya. Having assembled a competent staff, usefully contributed
to subproject designs and utilized the first Bank loan well, it is suitable
for further financial assistance and institutional support from the Bank.
7.02     Bank Loan.  IDB is a creditworthy borrower for a Bank loan of
US$10.0 million equivalent. It is recommended that the proposed loan be
made on substantially the same terms as the first, with two changes. First,
in recognition of the quality of IDBts appraisals, it is recommended that
the individual project free limit be raised from US$200,000 equivalent to
US$400,000 equivalent; the aggregate free limit would be US$2.0 million,
or 20% of the total loan. Second, it is proposed that IDB pay the normal
commitment charge on the Bark loan. Under the first loan, IDB was granted
concessional treatment, not paying commitment charges until authorization
to withdraw funds was given on individual subprojects, as it had not yet
started operations. The maximum debt/equity ratio would remain at 3:1
which should suffice through the end of 1978.  The loan would carry the
standard Bank interest rate and the amortization schedule would conform
substantially to the aggregate of subloan repayments to IDB, with a maximum
maturity of 15 years.  As is normal for development finance companies, IDB
would be expected to pass the full foreign exchange risk to its borrowers.
7.03     Disbursement. Disbursement would continue at 100% of the c.i.f.
cost of direct imports, 65% of the invoice price of goods previously imported
into Kenrya and 40% of the cost of civil works. These percentages are based
on a study carried out by IDB for the first Bank loan. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Bank would finance the foreign exchange component
of locally manufactured goods made in part from materials previously imported and
that the appropriate percentage would be substantiated by IDB on a case-by-case basis.
7.o4     Also during negotiations, understanding was reached on:
(a) the modalities of IDB serving as an investor for
Government's account (para. 4.09);
(b) the future increase of IDB's share capital and the time
by which it would be fully subscribed (para. 6.16); and
(c) the Bank's willingness to continue serving as Executing
Agent for the UNDP-financial technical assistance post.






Arimex 1
K9I\YA
Industrial and Commercialevelopment Cororation
Fi-nancial Statements (1972,-74
(Ka ooo)
IT  Balance Sheets (Year ending June 30)
Assets                              1971/72       1972/73      1973/74
Current Assets                       94           137          150
Subsidiary CompManies               631         1,386       1,785
other Equity Investments          1,926         2,393       3,724
Loans to Subsidiary Companies   1,008           1,239        1,4361/
Other Medium and Large Loans        469           681          821
Snall Loans                       4.,843        6,588        9,017
Fixed Assets                        903         1,197        1,314
Total Assets              9,           162          18 247
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities                 160           391          701
Long-ter-m Loans                  5,208         6,526        8,125
Grants and Capital Reserve        4.,506        6,704        9,421
Total Liabilities
and Equity             92874         13,621       18,247
II. Income Statements
Revenues
Dividend Income                     231           645          626
Interest on loans                   221           5b0          783
Other Income                         26           117          200
Total Revenues              478         1,302        1,609
Expenses
Administrative Expenses             119           24L          326
Financlal Expenses                  108           320          424
Depreciation                         45             8           23
Provisions                           34            66           98
Total 3Thcenses                   ~ 7zTT 38            C-
Net Profit                   172          664          738
1/Includes KS97,000 held in current accounts of subsidiary companies.
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 2
KENYA
Industrial and Conmei= TT Development Corporation
Equity Investments and Medium- to Large-sized Loans
As of June 30, 1974
(KS '000)
Equity Investment         Loan         Total
A. Subsidiaries1'
1. Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd.                10.0                  -           10.0
2. Kenya Film Corporation, Ltd.                              2.0                 -            2.0
3. Kenya Industrial Estates, Ltd.                            0.1                 943.0      943.1
4. Kenya National Properties, Ltd.                         lf00.0                 80.0      180.0
5. African Diatomite Industries, Ltd.                        0.1                  44.4       44.5
6. Pulp and Paper Company of E.A., Ltd.                      0.1                   9.1        9.2
7. Kenya Wine Agencies, Ltd.                              229.5                  -          229.5
8. Fluorspar Company of Kenya, Ltd.                        255.0                 -          255.0
9. Kenatco Transport Co., Ltd.                            333.0                  -          333.0
10. Kenya Mining Co., Ltd.                                  255.0                  15.0      270.0
11. ICDC Investment Co., Ltd.                                24.1                 200.0      284.1
12. Wananchi Sawmill, Ltd.                                    6.6                  47.5       54.1
13. Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.                      510.0                  -          510.0
Sub-total                                  1,785.6               1,338.9   3,124.5
B. Other Companies
1. Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd.             500.0                       2/ 1,025.0
2. Kenya Engineering Industries, Ltd.                     175.0                  -          175.0
3. Metal Box Company of East Africa, Ltd.                 231.8                  -          231.8
4. NAS Airport Services, Ltd.                             155.8                  -          155.8
5. East Africa Industries, Ltd.                           151.7                  -          151.7
6. J. H. Minet and Co. (E.A.), Ltd.                        52.9                  -           52.9
7. Union Carbide Kenya, Ltd.                              244.4                  -          244.4
8. Block Hotels, Ltd.                                      30.6                  -           30.6
9. Eslon Plastics of Kenya, Ltd.                           25.3                   16.0      41.3
10. Firestone East Africa (1969), Ltd.                     421.8                  -         421.8
11. Ceramic Industties of E.A., Ltd.                        30.0                  -          30.0
12. The Raymond Woollen Mills (Kenya), Ltd.                 15.0                   59.9       74.9
13. E. A. Clothing Factory (1969), Ltd.                      8.8                  -            8.8
14. Lake Baringo Fisheries, Ltd.                              7.0                   7.0       14.0
15. African Radio Manufacturing Co., Ltd.                    6.8                  -            6.8
16. Kenya Industrial Plastics, Ltd.                           5.0                   6.5       11.5
17. E.S.A., Ltd.                                             12.3                 -           12.3
18. Kearlines, Ltd.                                           9.9                 -            9.9
19. J. W. Kearsley (Kenya), Ltd.                              2.0                   4.1        6.1
20. Mea Garments, Ltd.                                        2.3                  10.6       12.9
21. Kenya Toray Mills, Ltd.                                 149.0                 -          149.0
22. Panafrica Paper Mills (E.A.), Ltd.                      179.0                 -          179.0
23. Polysynthetics Eastern Africa, Ltd.                      32.2                 -           32.2
24. Kenya Fishnet Industries, Ltd.                          43.0                  _          43.0
25. Kenya Fishing Industries, Ltd.                          20.0                  -           20.0
26. Nakurn Chrome Tanning Co., Ltd.                          10.0                 -           10.0
27. E. A. Fine Spinners, Ltd.                              175.0                  129.1     304.1
28. Brollo Kenya, Ltd.                                     333.3                  -         333.3
29. Kenya Peanuts Co., Ltd.                                 31.3                  -           31.3
30. Seracoatings, Ltd.                                       30.0                  62.8       92.8
31. Associated Battery Manufacturers (E.A.), Ltd.           42.8                  -           42.8
32. Soroko Fibreboards, Ltd.                               160.7                  -          160.7
33. Kenya Cashews, Ltd.                                     220.0                 -          220.0
34. Kenya Bowling Centres, Ltd.                              10.0                 -           10.0
35. C.P.C. Industrial Products, Ltd.                        139.2                 -          139.2
36. Somerset Africa, Ltd.                                    12.8                 -           12.8
37. Pan African Vegetable Products, Ltd.                    47.2                  -           47.2
Sub-total                               3,723.9                  821     4,544.9
Total                                   5,509.5                2,159.9   7,669.4
1/First seven are wholly-owned.
'2/Income notes.
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 3
Page 1
KENYA
Promotion Agreement Between the
Government and ICDC
THIS AGREEXENT is made the 18th day.of December of one thousand nine hundred
and seventy-two BE1WEEN the GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBIIC OF KENYA (hereinafter
called "the Government??) of the one part and INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, a body corporate established in the said Republic
by the Industrial Development Act (Chapter 517) having its principal office
at Marshall House, Harambee Avenue, in the said Republic (hereinafter called
"I.C.D.C.") of the other part.
W H E R E A S : -
(1)    I.C.D.C. was established for the purpose of facilitating the industrial
and economic development of the said Republic and is authorized -under Section
8 of the said Act, subject to the approval of the Minister for the time being
responsible for Commerce and Industry, inter alia to promote and aid in
promoting, constitute, form or organize companies, syndicates or partnerships
of all kinds and to exercise and enforce all rights and powers conferred by
or incident to its ownership of any shares, stocks, obligations or securities
for the time being held or owned by I.CD.C.
(2)    The Government is desirous of further facilitating the industrial
development of the said Republic and it and I.C.D.C. have agreed jointly to
establish and operate in the said Republic a development Bank in the manner
and on and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter appearing.
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows: -
1.    As soon as may be practicable after the date of this Agreement, I.C.D.C.,
on behalf of the Government and itself shall procure the incorporation in tuhe
said Republic of a company to be known as "Industrial Development Bank Limited"
and the Government shall procure that the consent of the Minister for the time
being responsible for Finance shall be given, under Section 3 (1) (b) of the
Banking Act, 1968, to the use of the word "Bank" in the name of the said com-
pany, (hereinafter referred to as "the Company") notwithstanding the fact
that it.is not envisaged that the Company shall at the outset be a licensed
bank under the said Banking Act.
2.     The authorized capital of the Campany shall be Shillings Forty million
(Shs. 40,000,000Q) divided into Two million (2,000,000) shares of Shillings
Twenty (Shs. 20/=). each and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Company shall be substantially in the form of the draft contained in the
First Schedule annexed hereto.
3.     The Government shall procure that the Minister for Finance and Planning,
in exercise of the power conferred on him by Section 106 (1) of the Stamp Duty
Act (Chapter 48) shall grant exemption from the capital duty on the authorized
capital of the Company which would otherwise be payable under Heading 8 in the
Schedule to the Stamp Duty Act (Chapter 480).



Annex 3
Page 2
4.     ]:.C.D.C. shall meet in the first instarce all the costs of and
incidental to the incorporation of the Company and shall be credited with
the amount thereof in the books of account of the Company as part of the
first instalment of the sum to be subscribed for shares in the capital of
the Company by I.C.D.C. as hereinafter provided.
5.     The parties hereto shall procure that, so long as they remain the
only holders of shares in the capital of the Company, the Board of Directors
thereof shall consists of the following: -
The Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
The Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
The Executive Director of I.C.D.C.,
The Managing Director of the Company, and
Three persons, not being officers of the Government, appointed by
the parties hereto as Members of the Company or, from time to
time, by the other Directors, to fill casual vacancies, such
appointments to be of persons who havelad extensive experience
and shown capacity in industry in the said Republic or elsewhere.
6.     Unless and until otherwise agreed by the parties hereto, they shall
be the only Members of the Company and shall hold the issued capital thereof
for the time being as to Fifty-one per cent (51%) by I.C.D.D. and as to
Forty-nine per cent (49%) by the Government.  The total authorized capital
of the Company shall be fully subscribed not later than the fourth anniver-
sary of the date of incorporation of the Company and, unless the parties
hereto, having regard to the capital requirements of the Company, shall
agree to accelerate subscription, I.C.D.C. shall subscribe the sum of
Shillings Five million one hundred thousand (Shs. 5,100,000/-) and the
Government shall subscribe the sum of Shillings Four million nine hundred
thousand (Shs. 4,900,000/-) for shares in the capital of the Company in
each of the first., second, third and fourth years following the date of
incorporation of the Company, on such dates in those years as they may
mutually agree. The parties hereto shall procure that, on subscription
in full of such amounts, totalling Shillings Ten million (Shs. 10,000,000/-)
in each of the said years the Company shall forthwith allot and issue to
I.C.D.C. Two hundred and fifty-five thousand (255,000) and to the Government
Two hundred and forty-five thousand (2451,000) fully paid shares of Shillings
Twenty (Shs. 20/=) in the capital of the Company. All the shares in the
capital of the Company shall be Ordinary shares ranking pari passu with each
other in all respects.
7.     The Government will procure that I.C.D.C. shall-be provided with such
funds as may be necessary to enable it to subscribe for shares in the capital
of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Clause 6 hereof.
8.     The parties hereto shall procure that the Board of Directors of the
Company shall adopt, and that the Company shall operate initially in accord-
ance with the Statement of Policy and Regulations, a copy of which is
contained in the Second Schedule annexed hereto, provided that the same
may be modified by the said Board from time to time.



Annex 3
Page 3
9.    Fromand after the date on which the Ccmpany shall have commenced
operatiams, I.C.D.C. .ill not approve any investment or loan for any indus-
trial project, except for those projects falling within its Industrial
Estates and small scale Industrial Loans Programmes, with an estimated
capital cost of more than Shillings One million (Shs. 1,000,000/=) unless
and until the Company shall have decided not to invest in such project or
the parties hereto have agreed to invest jointly therein.
10.    Each of the parties hereto shall use its best endeavours to procure
the successful operation of the Company as an effective instrument for the
prGmotion and development of industry in the said Republic.
IN WITNESS WHERDF
duly authorized in that behalf under the Government Contracts Act (Chapter 25)
has hereunto set his hand and I;C.D.C. has caused its Common Seal to be here-
unto affixed the day anu year first above written.
DFCD
May 15, 1973



Annex 4
KEYYA
INDTSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Board of Directors
(As of December 31, 1974)
Chairman: Mr. E.M. Wamae                       Executive Director, ICDC
Mr. N. Nganga                      Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Alternate: Mr. Y.F.O. Masakhalia Chief Economist,
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Mr. L. M. Kabetu                   Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Alternate:  Mr. A. N. Ndiho        Director of Industry,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Mr. B. M. Gecaga                   Director, British-American Tobacco
and President of the Council,
University of Nairobi
Mr. R. Kemoli                      Officer, Commonwealth Development
Corporation
Mr. K. Mwendwa                     Director, Mackenzie (Kenya) Ltd.
From March 7,
1975:          Mr. J. Gatuiiria                    Managing Director, IDB
AFCD
April 9,1975



Annex 5
KETYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVEIWPMENT BANK
Organization Chart
BOARD
Anaging Director
(J. Gatuiria)
Chief of Operations
(J. W. Yaa)                                      A
IrAdviser
(M.A. Boyd)
Adviser                                 ..____      
(14C. Piek)                                                    -                    1
Chief Accountant             Lawyer
(J. Muguiyi)              (vacant)
I _~
Engineer     Senior Project Officer
(vacant)            (C.N. Kamau)
Accountant
(D.K. Ngaanga)
Project Officers:
(D.G. Hbatia)
(M.P. Kunguru)
(H. Njoroge)
EFCD
January 28, 1975



Alnns£x 6
KEINYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVEL ORI'1 BANK L==TED
STATEMNT OF POLICY
1.     The Industrial Development Bank Limited is a financial institution
created by the Goverment of Kenya and the Industrial and Commercial Devel-
opment Corporation for the purpose of furthering the economic development
of Kenya by assisting in the promotion, establishment, expar.sion and modern-
ization of mediu..m and large scale industrial enterprises, including mining,
agro-industries, engineering and such other enterprises as the Board may
approve. In pursuance of this objective it shall be the purpose of the
Bank to achieve and maintain a satisfactory and acceptable return on the
shareholders? capital compatible with the maintenance of a sound financial
position.  Tne IDB will not assist enterprises in the purely cosmercial,
real estate and purely farming activities.
2.     The IDB will promote the.industrial development of Kenya through one,
or a combination of the several of the following methods:
(a) Provision of medium and long-term loan finance.
(b) Direct equity investments.
(c) Provision of guarantees for loans from other sources.
(d)  Underwriting security issues, shares stocks and
similar obligations.
3.     The IDB will normally finance or otherwise assist enterprises only
where new productive assets axe to be created and will normally not engage
in re-financing operations.
4.     Dhe IMB  operations shall be guided by sournd banking principles.
The Bank's investments decisions shall be based on sound appraisal methods,
and will particularay take into account the total financial requirements
of the project and the soundness of the resulting financial structure for
the enterprise.
5.     The Bank shall finance only economically sound, financially viable,
technically feasible projects, and those which have or will have competent
Management.
6.     The Bank shall not invest in any project in which the total capita:
cost including permanent working capital is less than KZ50,000 and will n.
invest an amount of less than K£20,000 in any project.
7.     The Bank shall not finance or otherwise commit itself in any ente-
prise to the extent of more than 50% of the project's total capital cos-
including permanent working capital.
8.     The Bank will not seek to acquire a controlling interest in its
equity investments, and shall not acquire an interest of more than 49'
the share capital of any one enterprise. The IDS wilL not in normal



Arnex 6
Page 2
circumstances manage enterprises, although it will use its best endeavour
to ensure the acquisition of comipetent Management. It will, however, not-
withstanding these limitations, take such action as it considers appropriate
where, in case a project supported by it is in jeopardy, it has to protect
its investment.
9.     The Bank's equity investment in any one enterprise shall not exceed
10% of its unimpaired subscribed capital stock, surplus and reserve at the
time of the investment decision.
10.     The aggregate amountsof the Bank's loans, equity holding or guarantees
to any one enterprise shall not exceed 20% of the Bank's unimpaired subscribed
stock, and reserve at the time of the investment decision.
11.     The Bank's aggregate investments in share capital shall not be allowed
to exceed the Bank's own unimpaired subscribed share capital, surplus and
reserves.
12.     The Bank's total debts including guarantees shall not at any time,
exceed three times the amount of its unimpaired subscribed share capital
plus surplus and reserves.
13.     The Bank shall at all times seek to protect itself against exchange
risks of foreign borrowings.
14.     The Bank shall seek to diversify its investments both  geographically
and by industrial sectors.
15.     The Bank shall give special consideration to enterprises utilizing
considerable local material and labour resources, and to export oriented
projects.
16.     The Bank shall seek to revolve its funds as much as possible by
selling its equity portfolios where prices which give it a reasonable
return on its investments are obtainable.
17.     The Bank shall charge, for its funds or services, interest rates,
fees,or commissions which are compatible with the prevailing market rates
and/or which enable it to earn a reasonable return on its operations.
18.     The Bank shall take such security for its loans and guarantees as
the Bank's Board of Directors shall, for each investment determine adequate
or reasonable.
19.     The Board of Directors shall conduct the business of the Bank in
accordinace with the Company's Act, and shall observe the exchange control
regulations.
20.     The Bank shall recruit qualified personnel for its operations.
21.     The Bank shall supervise its investments to protect its interests and
to enable it to assist its projects to the maximum extent possible.
22.     The Board of Directors of the Bank shall lay such rules and regulations
as it deems fit to govern the day to day operations of the Bank.
DFCD
May 25, 1973



KENYA                                          Annex 7
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
List of Approved IDB Proiects
As of December 31. 1974
(KB ' 000)
Amt. Approved   Amt. Comatd.    Amt. Disbsd   Loan Terms                       Equity                  Remarks
Lroject  and Location   Activity   Loan   Equity   Loan   Equity   Loan Equity   Interest  Term  (of               (IDB's YO
which grace)  of company)
1. Panafrican Paper    Paper         400       -       400       -      400   -          9.57.      14 (2)             -         IFC is sponsor, shareholder and lender;
Mills, Ltd.          Products                                                                                               Orient Paper (India) is technical partner.
(Webuye)                                                                                                                   GOK, ICDC, DFCK, EADB and others also
participating. Construction almost com-
plete; pilot production started. IDB
loan splits foreign-exchange risk between
borrower and GOK. Subloan approved by
Bank.
2. Panafrican Vege-    Vegetable  150         55        -       55       -     13        9.5%       10 (2)           11          SIFIDA, Barclays and ICDC are co-finan-
table Products,   dehydra-                                                                                                  ciers; Bruckner (Germany) is technical
Ltd. (Nakuru)       tion                                                                                                    manager.  Subloan approved; construc-
tion under way. Expect to be in com-
nercial production July, 1975. Expected
to dra  supplies from 13,000 smallholders
aod export 957. of output.
3. East African Wool   Wool Pro-  200         25        -        -       -    -          9.5%         8 (2)          107.        ICDC, Amatex (Switzerland), Kenya Farmerd
Industries         cessing                                                                                                 Association, Agricultural Development,
(Nakuro)                                                                                                                   EADB.Original promoter's suitability
being re-assessed. IDs caking leading
role among investors to (a) seek alter-
native technical partner and (b) secure
acceptable raw materials supply arrange-
ments. Project in abeyance.
4. Thika Cloth Mills   Textile    188    198            -        -      -    -          107.        10 (2)           12.5%       Sponsor is Bhagwanji Group (Kenya); en-
Ltd. (Thika)                                                                                                                financiers are SIFIDA and DFCK.  Invest-
ment plan in revision; IDB reappraising.
5. Trupki Ltd.           Pipe         70       -        -        -      -    -           9.5.         6 (2)            -         Individual promoter.  Prototype for
(Nairobi)          fittings                                                                                                medium-size loans program.  Free lisit
subloan.
6. Nairobi Serena        Tourism    200                 _        _      _    _           9.5%        12 (2)            -         Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya)
Hotel (Nairobi)                                                                                                              IFC, and Kenya Commercial Bank partici-
pating. Approved for IBRD financing.
Under construction.
7. Kenya Cashewnuts,   Agricul-  275          94        -       94          60            9.57        8 (2)         11            ICDC, Maize Production Board, the Bilift
Ltd. (Kilifi)        tural Pro-                                                                                              Cooperative Union, and Banco di Sicilia.
cesaing
IBRD has approved project. Commitment
of loan expected shortly. Productian to
comence July, 1975.  Smallholder sJp-
pliers and intermediate technology Pro-
duction process enhance economics.
8. African Marine &    Dry Dock    150    125           -       125       -   125       not set                       257        Sponsor is Mackenzie (Kenya) Ltd. Can-
Gen. Eng. Co.,                                                                                                               scru,tion uuderway but encountering tech-
Ltd. (AMGECO)                                                                                                                nical problems.  AKGECO not keen on IDB
(Mombasa)                                                                                                                    loan because of foreign exchange risks.
IDB playing significant role in tighten-
inS up project's technical areas.
9. Salt Manufac-         Salt Pro-   300    100         -        _        _   _          10%           7 (2)          20%        Saltec SPA, Ltd. (Italy), ICDC, KenYa
turers Kenya        cessing                                                                                                  Commercial Bank.  Financing plan snag
Ltd. (Malindi)                                                                                                               slowing commitment.  IDB working up al-
-ternatives,
10. Nanyuki Textile       Textile      200      75      200       75       -   -          10%          12 (2)          12.57      Cofinanciers and sponsers include Kenya
Mills Ltd.                                                                                                                   Industrial Investments (KII), David
(Nenyuki)                                                                                                                   Whbitehead and Sons, DEG (West Germany),
Mbtor Hart and Exchange, Ltd., DFCK,
EADE, and ECGD (U.K.). Project awaiting
finalization of financing plan (with
_possLble IFCj2art icipatin.-
11. General Filtts        At  mobile  202       52       -        _        _   _          10%           8 (2)          267.       United Development Incorporated (Israel),
Kenya, Ltd.         fi r                                                                                                    various Kenyan individuals, Standard Bank
(Nairobi)                                                                                                                  Ltd.  IDB re-checking project's market
assumptions to validate financial and
economic projections.
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 8
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
List of IDB ProJect Fossibilities
(as of November 30, 1974)
Area of        New or                                        Total Project Prtential IDB
Activity       Expansion      Location       Ownership        Cost(KE'0O0)   Financing(K£'000)
1.  Alliance Litho Ltd.      Printing           New          Nairobi       Kenyan                150             50
2.  Alpha Tanneries Ltd.     Leather            New           NoA.         Kenyan                 80             20
3.  Holiday Inn Hotel        Tourism           New           Nairobi      Jt. Venture          1,200            300
4. East Africa Packaging    Packaging        Expansion       Nairobi          N.A.              N.A.            350
Industries Ltd.          Products
5. Associated Vehicle        Transport          New          Mombasa      Jt. Venture (30%)   1,200             216
Assemblers
6.  Baker's Yeast            Food Processing   New           Muhoroni     Jt. Venture          1,500            425
7. Textile Mill              Textiles           New          Nakuru       Jt. Venture         17,000            NoA.
8.  Boiler Manufacture       Metal Manu-      Expansion      Kisuti        Kenyan                175             90
facturing
9.  Kenya Mining Industries  Mining           Expansion      Kinangop     Jt. Venture (51%)      750            250
Ltd.
10. Sunset Hotel             Tourism            New          Kisumu         tenyan               416            120
11, Maize Mill               Food Processing   New           Nakuru        Kenyan              1,650            400
12. Intercontinental Hotel   Tourism          Expansion      Nairobi      Jt. Venture          2,706            230
13. Caustic Soda             Chemical           New          Mombasa      Jt. Venture (30%)   4,000             400
14. JoKe Synthetics          Textile            New          Thika        Jt. Venture (51%)   5,300             512
15. Chui Soap Factory Ltd.   Chemical        Replacement    Nairobi         Kenyan               140            NoA,
16. Pharmaceutical Drugs     Chemical           New          Nairobi      Jt. Venture            725            300
17e Sanitary Tampons         Textile            New          Nairobi        Kenyan                90             35
18. Kilaguni Lodge           Tourism          Expansion      Coast         Jt. Venture           175            120
19. Saw Mill                 Forestry         Expansion      Nakuru         Kenyan                90             50
20. Slaughterhouse           Livestock          New          Ngong         Kenyan                561            N.A.
21. Metal Box Co.            Metal Manu-      Expansion      Nairobi       Jt, Venture         1,700            400
facturincg
22, Pharmaceutical Drugs     Chemical           New          Nairobi       Kenyan                200             98
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 9
CRITNYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Assumptions for Operations and Projected Financial Statements (1974-1979)
A. Approvals, Commitments, and Disbursements
1.    Loan approvals (foreign exchange):
1974 - KU1,784,000  Based on estimate of actual traditional operations.
1975 - KB2,312,000  10% increase over 1974 traditional operations plus
K6350,000 for medium-sized industrial loans
(e.g, frcn Finnish credit)
1976 - K12,808,000  10% increase over 1975 traditional operations plus
K,650,000 for medium-sized industrial loans.
1977 - KU2,374,000  10% increase over 1976 traditional operations.
1978 - KL2,611,000  10% increase over 1977 traditional operations.
2.   Loan approvals (local currency):
1974-1976 None
1977 - KL400,000 Loans emphasizing medium-sized projects. Project
costs between KU50,000 - K]150,000).
1978 -  K4o00,000  Same as 1977.
1979 - KEh00,000  Same as 1978.
3.    Equity Investment:
1974 - KE669,000 Based on estimate of actual operations.
1975 - K1750,000
1976-1979 KL650,000 per year.
4.   Commitments:   a)  Assume 60% of Board approvals canmitted in year of
approval, 40% in the following year.
1974  -    Estimate of actual operations.
1975  -    Estimate of actual operations plus 60%
of 1975 approvals.
1976-1979 Follows assumptions.
b)  Equity - Assume 75% of Board approvals committed
in year of approval, 25% the following year.
1974  -    Estimate of actual operations.
1975  -    Estimate of actual plus assumption,
1976-1979 Follows assumptions.
5. Disbursements:
a)  Loans - Assume 40% of commitments in year of commitment, 50% in
second year, and 10% in third year.
1974  -   Estimate of actual operations.
1975  -   Estimate of actual plus assumption.
1976-1979 Follows assumptions.



Annex 9
Pace 2
b) Equity - Assizre 70% of commitments in year of coimiitmtert,
30G  in the following year.
1974  -   Estimate of actual operations.
1975  -   Estimate of actual plus assumption.
1]j76-1979 Follows assumptions0
B. Rescurces
1.  Share Capital:  1975  -  Final payment. of KL500,000 from ICDC and
Government toward original KU2.0 million capital
sub scripti on.
1976  -  New share capital payment of KE500,000 (in nes}
Development Plan)
1977  - New share capital payment of K3500,000 (in new
Development Plan).
2.  Borrowings:  For June 30, 197h-1976 - KL3.9 million0
For June 30, 1976-1978 - K,5.6 million.
For June 30, 1978-1979 - K13.0 million0
C. Financial Operations
1.  Interest charged by IDB is 10% per anrnum plus 1% commitment fee of 1%
on undisbursed loan balance.
For computation in projections, assume effectively 1C& per annum on
loans from 1975. Use 9½% per annum on 1974 loans.
2. Cost of IDB's funds - Assume 7.8% weighted average interest rate of
foreign borrowings plus 0.2% weighted average cammitment fee and other
charges, making it 8.0% per annum (IDB's spread is 109 less 8% or
214).
3.  Yield on short-term investments is 7% per a-nnum,
h. Average loan term: 12 years with two years' grace.
5. Dividend income from equity portfolio: Year of investment - None;
Year 2 - None;  Year 3 - 2%;  Year 4 - 5%;  Year 5 - 6%o
6. Provisions for bad investments:  2.5% of annmal disbursements starting
1974.
7. Adm1niLitrative Expenses:  1974 - K1664,000; 1975 - KT'1h,000 (increase
mostly die to budgeted increase of five new staff, four to be paid by
IDB); 1976-1979 - a-verage of approximately 6.5% per anniwi compoanded
growth.4
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Arnex -'
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Forecast of Operations (1974-1979)
(KI'ooo)
(Actual)      (Actual)                        Projected
1973          1974           1975          197          1277_          1975            1979
FE     LC     FE       LC    FE      LC   FE       LC   FE       LC    FE        LC   FE        LC
Approvals
- Term loans           550      -    1,784      _   2,312     -  2,808      -  2,374   400   2,611    400  2,872    400
- Equity Investment       -          .       -              750       -   65            650       -    650       -    650
Total Approvals    550    55    1,784   669   2,312   750  2,808   650  2,374 1,050   2,611  1,050  2,872  1,050
Commitments
- Term loans              -     -      600      -   3,121     -  2,610      -  2,547   240   2,517    400  2,767    4oo
- Equity Investment       -     -        -   349        -   925       -   675      -   650        -    650       -    650
Total Commitments    -      -      600   349   3,121   925  2,610   675  2,547   890   2,517  1,050  2,767  1,050
Disbursements
- Term loans              -     -      400      -   1,248     -  2,604      -  2,637    96   2,542    280  2,620    384
- Equity Investment       -     -        -   198        -   648       -   750       -   657       -    650       -    650
Total Disbursements  -      -      400   198   1,248   648  2,604   750  2,637   753   2,542    930  2,620  1,034
_-    --            - -   m                                                         =      -=-=-=    
Note: FE = Foreign Exchange
LC = Local Currency
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 11
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Financial Ratios (1973-1979)
A. Income Statement Items as % of Average Total Assets
(Actual) (Actual)   Projected
Gross Income                                 2.5      4.7   7.2   7.6   8.2  8.5    8,8
Less:  Financial Fxpenses                       -     0.5   3.0   4.6   5.2  5.5    5.7
Administrative Expenses                    3.2      4.9   4.0   2.4   1.5  1.2    1.0
(including depreciation)
Operating Profit                            (0.7)   (0.7)  0.2   0.6   1.5  1.8    2.1
Less: Provisions for
Loan and Investment                          -      1.1   1.7   1.6   1.0  0.8    o.6
Net Profit                                   (0.7)   (1.8) (1.5) (1.0)  0.5  1.0    1.5
B. Selected Income and Cost Items
Dividend income as % of average
equity portfolio                                   -     -   0.3   1.2  2.3    3.2
Income from loans as % of average
loan portfolio                            -     2.8  11.1  10.7  10.7 10.7.  10.8
Cost of debt as % of average total
debt                                      _     1.8   8.0   8.0   7.9  7.7    7.7
C.  Net Profit
Net profit as a % of average equity    (0.7)   (2.1) (2.bl) (2.2)  1.1  4.2   6,9
D. Structural Ratios
Debt/Equity                                _      0.3:1 0.9:1 1.8:1 2.4:1 3.2:1 3.8:1
Provisions as a % of loan and equity
portfolio                                 -      2.5%  2.5%  2.5%  2,6%  2.6%  2.7%
E. Debt Coverage
Interest and Principal Coverage            -       -    1.1   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
DF CD
January 28, 1975



Annex 12
KENYA
INDlJSTRIAL DEVELOPMEIT BANK
Actual and Projected Statements of Inccne (1274-1979)
(K]6  000)
Actual                 Projected
Year ending Dec. 31        lJ4                   1975   1976   1977    1978    1979
Income
Interest and Cormission           -        11    1114   315    589       861   1,133
on Loans
Dividend Income                   -         -      -       4     23       60    :103
Income from short-term  in-      22        53     84      71     62       44      19
vestments and deposits
Total Income               22        64    198    390    6714      965   1,255
Expenses
Interest on Borrowings            -         7     82    233    433       619     80o4
Adninistrative Expenses          26        64    104    113    119       127     1314
Depreciation                      2         3      5       7      8        8       8
Total Expenses               -       74    191    353    560       7514     9146
Profit before Provisions         (6)      (10)     7      37   1114      211     309
and Tax
Provisions                        -       15    417       84     85       87      91
Income Taxi/                      -         -      -       -      -        -       -
Met Profit                       (6)      (25)   (40)   (47)    29       1214    2:18
26/ Assume tax exempt.
DFCI
J.inuary 28, 1975



Annex 13
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1974-1979)
(Ks' 000)
Actual                     Projected
Year ending Dec. 31           1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    197t    1979
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and Short-term
investments             863    1,267   1,125    908      869     h33       95
Loans Receivable          -        -       -        40     165     425    689
Total Current Assets      863    1,267   1,125    948   1,034      858      784
Pbrtfolio
Loans
- Import Loans            -         400   1,648   4,212  6,724  9,oo6  11,362
- Local Currency Loans    -        -       -       -        96     280      384
Eq;ity Investments        -         198     846   1,596  2,253   2,903   3,553
Less: provisions          -         (15)    (62)   (146)  (231)   (318)   (409)
Total Portfolio (net)     -         583   2,432   5,662  8,842 11,871  14,890
Fixed Assets (net)          8        23      24      28     24      21       18
Total Assets              871    1,873   3,581   6,638  9,900  12,750  15,692
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable            4         4       4       4      4       4        4
Loans Payable               -         -       -      40    165     425      689
Long-term Debt
Borrowings                  -      400  1,648   4,212  6,820   9,286  31,746
Equity
Share Capital             873    1,500   2,000   2,500  3,000   3,000   3,000
Accumulated Reserves
(losses)                (6)     (31)    (71)   (118)   (89)    (35)    253
Total Iiability and       871    1,873   3,581   6,638  9,900  12,750  15,692
Equity                 -
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 14
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOR!ENT BANK
Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements (1974-1979)
(Ka'ooo)
Actual                     Projected
Sources                  1973     1974     1975      1976     1977     1978     1979
Net Profit               (6)     (25)    (40)       (47)      29      124      218
Non-cash charges          2       18       52       91        93       95       99
Cash generation          (4)      (7)      12       44       122      219      317
Drawdown of:   1/
- Share capital7        873      627      500      500       500        -        -
- Foreign B3orroidngs     -      400    1,248    2,604    2,733    2,822    3,004
Loan Collection           -        -         -      40       165      425      689
Total Sources      869    1,020    1,760    3,188    3,520    3,466    4,010
Uses
Increase in fixed
assets                 10       18        6       11         4        5        5
Loan Repayments           _   -         -           40       165      425      689
Disbursements of:
- Loans                   -      400    1,248    2,604    2,733    2,822    3,004
- Equity Investments             198      648      750      657       650      650
Change in Wbrking Capital
859      404     (142)    (217)     (39)    (436)    (338)
Total Uses         869    1,020    1,760    3,188    3,520    3,466    4,01C
I/Assumes Government of Kenya provides additional equity as projected in Development
Plan of £500,000 each in 1976 and 1977.
DFCD
January 28, 1975



Annex 15
KENYA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Loan
Amount
($ 000)
2975
Third Quarter                                   100
Fourth Quarter                                  150
1976
First Quarter                                   750
Second Quarter                                1,300
Third Quarter                                 1,500
Fourth Quarter                                2,500
1977
First Quarter                                 1,800
Second Quarter                                 600
Third Quarter                                   450
Fourth Quarter                                  250
1978
First Quarter                                  250
Second Quarter                                 175
Third Quarter                                  125
Fourth Quarter                                  5°
Total                           10,000
DFCD
January 28, 1975



