CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1248 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Agricultural Credit and
Agro-industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKAS I
Dated May 5, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI (hereinafter called the
Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "1971 Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Fruit
and Vegetable Export Project) dated June 22, 1971, between the
Republic of Turkey and the Bank, as amended.
(b) "1971 Development Credit Agreement" means the Development
Credit Agreement (Fruit and Vegetable Export Project) dated June 22,
1971, between the Republic of Turkey and the Association, as amended.
(c) "1971 Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(Fruit and Vegetable Export Project) dated June 22, 1971, between
the Bank, the Association and the Borrower, as amended.
(d) "PU" means the project unit established by the Guarantor
in accordance with the provisions of the 1971 Loan Agreement and
the 1971 Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-3-
(e) "Project Coordinating Committee" means the project co-
ordinating committee referred to in Section 3.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
(f) "Project Coordinator" means the project coordinator re-
ferred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
(g) "Agricultural Extension Service" means the General
Directorate of Agricultural Services, an agency of the Guarantor
under the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock of the
Guarantor.
(h) "TSF" means Trkiye qeker Fabrikalari A§, a state econo-
mic enterprise operating under Law No. 440 of the Guarantor, and
such term shall include Adapazari  eker Fabrikasi A.q., Amasya
$eker Fabrikasi A.4., Kayseri qeker Fabrikasi A. ., K6tahya feker
Fabrikasi A.§. and Konya §eker Fabrikasi A..
(i) "TCL" means D.B. Deniz Nakliyat T.A. ., a state economic
enterprise operating under Law No. 440 of the Guarantor.
(j) "Sub-loan" means a loan, to be financed in part out of
the proceeds of the Loan, made by (i) the Borrower under Parts A,
B and D of the Project or (ii) TSF under Part C of the Project.
(k) "Sub-loan Contract" means the contract for any Sub-loan.
(1) "Beneficiary" means the recipient of a Sub-loan.


﻿(m) "Revolving Fund" means the revolving fund referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
(n) "liras" and the letters "TL" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(o) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty
three million dollars ($63,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
* of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Proj-
ect, with the assistance of PU, TSF and TCL, substantially in
accordance with an implementation schedule satisfactory to the
Bank and with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity
with appropriate business, financial, administrative, agricul-
tural and industrial practices; (ii) provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose, and (iii) acquire, main-
tain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises as
shall be, from time to time, necessary or useful in the conduct
of its business and the carrying out of the Project.
(b) In the carrying out of Parts A, B, C and D of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower undertakes that it shall at all times follow,
or cause to be followed, lending and operating policies and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank including those set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement among the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower;
(c) The Borrower shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with the Agricultural Extension Service to define in
detail the responsibilities, functions and administrative procedures
of the Borrower and the Agricultural Extension Service for the
carrying out of Part A (i) of the Project'


﻿- 8 -
(d) The Borrower shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with PU to define in detail the responsibilities,
functions and administrative procedures of the Borrower and PU for
the carrying out of Parts B, D and E of the Project; and
(e) The Borrower shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with TSF to:
(i) lend to TSF out of the Revolving Fund, under terms
and conditions which shall include, inter alia, the
terms and conditions set forth in Part D of Schedule
5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time, amounts necessary to finance
short-term Sub-loans under Part C of the Project
made by TSF in ackordance with Part C (c) of such
Schedule 5;
(ii) define in detail the responsibilities, functions
and administrative procedures of the Borrower and
TSF for the carrying out of Part C of the Project;
and
(iii) obligate TSF to make available to the Borrower, for
payment into the Revolving Fund, all the repayments
made by Beneficiaries of Sub-loans under Part C of
the Project which correspond to portions of such
Sub-loans financed with TSF's own resources.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the arrangements referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section


﻿0)                                  -9-
3.01 of this Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as .the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive such arrangements
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(i) establish and maintain, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, a Revolving Fund in liras
to be used exclusively for carrying out Part C of
the Project;
(ii) keep within the Revolving Fund separate records and
accounts pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment;
(iii) promptly credit the Revolving Fund with: (1) all
amounts repaid by TSF under Section 3.01 (d) (i)
of this Agreement which are not needed immediately
by the Borrower to make payments of principal, in-
terest and other charges under the Loan and (2) any
other amounts in liras which the Guarantor or the
Borrower may contribute to the Revolving Fund;
(iv) utilize the funds in (iii) hereof exclusively for
lending to TSF for purposes of making Sub-loans
under Part C of the Project;


﻿- 10 -
(v) pay into the Revolving Fund for the account of TSF
all amounts made available by TSF to the Borrower
in accordance with Section 3.01 (d) (iii) of this
Agreement; and
(vi) make available to TSF, upon its request, the funds
in (v) hereof for purposes of making Sub-loans under
Part C of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) For the carrying out of Part E(a) of the
Project, the Borrower shall, by September 30, 1976, or such later
date as shall be agreed with the Bank, employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) Unless the Borrower shall make, within six months from
the date of this Agreement, arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization or the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization for the carrying
out of the training included in Part F of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ, within six months from the date of this Agreement,
or such later date as shall be agreed by the Bank, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out
of such training.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall employ a qualified and ex-
perienced Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator shall report
to the Chairman of the Project Coordinating Committee.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall insure or cause to be
insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(i) monitor continuously the progress of the Project,
including comparing such progress vis-a-vis the
implementation schedule of the Project referred to
in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, and evaluate
the effects of the Project;
(ii) prepare for every six-month period, with the assis-
tance, if necessary, of PU and TSF, progress and
evaluation reports; and
(iii) submit, within two months after the end of each
such period, the reports in (ii) hereof to the Proj-
ect Coordinating Committee for prompt transmittal
to the Bank.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, programs, contract documents and work and


﻿-12-
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, such detailed records as shall be necessary to enable the
Borrower to monitor the progress, and evaluate the effects, of
the Project; (iii) shall enable, or cause to be enabled, the Bank's
representatives to see the works, plants, installations and goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iv) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
business, financial, administrative, agricultural and industrial
practices and under the supervision of experienced and qualified
management assisted by adequate, experienced and qualified staff.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower shall employ approximately fifty (or such other number as
shall be agreed with the Bank) additional agricultural engineers
and/or technicians per annum during the years 1976, 1977 and 1978.
(c) The Borrower shall designate the Project Coordinator to
serve as a member of the Project Coordinating Committee.
(d) To assist the Borrower in the studying and carrying out
of activities relating to the improvement of the functions covered
by the Research and Project Evaluation Divisions of the Borrower,
and such other activities as may be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1976 or such
other date as may be agreed with the Bank, employ consultants,
whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
(e) The Borrower shall, within 12 months after the Effective
Date, or such other date as may be agreed with the Bank, prepare


﻿- 14 -
and submit to the Bank and thereafter promptly implement, a program
of improvement of the Borrower's operations, financial planning
and resources.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and maintain separate ac-
counts on its records to be used exclusively for the Project and
shall register in such accounts all receipts and payments for or
in connection with the Project, in accordance with sound account-
ing principles consistently applied.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, in the English language, as soon as available, but in
any case not later than seven months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audit-
ors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 16 -
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, in the English
language, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each of the Borrower's fiscal years, cer-
tified copies of its unaudited financial statements.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 17 -
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain and con-
tinue to operate the special operational fund referred to in
Section 4.03 of the 1971 Project Agreement; (ii) utilize, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, such fund for the sole purpose of
supplementing the funds provided for the operating expenses of PU;
and (iii) set aside, for the deposit in such fund, out of each
payment to the Borrower of interest on Sub-loans under Part B of
the Project, amounts calculated in the same manner and on the same
principal amount as such interest, but at the rate of one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and
(b) The Borrower shall draw on the resources of the fund in
paragraph (a) hereof only for expenditures made by PU, provided
that such expenditures have been authorized by the Director of PU,
or any other person duly designated by him for such purpose.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that any provision governing or
applicable to the organization or operations of the Borrower shall
have been amended in such a manner, suspended or abrogated, so as
to threaten the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obliga-
tions under this Agreement or the efficiency of its operations.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿0                                     -19 -
ARTICLE VII
Amendment of the
1971 Project Agreement
Section 7.01. The 1971 Project Agreement is hereby amended
from the Effective Date of this Agreement by the deletion of all
the provisions in Schedule 2 (Procurement) regarding the ferryboat
included in Part D of the Project described in Schedule 1 to the
1971 Loan Agreement and Schedule 2 to the 1971 Development Credit
Agreement and the substitution therefor of the corresponding pro-
visions of Schedule 4 (Procurement) to this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The Borrower shall introduce to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement referred to in Section 1.02 (c) of the 1971 Loan
Agreement such amendments as shall be required in accordance with
Section 7.01 of this Agreement.
Id l


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the arrangements referred
to in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower, the Agricultural Extension Service,
PU and TSF, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary administrative and governmental action; and
(b) the Revolving Fund has been established.
Section 8.02. The date September 1, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-21 -
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
ZERBANK
Ankara
Nw


﻿- 22 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
By /s/ Muammer Akinci
Authorized Representative


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Lending program
(a) Part A of the
Project
(Agricultural
credit)
(i) Medium-          9,500,000         47% of amounts
and long-                          disbursed
term Sub-
loans
(ii) Short-term       2,280,000         47% of amounts
Sub-loans                          disbursed in the
first year after
the date of this
Agreement
47% of amounts
disbursed in
any subsequent
year over and
above the ag-
gregate amounts
disbursed in the
preceding year


﻿- 24 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) Part B of the
Project
(Agro-industrial
credit)
Medium- and long-    27,000,000        47% of amounts
term Sub-loans                         disbursed
(c) Part C of the
Project
(Cattle Fatten-
ing Program)
Short-term           10,600,000        42% of amounts
Sub-loans                              disbursed by TSF
to Beneficiaries
in the first year
after the date of
this Agreement
over and above
the amounts dis-
bursed by TSF
for cattle fat-
tening in the
year ending De-
cember 31, 1975
42% of amounts
disbursed by TSF
to Beneficiaries
in any subsequent
year over and
above the aggre-
gate amounts dis-
bursed in the
preceding year


﻿-25-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(d) Part D of the
Project
Purchase of one       6,900,000         100% of foreign
ferryboat and                           expenditures or
ancillary equip-                        100% of the ex-
ment                                    factory cost of
locally-manu-
factured goods
(2) Technical Services.
(Part E of the
Project)
(a) Consultants'           1,160,000         100%
services
(b) Vehicles               1,420,000         100% of foreign
expenditures or
100% of the ex-
factory cost of
locally-manufac-
tured vehicles
(3) Training
(Part F of the
Project)
(a) Consultants'             480,000         100%
services to
the Borrower
(b)  Consultants'            560,000         100%
services to
the Project
Unit


﻿- 26 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Technical Assis-
tance to the
Borrower
Consultants' ser-            480,000         100%
vices
(5) Unallocated                 2,620,000
TOTAL      63,000,000


﻿-27-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
*       as-required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to
the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and


﻿- 28 -
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expendi-
tures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph 1, if the Borrower
shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the organi-
zations referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement to fi-
nance the training included in Part F of the Project, Category (3)
(a) and Category (3) (b) of the table in such paragraph shall be
deleted and $1,040,000 equivalent of the Loan shall be cancelled
upon the Bank's notice to the Borrower to this effect.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be finarced out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1976-1978 agricultural
investment program. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Agricultural Credit
The provision to farmers by the Borrower of: (i) short-term
Sub-loans for working capital and other short-term financial re-
quirements; (ii) medium-term Sub-loans for the purchase of agri-
cultural equipment and livestock; and (iii) long-term Sub-loans
for land development and improvement, irrigation development and
on-farm building construction.
Part B:   Agro-industrial Credit
The provision by the Borrower, acting on the advice of PU,
of medium- and long-term Sub-loans to public or private companies,
or cooperatives, for the financing of the establishment of new,
or the expansion, modernization and vertical integration of exist-
ing plants and installations for food processing and other agro-
industries, including cooperative-type projects for village-based
rural industry investments.
Part C:   Cattle Fattening Program
The provision through TSF of short-term Sub-loans to sugar
beet growers for the fattening of cattle.


﻿- 30-
Part D:   Purchase of Ferryboat
The provision of a long-term Sub-loan to TCL by the Borrower
for the purchase by TCL of one ferryboat capable of carrying both
over-the-road trailers and special ship trailers, including ancil-
lary on-shore and on-ship equipment, and the operation by TCL of
such ferryboat.
Part E:   Technical Services
(a) The provision by the Borrower and PU of technical assis-
tance to the Beneficiaries of Sub-loans under Part B of the Proj-
ect, including, inter alia, assistance in the preparation of tech-
nical and financial plans for the credit applications under such
Parts of the Project, and the preparation by the Borrower and PU
of a future agricultural credit and agro-industries project in
Turkey; and
(b) The support of field services under Part A of the Project.
Part F:   Training
Training of staff of the Borrower and PU engaged in services
related to the carrying out of the Project, under programs satis-
factory to the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1981                                      2,060,000
December 15, 1981                                   2,150,000
June 15, 1982                                      2,240,000
December 15, 1982                                  2,335,000
June 15, 1983                                      2,435,000
December 15, 1983                                  2,540,000
June 15, 1984                                      2,645,000
December 15, 1984                                  2,760,000
June 15, 1985                                      2,875,000
December 15, 1985                                  3,000,000
June 15, 1986                                      3,125,000
December 15, 1986                                  3,260,000
June 15, 1987                                      3,395,000
December 15, 1987                                  3,540,000
June 15, 1988                                      3,690,000
December 15, 1988                                  3,850,000
June 15, 1989                                      4,010,000
December 15, 1989                                  4,185,000
June 15, 1990                                      4,360,000
December 15, 1990                                  4,545,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 32 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                               7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity.                         8-1/2%


﻿-33 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Any contracts for Part B of the Project for investment proj-
ects estimated to cost (excluding working capital) the equivalent
of: (i) $2,000,000 or more, shall be let on a turnkey basis under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding; and (ii) less
than $2,000,000 will be awarded under local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   (a) Any contracts for vehicles included in Category (2)(b)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement shall be let under procedures consistent with those set
forth in the Guidelines, on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
(b) For bidding purposes, contracts referred to in (a) here-
of shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, in such manner so
as to ensure that the estimated cost of vehicles under each bid
will not be less than the equivalent of $250,000.
3.   The contract for the purchase of the ferryboat and the ancil-
lary equipment included in Part D of the Project shall be let
under procedures consistent with those set forth in the Guidelines,


﻿- 34-
on the basis of international competitive bidding and in accordance
with general specifications and procedures agreed among the Guar-
antor, the Bank, the Borrower and TCL in letter dated July 21, 1975.
These procedures will also apply to the purchase of the ferryboat
and the ancillary equipment included in Part D of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to the 1971 Development Credit Agreement and
Schedule 1 to the 1971 Loan Agreement in accordance with Section
7.01 of this Agreement.
4.   Procurement of other goods and services shall be carried out
through local commercial channels including private traders and
dealers, State trading entities and cooperatives.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Turkey, procured under procedures set
forth in Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 hereof, may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿-35 -
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Turkey
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Turkey.
(3) Group_C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 36 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowcst evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   With respect to all such contracts included in Parts A.1, A.2
and A.3 hereof which cover investments estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Bank, for its comments, the text
of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make, or cause to be made,
such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿-37 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank, or cause the Bank to be informed, of the name of the bidder
to which the contract is intended to be awarded and the reasons
for the intended award and shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to all such contracts included in Parts A.1, A.2
and A.3 hereof which cover investments estimated to cost the equi-
valent of less than $1,000,000, the Borrower shall furnish, or
cause to be furnished, to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-


﻿- 38-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿*                                       -39 -
SCHEDULE 5
Lending and Operating
Policies and Procedures
A.   Eligibility
Sub-loans will be made by the Borrower for Parts A, B and D
of the Project and by TSF for Part C of the Project, only to those
Beneficiaries who are judged by the Borrower or TSF, as the case
may be, in accordance with their normal administrative procedures,
to be creditworthy during the periods in which the Sub-loans are
outstanding.
The Borrower will accept as security from Beneficiaries, de-
pending on the circumstances, not only real estate mortgages but
also: (i) in the case of short-term Sub-loans, guarantees of third
parties; and (ii) in the case of medium- and long-term Sub-loans,
chattel mortgages on livestock and equipment, plus guarantee of
third parties. In evaluating the adequacy of collateral offered
to it, the Borrower will take into account the estimated increase
in real estate values from any developments to be financed from
the proceeds of its Sub-loans.
TSF will accept as security from Beneficiaries, depending
on the circumstances, chattel mortgages on cattle or the assign-
ment of proceeds of sales of (i) cattle or (ii) future sugar
beet crops.


﻿- 40 -
B.   Procedures
Procedures for preparing, appraising and supervising Sub-loans
will be as follows:
(a) Sub-loans under Part A of the Project
The general objectives of the Borrower in the carrying out
of Part A of the Project will be to provide Sub-loans preferably
to low-income Beneficiaries whose total family income per capita
does not exceed the equivalent of $285. In accordance with such
general objectives, the Borrower will review, by the end of the
year 1977, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the eligibility criteria
applicable to Beneficiaries under Part A of the Project.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower will
use 50% of the amounts of the Loan allocated to Category 1(a)(i)
of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for making
medium- and long-term Sub-loans in amounts not exceeding the equi-
valent of $6,000 for each such Sub-loan.
The Borrower will require the prior approval of the Bank for
making the first Sub-loan for each type of on-farm investment
under Part A of the Project, including, inter alia, on-farm in-
vestments for fruit, vegetable, beef, dairy, sheep, poultry, land
and water resources and farm equipment.
Integrated farm development plans necessary to support
medium- and long-term Sub-loan applications will be prepared by
the farmer with the assistance of an engineer or technician of


﻿*                           -41-
the Bcrrower. Such plans will include detailed analyses and pro-
jections. After approval of the Sub-loan, the engineer or techni-
cian will continue to advise the farmer and will supervise progress
of the farm development undertaken.
Short-term Sub-loans will be based on crop area and/or number
of livestock units, as certified by village agricultural extension
agents to be assigned by the Guarantor for the carrying out of Part
A (i) of the Project.
The Borrower will approve short-term Sub-loans in accordance
with standard guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, for financing
selected crop or livestock inputs.
(b) Sub-loans under Part B of the Project
The Borrower and PU will jointly or separately, in accor-
dance with the definition of their responsibilities contained
in the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan
Agreement, (i) assist prospective Beneficiaries in preparing
development plans for investments in agro-industries which are
eligible for financing under the priorities set up by the State
Planning Organization of the Guarantor, (ii) make the technical,
financial and economic appraisal of Sub-loan applications and
(iii) supervise progress of the investment projects.
The appraisals of Sub-loan applications will include evidence
of access to raw materials at reasonable prices and analysis of
market prospects.


﻿-42-
The Borrower will require the prior approval of the Bank for
making (i) the first Sub-loan for each type of agro-industry in-
vestment under Part B of the Project, including, inter alia, agro-
industry investments for cold storage, fruit and vegetable packing,
fruit and vegetable processing and feed mills, or (ii) a Sub-loan
in an amount exceeding the equivalent of $1,200,000.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower will
not make to any single Beneficiary any Sub-loan which by itself
or aggregated with any other Sub-loan to any such Beneficiary,
exceeds the equivalent of $3.0 million, or for any investment,
which, including working capital, exceeds the equivalent of
$8,000,000.
(c) Sub-loans under Part C of the Project
TSF will make at least 50% of all Sub-loans under Part C of
the Project to Beneficiaries who will fatten no more than 20 head
of cattle.
TSF will be responsible for the technical implementation and
supervision of cattle fattening financed under Part C of the Pro4-
ect.
Disbursements to the Beneficiaries on account of Sub-loans
will be made by TSF.
(d) Sub-loan under Part D of the Project
Lending to TCL will be made by the Borrower on the basis of
a technical, financial and economic evaluation made by TCL and
approved by the Bank.


﻿-43 -
C.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
Sub-loan contracts shall include inter alia the terms and
conditions set forth herein below; at such time as the Guarantor,
the Borrower, or the Bank may request, the terms and conditions
to be applied to future sub-loan contracts under the Project will
be reviewed by the Borrower with the Guarantor and the Bank in
light of prevailing-conditions at the time of such review:
(a) Terms and conditions applicable to Sub-loans under Part A
of the Project
(i) Sub-loans will be made and repayable in liras;
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-
loan will be payable at the rate of not less than
11% per annum inclusive of all commissions, taxes
and any other charges, or at such other rates as
shall be agreed among the Guarantor, the Bank and
the Borrower, provided, however, that the Borrower
should be allowed a spread of not less than 2-1/2%;
(iii) the repayment periods and repayment schedules will
reflect the capacity of the Beneficiary to repay
and the cash flow position of the investment plan
but will not exceed one year for short-term Sub-
loans, five years (including grace) for medium-term
Sub-loans and ten years (including grace) for long-
term Sub-loans;


﻿- 44-
(iv) the short-term Sub-loans will be in amounts not
exceeding the estimated expenses, based on the
established standard guidelines as indicated in
Part B(a) herein;
(v) the amount of medium- and long-term Sub-loans will
not exceed the equivalent of approximately 80% of
the estimated cost of the investments to be financed
therewith;
(vi)  the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the
purposes approved by the Borrower;
(vii)  the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
see the premises, the improvement of which is fi-
nanced by the Sub-loan, any equipment, materials
or inputs financed by the Sub-loan, the business
of the Beneficiary, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(viii)  the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
obtain all such information as they may reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the opera-
tions and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
(ix) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan will be purchased at a rea-
sonable price, aceount being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and


﻿- 45 -
efficiency and reliability thereof, and availability
of service and spare parts therefor;
(x)  the Beneficiary of a medium- and long-term Sub-loan
will carry out his development plan, as approved,
and will carry on his business, with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
technical, agricultural, commercial and financial
practices and standards, and will maintain adequate
records; and
(xi)  the Borrower will have the right to suspend or
terminate access by the Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by him
to perform his obligations under the Sub-loan Con-
tract and, in appropriate cases, to premature the
Sub-loan.
(b) Terms and conditions applicable to Sub-loans under Part B
of the Project.
(i) except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Beneficiary will repay
the principal of each Sub-loan in liras, such re-
payment to be made in the equivalent in liras,
as of the respective date of each repayment of
principal, of the foreign currency withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Loan Account for the purpose
of making the Sub-loan in question;


﻿-46                                       0
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-
loan will be payable in liras at the rate of not
less than 14.4% per annum inclusive of all commis-
sions, taxes and any other charges, or at such
other rates as shall be agreed among the Guarantor,
the Bank and the Borrower, provided, 4owever, that
the Borrower should be allowed a spread of not less
than 2-1/2%;
(iii) the repayment periods will reflect the capacity of
the Beneficiary to repay and the cash flow position
of the investment plan but will not exceed 12 years,
including 3 years of grace;
(iv) Sub-loans will be repayable in equal annual install-
ments;
(v) the Beneficiary will pay to the Borrower a fee for
any services rendered to such Beneficiary under
Part E (a) of the Project, the amount of such Lee
to be equivalent to 50% of the remuneration of the
consultants used for the rendering of such services;
(vi) the amount of Sub-loans will not exceed 70% of the
estimated cost (including initial working capital)
of the investments to be financed therewith;
(vii) the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the
purposes approved by the Borrower;


﻿*                      -47 -
(viii) the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
see the premises, the improvement of which is
financed by the Sub-loan, any equipment, materials
or inputs financed by the Sub-loan, the business
of the Beneficiary, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(ix)  the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
obtain all such information as they may reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the opera-
tions and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
(x)  the Borrower will have the right to deny the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, any country which
is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland);
(xi)  the goods, works and services (other than consul-
tants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan will be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement;
(xii)  the Beneficiary will carry out his development
plan, as approved, and will carry on his business,
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with appropriate technical, agricultural, industrial,
commercial and financial practices and will main-
tain adequate records; and


﻿- 48 -
(xiii) the Borrower will have the right to suspend or
terminate access by the Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by him
to perform his obligations under the Sub-loan Con-
tract and, in appropriate cases, to premature the
Sub-loan.
(c) Terms and conditions applicable to Sub-loans under Part C
of the Project
(i) Sub-loans will be made and repayable in liras;
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-
loan will be payable in liras at the rate of not
less than 14.4% per annum inclusive of all commis-
sions, taxes and any other charges, or at such
other rates as shall be agreed among the Guarantor,
the Bank and the Borrower, provided, however, that
the Borrower should be allowed a spread of not less
than 3%;
(iii) the repayment periods will not exceed 4 months;
(iv) the amount of Sub-loans will not exceed 65% of the
estimated cost of the feeder stock and feedstuffs
over the fattening period;
(v) the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
loan will be used exclusively for the purposes
approved by the Borrower;


﻿-49 -
(vi) the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
see the feeder stock or feedstuffs financed by the
Sub-loan, the premises of the Beneficiary and any
relevant records and documents;
(vii)  the Bank and the Lorrower will have the right to
obtain all such information as they may reasonably
request relating to the foregoing;
(viii) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan will be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and relia-
bility thereof;
(ix) TSF will have the right to market any feeder stock
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan; and
(x) the Borrower will have the right to suspend or
terminate access by the Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by him
to perform his obligations under the Sub-loan
Contract.
(d) Terms and conditions applicable to the Sub-loan under Part D
of the Project
(i) the Sub-loan will be made in liras;


﻿-50-
(ii) the Beneficiary will repay the principal of the
Sub-loan in liras, provided, however, that repay-
ment of any portion of the principal of such Sub-
loan which is financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan will be made in an amount in liras, determined
as of the respective date of each repayment of
principal, equival-ant to the foreign currency with-
drawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account for the
purpose of making such Sub-loan;
(iii)  interest on the outstanding principal of the Sub-
loan will be payable in liras at the rate of not
less than 8-1/2% per annum inclusive of all com-
missions, taxes and any other charges;
(iv)  the repayment term will not exceed 12 years, in-
cluding 3 years of grace;
(v)  the Sub-loan will be repayable in equal annual
installments;
(vi)  the amount of the Sub-loan will not exceed 78% of
the estimated cost of the goods to be financed
therewith;
(vii)  the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the
purposes approved by the Borrower;


﻿- 51 -
(viii) the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
see the goods financed by the Sub-loan, the business
of the Beneficiary, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(ix) the Bank and the Borrower will have the right to
obtain all such information as they may reasonably
request related to the foregoing and to the opera-
tions and financial condition of the Beneficiary;
(x) the Borrower will have the right to deny use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, any country which is not
a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland);
(xi) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan will be procured in accordance with
the provisions of Part A.4 of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement;
(xii) the Beneficiary will carry out its development
plan, as approved, and will carry on his busi-
ness, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate technical, maritime,
comercial and financial practices and standards,
and will maintain adequate records;
(xiii) without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
the Beneficiary will operate, maintain, renew and
repair the ferryboats purchased under Part D of


﻿- 52 -
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate technical, maritime,
conmercial and financial standards and practices
and will provide, or take all steps necessary to
obtain, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the
purpose;
(xiv) the Beneficiary will enter into arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with port authorities
in Italy or Yugoslavia regarding the port facil-
ities that are required for the operation of the
ferryboats financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-10an;
(xv) the Beneficiary will employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist the Beneficiary in the pro-
curement of the ferryboat financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan and in establishing
the operation system for such ferryboats, includ-
ing on-shore facilities, training personnel,
cargo handling operations, and developing
schedules; and
(xvi) the Borrower will have the right to suspend or
terminate access by the Beneficiary to the use
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure


﻿-53 -
by him to perform his obligations under the Sub-
loan Contract and, in appropriate cases, to pre-
mature the Sub-loan.
D.   Terms and Conditions Applicable to Loans from the Borrower
to TSF in accordance with Section 3.01 (d) (i) of the Loan
Agreement
All loans from the Borrower to TSF will be made on terms and
conditions which will be substantially the same as those of the
Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of such loans.
The contractual arrangements to be entered into between the
Borrower and TSF will require TSF to: (a) assume the risk of non-
payment for all Sub-loans made by TSF out of the proceeds of such
loan and (b) establish and maintain separate accounts to be used
exclusively for Part C of the Project and record in such accounts
all receipts and payments for or in connection with each Sub-loan
made by TSF, all in accordance with sound accounting principles
consistently applied.
The Bank and the Borrower will be entitled to see and receive
promptly upon their request certified copies of the records main-
tained pursuant to (b) above.


