CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1248 TU
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Agricultural Credit and
Agro-industries Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 5, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Bank and TUrkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to sixty-three
million dollars ($63,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's en-
tering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so
to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿*                                     - 3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes to:
(a) provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be pro-
vided, promptly as required, on a basis acceptable to the Bank:
d-
(i) such funds in liras, in addition to the proceeds
of the Loan and the Borrower's own resources, as
shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to dis-
burse the full amounts of Sub-loans committed un-
der Parts A, B and C of the Project and to carry
out Parts E and F of the Project;
(ii) such funds in liras as shall be equivalent to:
(1) 100% of the amounts repaid by the Borrower
to the Bank under the Loan for withdrawals made


﻿by the Borrower under Categories 3 and 4 of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement; and (2) 50% of the amounts
repaid by the Borrower to the Bank under the
Loan for withdrawals made by the Borrower under
Category 2 (a) of the table set forth in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; and
(iii) through the annual investment and financial pro-
gram of the Guarantor, such funds in liras, in-
cluding capital contributions, in addition to
the Borrower's own resources, as shall be neces-
sary to enable the Borrower to maintain a sound
financial structure and carry out its other obli-
gations under Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement;
and
(b) provide TSF and TCL or cause TSF and TCL to be provided,
promptly as required, on a basis acceptable to the Bank, such
funds in liras, in addition to the proceeds of the Loan and the
resources of TSF and TCL, as shall be necessary to enable TSF and
TCL to carry out Parts C and D of the Project, respectively.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and in-
terest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make ex-
press provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, sole-
ly as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-6-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or op-
erating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any such
subdivision, including assets held by the T.C. Merkez Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor shall, to the satisfaction
of the Bank:
(i) under the responsibility of the State Planning
Organization of the Guarantor, maintain and
operate, until the date of the completion of
the Project, a Project Coordinating Committee
composed of: (1) one senior representative each
from the Ministry of Finance of the Guarantor,
the State Planning Organization of the Guarantor,
who shall be the Chairman of the Project Coordi-
nating Committee, the Agricultural Extension Ser-
vice, PU and TSF; and (2) the Project Coordinator,
who shall be the Secretary of the Project Coordi-
nating Committee;


﻿-7-
(ii) assign to such Project Coordinating Committee all
the responsibilities and functions required for
effective coordination and integration of !-l
Project activities by the Borrower, the Agricul-
tural Extension Service, PU, and TSF, with any
other relevant ministries, authorities and
agencies of the Borrower, and with the Bank,
such responsibilities and functions to include,
inter alia, (1) the evaluation of the qualifi-
cations of the Project Coordinator and the ap-
proval of his appointment; (2) the review from
time to time of the lending and operating poli-
cies and procedures for the Project on the basis
of the priorities set by the Guarantor and the
making of any proposals to change such policies
and procedures with the agreement of the Guar-
antor, the Bank and the Borrower; (3) the assis-
tance to the Borrower in monitoring the progress
of the Project and in solving any problems inter-
fering with the carrying out of the Project; (4)
the assistance to the Borrower in evaluating the
financial, economic and social effects of the
Project; and (5) the review of the semi-annual
progress reports prepared by the Borrower on the
carrying out of the Project, and the prompt
transmittal to the Bank of such reports; and
(iii) cause the Project Coordinating Committee to hold
meetings, at least every three months, to carry
out the responsibilities and functions referred
to in (ii) hereof.


﻿- 8 -
(b) Provide, or cause to be provided, the Project Coordina-
ting Comittee, promptly as needed, with such qualified and ex-
perienced supporting staff, facilities, funds and other resources
as shall be required for the efficient discharge of its functions
and responsibilities.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Parts B, E and F of the Project, the Guarantor shall:
(i) maintain and continue to operate PU;
(ii) continue to employ in PU a qualified and experi-
enced full-time Director;
(iii) continue to employ in PU such technical staff as
shall be necessary for the efficient operation of
PU; and
(iv) continue to provide, or cause to be provided, PU,
promptly as needed, with such supporting staff,
facilities, funds and other resources as shall be
required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses and
other approvals required, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall,


﻿-9-
promptly as required, take all action necessary on its part to
enable the Borrower to perform its obligations under Sections
3.01 and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall cause TCL to employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist TCL in
the procurement of the ferryboats financed under (i) the Loan
Agreement and (ii) the 1971 Loan Agreement and 1971 Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall, in accordance with its
laws, appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank for the
purposes of Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall compensate or shall cause
the Borrower to be compensated for any losses related to the
carrying out of Parts A and C of the Project incurred in connection
with the payment of interest or other charges on, or the repayment
of principal of, the Loan, resulting frcr change in the rate of
exchange between liras and the currency or currencies in which
such payments or repayments are to be made.


﻿- 10-
ARTICLE IV
Amendment of the 1971 Loan Agreement and
the 1971 Development Credit Agreement
Section 4.01. The 1971 Development Credit Agreement is hereby
amended as from the Effective Date of this Agreement, as follows:
(i)       By the deletion of Categories I(a) and VI of
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the
Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan) and the
substitution therefor of the following new Categories
I(a) and VI:
"I. Transportation
equipment:
(Part D of the Pro-
ject)
(a) Ferryboat &ad        6,900,000          100% of foreign
ancillary equip-                        expenditures or
ment                                    100% of the ex-
factory cost of
locally manu-
factured foods
VI. Unallocated               1,800,000"; and
(ii)      By the deletion of Part D of Schedule 2 (Description
of the Project) and the substitution therefor of
the following Part D:
"(a) The provision of a long-term loan to Turkish
Cargo Lines by ABT for the purchase by Turkish


﻿*                           -11 -
Cargo Lines of one ferryboat capable of carrying
both over-the-road trailers and special ship
trailers, including ancillary on-shore and on-ship
equipment, and the operation by Turkish Cargo Lines
of such ferryboat.
(b) The provision of loans to transport companies
for the construction of refrigerated trailers and
towing units (including spare parts)."
Section 4.02. The 1971 Loan Agreement is hereby amended as
from the Effective Date of this Agreement by the deletion of Part
D of Schedule 1 (Description of the Project) and the substitution
therefor of the following Part D:
"(a) The provision of a long-term loan to Turkish Cargo
Lines by ABT for the purchase by Turkish Cargo Lines of one
ferryboat capable of carrying both over-the-road trailers and
special ship trailers, including ancillary on-shore and
on-ship equipment, and the operation by Turkish Cargo Lines
of such ferryboat.
C') The provision of loans to transport companies for
the construction of refrigerated trailers and towing units
(including spare parts)."
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall introduce such amendments
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 1.02(c)
of the 1971 Loan Agreement as shall be required in accordance with
Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
HAZINE
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿*                          -13-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Muammer Akinci
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


