Report No. PID6228
Project Name                     Brazil-Second National Environmental (@)
Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       BRPE35741
Borrower                         The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing
Agency                           Ministry of Environment (MMA)
Esplanada dos Ministerios,
Bloco B, 80 Andar;
70.068-900 Brasilia, DF - Brasil
Dra. Regina Crespo Gualda, Coordenadora do
Programa Nacional do Meio Ambiente
Phone: (061) 317-1154
Fax:   (061)  224-5605
Date this PID prepared           March 4, 1998
Date this PID revised            September 29, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           July 26, 1999
Project Board Date               November 23, 1999
Country and Sector Background:   Since 1994, the government of Brazil (GOB)
has focused heavily on economic stabilization, including control of inflation,
reduction of government expenditures, control of public debt, improved service
delivery and greater efficiency in the public sector, and privatization of
state-owned enterprises in key sectors.    Environment has also been an
important, although secondary, priority for at least three reasons: (a)
growing public awareness of environmental costs and the need for improved
environmental management; (b) increasing Government sensitivity to domestic
and external criticism of poor natural resource management in specific, and
inadequate environmental management in general; and (c) growing recognition in
both the public and private sectors that better environmental management
provides a competitive edge to exporters.
While actions to enhance and protect the environment have increased in recent
years, environmental problems in Brazil have nevertheless continued to grow,
causing great impacts on the health and well being of the population and on
natural resources. A number of initiatives have been developed to mitigate
environmental degradation. For instance, the G-7 Rain Forest Pilot Program
supports projects directed to environmental protection and the search for
sustainable alternatives to deforestation in the Amazon region. Likewise,
legislation was recently passed that establishes a national framework for
integrated water resource management that improves the setting for better
management of water related problems.
In parallel to these initiatives, and in order to address the issues discussed
above, the World Bank financed the First National Environmental Project (NEP-
I) (loan closed on December 31, 1998), predecessor to the proposed project.
The NEP-I made considerable investments to strengthen IBAMA (the national



environmental protection agency), and provided support to create federal
conservation units and to strengthen state environmental protection activities
in three ecosystems in the country: the Atlantic Forest, the Pantanal wetlands
and the coastal zone.
A matching grant program (PED) incorporated in 1994, provided support to some
90 resource management projects administered by municipal governments. Its
success led the Ministry of Environment to demonstrate great interest in
developing a new project to continue strengthening decentralized environmental
protection in Brazil. In particular, there has been explicit interest in
building on the experience of the "PED" Matching Grants Project at State and
local levels. Overall, there is marked interest to build upon and consolidate
the lessons learned from NEP-I and integrate them into the components of the
Second National Environmental Project (NEP II).
Project Objective:       The proposed project seeks to improve environmental
quality in priority areas by increasing the effectiveness of environmental
institutions at local, state and national levels in Brazil. The goals of the
Program include institutional strengthening through improvements in
environmental regulation, environmental monitoring, coastal zone managementand
decentralization aimed at improved management and conservation of priority
environmental assets. The Program would assist in the identification of key
environmental problems in Brazil's 26 States and the Federal District, and
help to build the capacity to manage them effectively.
Project Description:     The project is conceived as an Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) divided into three phases over a ten year period (Phase I: 2 years;.
Phase II: 4 years; Phase III: 4 years) . The proposed project would be the
First Phase of the Program. The loan would finance institutional development
of state and local environmental agencies through the following components:
Component I: Project Coordination and Technical Assistance
Under this component, during Phase I, state governments would receive support
and technical assistance from the Ministry of Environment and would identify
the key environmental priorities of the state (in terms of critical areas and
its environmental problems) by gravity, opportunity and cost-benefit.     Once
these areas and priorities are identified, and eligibility requirements have
been fulfilled, states can identify and prepare proposals for subprojects to
enhance or protect particular environmental assets. Overall project
coordination would also be executed under this component;
Component II: Institutional Strengthening
This component would help develop and strengthen key instruments for
environmental management at the national, state and local levels. The
initiatives under this component would complement and enhance the activities
that would be developed under the Environmental Assets component. These key
instruments would be developed under the three following subcomponents:
(i) Environmental Licensing: This subcomponent would help improve
environmental licensing in Brazil, and would support initiatives in the States
to streamline and strengthen procedures for licensing, linking it directly to
improvements in environmental quality;
- 2-



(ii) Environmental Monitoring. Under this subcomponent, monitoring and
information systems would be designed and implemented, tailored to the needs
of decision makers in the public and private sectors and the critical areas
identified in the states. In the first Phase, the monitoring subcomponent
would support improvements in State-level water quality monitoring systems by
financing the design and upgrading of existing monitoring systems or
installing new monitoring systems in water basins where there are actual or
potential conflicts in water use. Information collected through the
monitoring instruments would be analyzed and disseminated in a timely fashion
to decision makers and the public. Also, the information gathered through the
monitoring systems is intended to strengthen and complement the enforcement
capabilities of the State;
(iii) Coastal Zone Management. This subcomponent would support state efforts
to carry out environmental and economic zoning activities in order to better
manage coastal resources by establishing integrated environmental action plans
for managing marine and coastal pollution, and contribute to the sustainable
use of marine and coastal resources.
Component III:    Environmental Assets (Subprojects).
The environmental assets component of the proposed project would make
financial resources available to States in the form of matching grants for the
design and implementation of subprojects that enhance or protect particular
environmental assets. Environmental assets are defined as features of the
natural environment that provide important services to human communities and
which require management in order to conserve, protect or improve their
capacity to deliver those services. Examples are conservation units that help
protect watersheds, clean air, natural vegetative resources, etc.
The Environmental Assets Component would be implemented in three stages: (i)
prequalification; (ii) subproject appraisal; and (iii) implementation. In the
first stage, States would need to demonstrate fulfillment of specific
eligibility requirements which reflect their environmental management capacity
and performance level. All States would have access to technical assistance
in fulfilling the eligibility criteria. Each state would be placed in one of
three classes, based on its environmental management capacity as defined by
the criteria. States in higher classes would be eligible for larger matching
grants. This incentive is designed for all states to continuously improve
their environmental capacity and performance. Design and implementation of
the subprojects would be carried out in a participatory fashion with local
coalitions that could include Municipal, State or Federal agencies, NGOs, the
private sector, etc. Both the project itself and the environmental impact
would be subject to careful monitoring from baseline data throughout the life
of the subproject. The project would be designed to allow maximum flexibility
in developing subprojects from the pilot phase to full implementation.
Project Financing:       The total Program cost is estimated to be US$300
million over the ten-year life of the APL. The first phase of the Program is
estimated to cost about US$30 million of which about US$15 million (50 percent
of the total) would be financed by the IBRD. The counterpart contribution of
US$15 million would be provided by the Federal Government. The second and
third phases would be financed by the Bank, the Government of Brazil and
matching funds from the States receiving grants for the Environmental Assets
Component.
-3-



Project Implementation: The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the
borrower, and the MMA the executing agency. A project coordination unit (PCU)
is established within the MMA and would serve as the main interlocutor between
the Bank and the Ministry of Environment. The PCU is composed of staff from
MMA with previous experience with NEP-I. The PCU would be responsible for
overall management (planning, administration, supervision, and reporting) of
the project, for providing technical assistance to states, and for
coordinating a council which would include consultation with key stakeholders
(private sector, NGO's, etc.) and with the states in order to monitor the
progress of the program's activities.
Project Sustainability: The proposed Second National Environmental Project is
designed to be a self-sustaining approach to addressing key environmental
problems in a participatory manner at a local, state and national level. It
provides a framework in which State environmental priorities can be diagnosed
and technical, economic, financial and institutional criteria are applied to
determine remedy options and select a financially sustainable solution. The
inclusion of cost-recovery mechanisms wherever possible through user fees,
application of polluter/user-pays principles, revenue sharing arrangements,
etc. would be applied to assure sustainability to subprojects.
Lessons Learned: The earlier National Environmental Project (NEP-I) was the
Bank's first stand-alone, national-level project designed to strengthen
environmental institutions. It has achieved many successes and also provided
valuable lessons on how best to help borrowers improve environmental
management.   Among these lessons are the following:    (i) Sustainable
improvements in environmental quality require partnerships between
federal/local governments and public/private sectors; (ii) "Pure" or
"means-oriented" institutional development is less effective than the "end-
oriented" approach which centers on specific improvements in environmental
quality; (iii) Public information and the development of environmental
constituencies are key to institutional development; and (iv) states
demonstrated capacity to respond to relatively small incentives.
Environmental Aspects: If approved, the project would be beneficial in
environmental terms both directly and indirectly. The subprojects to be
supported under the environmental assets component, which would be closely
monitored and assessed, are expected to result in measurable improvements in
environmental quality. All potential subprojects would be screened by MMA and
the Bank for potential environmental impacts and, where appropriate,
environmental analysis and mitigation planning would be carried out as
required under Brazilian environmental law and Bank Guidelines. These
environmental screening, analysis, and mitigation procedures are set out in
detail in the draft Operational Manual reviewed during project appraisal.
MMA's capacity to screen and monitor subprojects for possible adverse
environmental impacts and to ensure the design and implementation of adequate
mitigation measures was also reviewed at appraisal.
Program Objectives Categories: Environmental Sustainable Development
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
-4-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202)  522-1500
Daniel Gross
Task Manager
(202) 473-0055
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 1, 1999.
Phase duration would be criteria-based rather than time-based.
In view of the limited time of Phase I and the highest demand for Monitoring services
relates to water resources, it was agreed that Phase I Monitoring activities would focus
on water quality.
Four States (PR, SP, MG, and RO) have implemented a revenue-sharing scheme known as
"ICMS Ecologico" in which a portion of the State VAT is allocated to municipalities that
encompass conservation units, watersheds, and other important environmental assets. NEP
II would encourage the extension of such schemes to other states.
Recently strengthened by the National Environment Council (CONAMA) Resolution 237 of
December 19, 1997.
-5-



