Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12500
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PItOJECT
(CREDIT 1460-BRO)
NOVEBR 17  1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12500
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
s docui ent bas a mested dId_butm and may be used by   t     only i the pedonnance of
thi .tlWca' du0es Its _ontent may d  _tise be dicosd     Wo1d BaR  notborzu|on.



FOR QMICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinton, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
OHff of Dkoatm-GUMv
0pah~ Euluth
November 17, 1993
MEM)RANPUM TO THE E                     IRECTORS AND TPRFS
Subject:    Project Comp!etion Report on BHWTAN
forestr Devplopm¢nt Proect (Credit 1460-BHU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Bhutan - Forestry Development Project
(Credit 1460-BHU) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part I of the Project Completion
Report is well prepared. Part II has not been received from the Borrower.
The project aimed to promote forest renewal, stem uncontrolled exploitation of natural forests
and open acoess resources, strengthen expertise in forest management in Bhutan's Department of
Forestry, and reduce its dependence on foreign personneL Project outcome was satisactory, vith
all physical targets met or exceeded, despite some slowness caused by late reporting and availability
of counterpart funds. The Borrower and the Bank showed necessary flexibility when faced with
security problems and natural difficulties in the original project are&
stitutional development was substantial, but sustainability is consdered to be uncertn.
During impmentation the focus of the project shifted from medium-term management of forests
to provide energy for wood-based industries, to long-term management of fests for multiple
purposes. While this shift is appropriate, it is based largely on theoretical values for forecaty
performance in Bhutan, and can only succeed if it is carefully managed as a controUed expiment,
with a high level of management and effectve management information systems. It is uncertai if the
will and the resources exist to do this.
A performance audit is not planned at this time, and an impact evaluation may be appropriate
following completion of the Second Foratry Development Project (Cr. 1900-BHU), due to close at
the end of 1993.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FoR OMCALu USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BHU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .....                                             ................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................---- ..  ..           ..    .  - . iii.
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ............. ..... 1
Background                ...  ................. 1
Project Objectives               .................                      2
Project Description                    .      . . .            ..........*** 3
Project Costs and Financing Plan .       .    ............................. 3
Project Design and Organization ................................ 3
Project Implementationplemn...                        ......  4
Project Results                    .....12
Project Sustainability             . . . .. ..             ....... 14
IDA Performance                     .. . 15
Borrower Performance            .       .     ..... .... ......... 15
Project Relationship                 .         ..16
Consultancy Services            .    ................. .16
Project Documentation and Data                  . ...          ....16
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S (RGOB) PERSPECTIVE ......17
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Operation                  ..... 18
Project Timetable..........                                            19
Credit Disbursements. . l... ....                              ..    . 19
Project Implementation                     ......................................... 20
Project Financing and Costs
Project Financing.......                          .     ...... 20
Project Costs .21
Project Results
Direct Benefits                      ...... 21
Financial and Economic Impact                  .        .. 22
Technical Assistance.....    22
Study Tours and Training             ..22
Status of Covenants..                                    ...... . .  23
Use of IDA Resources
Staff Inputs   ....23
Missions                   . . .24
Exchange Rates   . .24
Wood Product Yields and Prices from Land Clearing.                     25
Cost and Revenues of Land Clearing Operation ................... 2S
Plantation Yield Estimates......  ........ .   .... .....25
This document has a restricted distribution and miy be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authortion.



Financial Re-evaluation of Project Performance ................. 26
Economic Re-evaluation of Project Performance    ......... 27
ANINEX 1: Technical Assistance to Ref(restation and Salvage Logging
(Terminal Rep3rt of UNDPIPAO Project)
ANNEX 2: Summary of Changes in Project Location, Concept and Schedule
ANNEX 3s Project Status Statement from Project Management
In Lieu of PCR Mission Visit to Project Area



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BH5)
PREFACE
T- is is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Forestry Development
Project in Bhutan, for which IDA Credit 1460-BHU in the amount of SDR 5,400,000
(US$5.5 million equivalent) was approved on June 25, 1984. The Credit was closed
on September 30, 1992, two years after the scheduled closing date, following two
extensions which permitted the afforestation of a larger area than originally
planned. At credit closing, a total of SDR 4.1 million (76Z) of the original SDR
5.4 million credit had been disbursed, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR 1.2
million. A disbursement grace period of four months (to January 31, 1993) was
allowed for expenditures incurred before September 30, 1992. The balance of SDR
1.2 million was cancelled on March 2, 1993.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Asia Technical Department - Environment and Natural Resources Division. The
Borrower has until June 7, 1993 to complete and submit Part II to IDA.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a project completion mission to Bhutan
in December of 1992.   The Borrower was requested on April 23, 1993 to prepare
and submit Part II to IDA by June 7, 1993. The report is based inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Repo.:t; the Development Credit Agreement; supervision
reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and internal IDA memoranda.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BUAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BHU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objettives
1.        The long-term objective of the Forestry Development Project was to
promote forest renewal in support of local wood-based industries. The project
was to demonstrate land clearing and forest plantation techniques which would
lead to an expanded reforestatior. program to ensure long-term wood supply to
existing and planned users.
2.        A parallel objective was to address emerging environmental problems
stemming from uncontrolled exploitation of natural forests for fuelwood, timber
and grazing, particularly in the proximity of roads and settled areas in southern
Bhutan. The Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) wished to reinforce the Department
of Forestry's (DOF) authority over preservation and exploitation of natural
forests.
3.        Specific objectives of the project were to train local Bhutanese to
take over skilled positions which previously hau to be imported on short-term
contracts from neighboring countries.  Specifically, DOF staff were to recieve
training and technical assistance in the fields of road construction, species
selection, nursery operations, logging, plantation establishment, and project
management.   Training objectives were to be met over six years during the
implementation of a pilot reforestation project designed to clear 3,800 ha of
degraded forest land and to replant 2,800 ha with suitable tree species.
imPlementation ExDerience
4.        Project work began,  as planned,  in Sarbhang and Phuntsholing in
1984/85. During the first year, forest nurseries were established at both sites
and some 300 ha were planted. Originally, short-rotation plantations were to be
established on degraded forest sites at Phuntsholing to supply fuelwood to local
markets and charcoal to the Bhutan Calcium Carbide Limited (BCCL) Project.
However, early in the project, a decision was made to develop separate
plantations for BCCL.
5.        Because sufficient suitable land for forest plantations was not
available in the Phuntsholing area for both BCCL and the Forestry Development
Project plantations, the project's operating area was changed to Samchi, some 50
km to the west.  Planting continued at Samchi using planting stock from the
Phuntsholing nursery.
6.        During 1985/86, additional nurseries were established in the Geylephug
area and about 700 ha of forest plantations were established in Geylephug,
Sarbhang, and Samchi.   By the end of 1986, most of the area suitable for
plantations at Samchi had been zeplanted, and the planting activity was moved to



iv
Geylephug. At mid-term, the project was slightly ahead of target with 1,600 ha
planted out of the project target of 2,800 ha.
7.        About this time (1987) the Second Forestry Project was being prepared,
and a number of start-up activities, including purchase of equipment urgently
needed for the integrated pest management program, were required. RGOB proposed
a reduction in forest clearing and afforestation in southern Bhutan, amendment
of the Development Credit Agreement of the p.oject by extending the project area
to cover areas served by the Second Forestry Project, and allocated part of
Credit 1460-BHU funds for preparatory works and equipment purchases needed for
start-up activities in the areas covered by the Second Forestry Development
Project (Cr. 1900-BHU).
8.        IDA accepted this proposal and the project scope and description of
Credit 1460-BHU were amended accordingly. Credit funds of US$2.5 million (SDP
1.923 million) were on-lent from RGOB to Bhutan Logging Corporation (BLC) und;r
a stubsidiary loan arrangement.
9.        In 1987/88 pro4ect works were concentrated in Geylephug/Sarbhang where
plantation establishment continued at the rate of 760 ha per year, gradually
decreasing in subsequent years to 560 ha in 1988/89 and 200 ha in 1989/90 as the
availability of suitable plantation sites declined and civil disturbances in this
part of Bhtutan increased. By 1990, the year scheduled for project completion,
the project's plantation targets had been exceeded, with a total of 2,900 ha of
forest plantations estabiished in the Geylephug/Sarbhang area. Planting in this
area ceased following the 1989/90 planting season.
10.       In 1988/89, a decision was made to relocate the project once again,
this time to the Wangdi area, where a combination of grazing and fires had
deforested large areas and caused shortages of timber and fuelvood. A nursery
was established in Wangdi and planting (100 ha) commenced in 1989. In 1990 an
additional 207 ha was planted. Unfortunately, the unseasonably dry conditions
during the 1990 planting season resulted in the failure of about 502 of the
planted areas.  Therefore, in 1991, no new plantations were established, and
plantation efforts were directed to replanting the failed plantation area. A
total of 80 ha was replanted.
11.       As per the original Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the Credit was
due to close on September 30, 1990. However IDA granted RGOB an extension of the
closing  date  to  September  30,  1991.    At  the  same  time  the  plantation
establishment target was raised from 2,800 ha to 3,400 ha. The road construction
target was also increased from 40 to 50 km. In 1991, RGOB sought IDA approval
for a second extension of the Credit closing date, from September 30, 1991 to
September 30, 1992, and also for a reallocation of funds from other project
activities to the Afforestation Component to permit further plantation
establishment.   Following IDA's approval, planting continued during 1992 and
totalled 200 ha. By the Credit closing date of September 30, 1992, a total of
507 ha of plantations had been established in the Wangdi area.



V
Results
12.       Between 1984 and 1992, a total of 3,636 ha were afforested under the
project.  In spite of unplanned changes in the project location, all of the
project's measurable physical targets were met or exceeded.   The project's
objectives of developing skills in logging and plantation development were also
met. Several of the personnel involved in the project have gone on to other IDA-
or bilateral-assisted forestry development projects. One indication that the
training objectives were met is the fact that the when the Technology Cooperation
Program (TCP) technical assistance1 under the project ended in 1987, successful
plantation establishment continued for another five years with about 2,000 ha
established between 1987 and 1992. The quality of plantations suffered, however,
due to poor maintenance of plantations in the 1989/92 period, when the area
became politically unsafe. Lack of maintenance and inappropriate species mix
contributed to pest attack and climber infestation in the plantations. Recently,
pest attack has subcided and climbers have now been controlled by weeding.
Sustainability
13.       The sustainability of the project's achievements is uncertain.  The
following problems require action:
(a)  Afforestation in the project area will very likely cease now that the
Credit has closed. This is due to a combination of civil disturbances
and RGOB's inability or unwillingness to sustain this activity without
external financing. During project implementation, concern over long-
term sustainability was aroused due to delays in payment of wages,
salaries and other local currency costs, to be financed by RGOB.
(b)  The key to long-term sustainability of the plantations - including
their continued p.atection and maintenance - is to establish a solid
commercial basis for their on-going management and to include local
people's participation, not only as laborers, but as beneficiaries of
the plantation's products and financial benefits.
(c)  Civil  disturbances  in  southern  Bhutan not  only  threatened the
existence of the plantations through arson but also frustrated
attempts to carry out required plantation inspection, maintenance and
protection.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
14.       The Borrower showed considerable ingenuity and commitment in executing
this project:
(a) Delays in project implementation were avoided through taking essential
equipment on hire, while awaiting purchase and shipment of p.oject
equipment. In future projects, provision should be made to utilize
1.   Provided by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations (FAO).



vi
credit funds for interim equipment rentals in the early stages of
project implementation.
(b) Factors beyond the project's control forced changes in project concept
and location. The success of the project in meeting its objeccives
is a credit to DOF, the project's implementing agency, which
demonstrated flexibility and managed to exceed project targets.
15.       Several additional components  could have enhanced the project's
sustainablity. These include:
(a) Plantation projects shoul.; have clearly defined end-use markets in
order to make rational decisions regarding technical parameters of
such projects, e.g., species selection, choice of felling regimes,
etc.
(b) Training related to commercialization of plantations should be
included in forest plantation projects. Such training would include
subjects as inventory, growth and yield prediction, harvest planning,
marketing and financial analysis.
(c)  Participation by local residents as partners in the plantations - not
merely as plantation laborers - would assist in ensuring the long-term
sustainability of afforestation investments.
16.       Shortcomings observed during implementation, which should be avoided
in preparing and implementing other projects, include:
(a) Unforseen problems with insects, disease and competing vegetation can
result in large expenditures on plantation maintenance. The Borrower
must be prepared to make funds available to cover these local currency
expenditures. Although the Credit covered plantation establishment,
there was no arraugement to use credit funds for replanting or extra-
ordinary maintenance in the event of a general plantation failure due
to uncontrollable factors such as pests, drought, and fire.
b)   Delays in submitting accounting and audit statements, although they
may be viewed as minor events by the Borrower, can result in the
Credit falling into non-compliance, suspension of disbursements and
possible curtailment .' activities due to lack of available funds.
c)   Insufficient allocation or late release of project funds - IDA credit
or Borrower's own funds, often result in suspension of activities and
may result in non-achievement of project goals.



PROJECT COMPLMTION REPORT
,SUTAN
FORSSTRY D ELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BlU)
PART It  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's ;. ~PHCTIVZ
1.    Project Identity
Project Name: Forestry Development Project
Credit Not    1460-BHU
RVP Units     Sozath Asia
Country:      Bhutan
Sector:       Agriculture
Subsector:    Forestry
2.    Background
2.1       Forestry Sector. Bhutan is abundantly endowed with forest resources,
with 57% of its land area under forest cover. Forestry plays an important role
in the economy, contributing a significant (11%) portion of GDP and provides raw
material to a large portion of the country's industrial units. Forestry taxes
and royalties account for 3% of Royal Government of Bhutan (RGOB) receipts.
Exports of forest products account for 20% of national exports. Fuelwood is the
main source of heating and cooking energy. Recent estimates of fuelwood usage
(2.4 million m3/annum) indicate it to be the largest use of Bhutan's forest
resource and is considerably greater than that of industrial wood usage (0.1-0.2
million m3/annum).
2.2       Forest Plantations. Prior to 1980 only small areas of plantations had
been established and these were in isolated patches throughout the country. In
1980, recognizing the need to re-establish exploited forests, the Department of
Forestry (DOF) began to develop proposals for systematic reforestation. Although
there have been instances of natural forests being harvested and replaced by
plantations, the primaty objective of Bhutan's forest plantation program is to
replace forests lost or degraded by disease, insects, uncontrolled exploitation
and unsustainable agricultural practices, in order to maintain the 60% protective
forest cover dictated by the National Forest Policy. By 1992, a total of 12,000
ha of plantations had been raised in the country.
2.3       Forest Degradation in Project Area.  A preinvestment survey of Bhutan
in the late 1970s recotaized the need for reforestation in the lower foothills
area bordering India. In this region, it wao estimated that over 1,000 km2 had



2
little or no forest cover. This lack of forest cover had caused erosion in the
foothills and contributed to flooding on the plains below. Fuelwood and timber
for the local population and industry in that area were in short supply.
a4.4      Policy Context and Project Linkages.  RGOB's concern over increasing
degradation of forest areas in the "outhern foothills and associated risks of
ecological damage to the relatively fragile Himalayan environment, coupled with
the need tc ensure long-term wood supply to existing and planned users in the
area, prompted the decisiotn to increase reforestation operations. However, a
constraint to further development of forest plantations was the shortage of
skilled  'rofessionals and labor.   As a result, RGOB sought support  for
develok 1,nt of the institutional capacity within DOF to undertake large-scale
reforestation programs.   As a first step, a small-scale pilot operation was
selected in order to develop suitable systems and procedures for road
construction, land clearing, nursery operations and establishment of plantations
of species suitable for fuelwood and timber. This operation was supported by
Credit 1460-BHU.   The United Nations Development Programme (UNZP) funded  a
parallel program of technical assistance consultancies coupled with overaeas
training of Bhutanese staff (Technical Assistance to Reforestation and Salvage
Logging, BHU/84/009).
2.5       IDA's Involvement in Bhutan's Forestry Sector.  In early 1982, IDA
began prepa&ing a Wood Industries Project in Bhutan. However, in early 1983,
RGOB's Planning Commission in its Country Economic Memorandum identified a
forestry plantation project for the denuded and degraded forests in the foothills
as a higher priority.  It was therefore decided to f.aer the Wood Industries
Project and to request IDA's assistance in funding forest plantations. A second
IDA operation commenced in 1987 when an insect infestation in western Bhutan
prompted the Second Forestry Development Project (Credit 1900-BHU), which
supported mechanized log salvage to control the insect outbreak. A portion of
Credit 1460-BHU ($2.5 million) was on-lent to the Bhutan Logging Corporation to
assist in the early stages of this operation until IDA funding under Credit 1900-
BHU could be put in place. In 1993, a Third Forestry Development Project will
commence to address social forestry and production issues in eastern Bhutan.
3.   Proiect Objectives
3.1       Wood Supply.  One objective was to promote forest renewal in support
of local wood-based industries. The project was to demonstrate land clearing and
forest plantation techniques for an expanded reforestation program to ensure a
long-term supply of wood to existing and planned users.
3.2       Environmental.    A  parallel  objective  was  to  address  emerging
environmental problems stemming from uncontrolled exploitation of natural forests
for fuelwood, timber and grazing - particularly in the settled, roaded areas in
southern Bhutan.
3.3       Institutional and Human Resources Development.  Other objectives were
to (a) improve the skills of DOF's staff in the fields of logging, road
construction, species selection, forest nursery operations and project
management; (b) reduce dependence on import of skilled personnel from neighboring



3
countries: and (c) reinforce DOF's authority over preaervation and exploitation
of natural forests, through establishment of plantations on hitherto "common
access" lands.
4.   Proiect Deacription
4.1       The project was implemented over an eight-year period, commencing in
September 1984 and ending in September 1992.  It included the following works
under six components:
(a)  clearfell and extract merchantable trees from 3,800 ha of degraded
forest in preparation for establishing plantations in the Phuntsholing
and Geylephug areas of southern Bhutan;
(b)  establish about 2,800 ha plantations on clearfelled land;
(c)  develop four forest nurseries to support the plantation program;
(d)  construct and maintain the necessary access roads;
(e)  build within DOF a trained cadre of staff experienced in nursery
operations, plantation establishment and maintenance, log extraction
and road construction; and
(f)  provide foreign training of staff and technical assistance for project
implementation.
S.   Proiect Costs and Financing Plan
5.1       Total project costs were estimated at US$6.8 million including US$5
million of foreign exchange. The IDA credit (US$S5.5 million) financed 80% of
project costs through annual budget subventions to DOF. RGO0 financed staff and
other local costs (US$0.9 million). UNDP financed 30 person-months of technical
assistance (US$0.3 million) and 30 person-months of foreign training (US$0.1
million).
6.   Project Design and Organization
6.1       Concept. The conceptual foundation of the project was clear, well
understood and conformed to RGOB's development strategy of ensuring environmental
stability and wood security for present and future domestic and industrial users.
6.2       Timing.    Project  timing was  appropriate  following  adoption  of
systematic reforestation in the Fifth Five-Year Plan; the World Bank Forestry
Sector Review in 1982; the 1983 Country Economic Memorandum, which identified the
need to address the problem of denuded and degraded forests in the southern
foothills; and the decision to defer the proposed Wood Industries Project.



4
6.3       Design.  With FAO's assistance, a reforestation project proposal for
the highly populated southern belt of Bhutan was completed by RGOB as the basis
of a request for financial assistance from IDA. The design was finalized with
input from IDA and summarized in a Project Brief dated June 1983. The project
design was relatively simple involving a total of six inter-related components
(para 4.1). The project was designed as a small-scale pilot operation to develop
suitable systems and procedures for road construction, land clearing, nursery
operations and plantation establishment which could be replicated in degraded
forest areas throughout southern Bhutan.
6.4       organization.  Overall responsibility for project implementation lay
with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Forests which includes DOF. The project
was directed from DOF headquarters in Thimphu by the Director of Forests and
Joint Director of Reforestation, assisted by an accountant and two clerks. Day-
to-day project field implementation was the responsibility of a Project Manager,
assisted by two District Forest Officers, one for road construction and log
extraction and one for nurseries, plantation establishment and maintenance.
Additional forest rangers and foresters initiated and supervised project field
activities. A project accountant was responsible for project accounts, local
purchases and financial reporting.
7.   Project Implementation
7.1       Credit effectiveness and project start-up. Following negotiations and
signing of the Development Credit Agreerment (DCA) in June 1984, the Credit became
effective on September 25, 1984. A supervision mission in November 1984 verified
that project implementation was well under way. Project staff were appointed in
a timely manner in accordance with the negotiated timetable. Roads were taken
up for construction using contracted equipment while awaiting equipment purchased
by the project. Building construction had also commenced. The only limiting
factor was labor availability which was overcome by contracting labor from India.
With the exception of accounting staff, project management were recruited from
within Bhutan. In subsequent years, project work proceeded on schedule, although
there were many changes in project sites and concepts due to external factors
beyond project's control. Details of the changes are included as Annex 2.
7.2       Project Sites, Concept and Schedule.  Project work began as scheduled
in 1984 with planting at Sarbhang and Phuntsholing. Originally, short-rotation
plantations were to be established on degraded forest sites at Phuntsholing to
supply fuelwood to local markets and charcoal to the Bhutan Calcium Carbide
Limited (BCCL) Project. However, this idea was abandoned when BCCL opted for its
own "captive" plantations. There was not enough suitable land for both BCCL and
IDA funded plantations in the Phuntsholing area. Therefore, the Phuntsholing
portion of the Forestry Development Project was moved to Samchi, 50 km to the
west.  Planting stock from the Phuntsholing nursery was used for the Samchi
plantations. With BCCL no longer in the market for charcoal from the project's
plantations, the short-rotation concept for charcoal production was replaced by
longer, sawlog rotations, which as intermediate products would also support local
requirement of fuelwood.



S
7.3       Planting continued at Samchi through 1986 when all of the suitable
land in that area had been planted. During the mid to late 1980'., the project
was exclusively concentrated in Sarbhang where large annual planting programs
were undertaken. In the late 1980s, civil disturbances in southern Bhutan made
it increasingly difficult to continue planting in the Sarbhang area. In 1989,
the planting focus shifted farther north to Wangdi Phodrung, which was unaffected
by the disturbances and where a combination of fire and overgrazing had
deforested large areas. Planting continued at Wangdi until Credit closing.
7.4       In summary, between 1984 and 1992, a total of 3,636 ha were af forested
under the project. The original Credit closing date was September 30, 1990;
however, this was extended twice and the project finally closed on September 30,
1992.   The extensions were sought because the Borrower wished to continue
afforestation in degraded forests outside the project area but which needed
urgeat attention. Implementation of the six project components was successful
with all project targets being met or exceeded. Plantation distribution, by
location and year is shown in Tables 1 and 2.
TABLE 1: Plantation Establishment by Geouraphic Area
Division                 Area Planted
(in ha)
Phuntsholing                 12
Samchi                      193
Geylephug                 2,517
Sarbhang                    407
Wangdi                      507
Total                     3,636
TABLE 2: Plantation Establishment by
Project Year   Planned Area  Actual Area   Comments
--(in ha)--------
1984/85              400             308   - original project
1985/86              600             695      period 9/84 - 9/90
1986/87              800             540
1987/88              500             761
1988/89              500             664
1989/90               0              468   - planned credit closing 09/90
1990/91               0                    - replanting of 80 ha
1991/92               0              200   - credit actually closed 09/92
Totals
Original DCA         2800                  - 9/84 - 9/90
Amended  DCA         3400           3636   - 9/84 - 9/92
7.5       Road Construction.  Originally, 40 km of road were to be constructed
tnder the project. However, in a 1991 amendment to the DCA, this target was
raised to 50 km.   At Credit closing a total of 48 km of road had been
constructed. Project roads facilitated provision of fuel to the log extraction



6
sites, and transport of plants, labor, tools ard materials to planting sites both
during plantation establishment and during subsequent plantation maintenance.
As the plantations mature, project roads will enable extraction of thinnings and
mature timber. Project roads also improved access to many rural villages and
between population centers in Bhutan.
7.6       Land Clearing and Timber Salvage  Originally, 3,800 ha of degraded
forest were to have been cleared during the project period. A 1987 amendment
reduced this to 2,800 ha and funds originally alloted to land clearing were
reallocated to BLC. The subsequent shift of project sites to Wangdi in 1989
eliminated the need for forest clearing, as Wangdi plantations were established
on grass and scrub areas.  During the eight-year life aof the project, 3,177 ha
of degraded forest were cleared. A total of 49,750 m of timber was recovered
and sold during the project period as shown in Table 3.
TABLE 3: Timber Salvaged and Sold from Forest Clearing Operations
(in m )
Year       Logs       Smallwood       Fuelwood        Total
1984/85      3,700         -              150            3,850
1985/86     12,500        600            1,650          14,750
1986/87     10,500      1,300              400          12,200
1987/88      8,400        900              900          10,200
1988/89      4,100        700            1,900           6,700
1989/90      1,000        250              800           2,050
Total       40,200      3,750            5,800          49,750
7.7       Timber Yields from Land Clearing.   Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
estimates for timber prices and yields from land clearing operations were
compared with actual experience during implementation. In the SAR, estimated
average net yield was 50 m8 per ha.  The actual yield was only 15.5 m8 per ha.
7.8       Revenue from Land Clearing.  Actual prices obtained for fuelwood and
logs were consistently higher than estimated in the SAR as shown in Table 4.
These higher prices offset the lower than expected timber yields, with the result
that revenue from the sale of products from forest clearing operations (Nu 24.5
million) fully offset clearing costs (Nu 21.6 million) for the 3,177 ha of land
cleared for plantations. Revenue from land clearing was remitted to the Ministry
of Finance after deducting the royalty payable to the Forest Department.
SAR estimated prices and prices obtained during project implementation are given
in Table 41.
Project Management provided the following price information based on sales
of timber from plantation land clearing: Average price of all timber salvaged
during the project (1985-90) was Nu 496/m3 The last sale of timber salavaged
was in 1989-90, when the average price received was Nu 2,146/Mi.



7
TABE 4: Estimated and Actual Timber Prices bY Product
(in Num )
Product                  Estimated       Implementation
(1984 SAR)     (1985-90 Sales)
Softwood Fuelwood            -                _
Hardwood Fuelwood           37.5             100 (est.)
Smallwood                   75.0             200 (est.)
Poles                      140.0              -
Sawlogs                    323.0             580
Peeler/Blocks              374.0
7.9       In summary, yields from land clearing were only about one-third of the
SAR estimates. However, actual prices obtained for logs and fuelwood were much
higher than the SAR estimates.
7.10      Forest Nurseries and Seedling Production.  The SAR called for four
nurserJes. However, three additional nurseries were required as the plantation
sites were more dispersed than originally planned. Nurseries were established
at Samchi, Phuntsholing, Sarbhang, Geylephug, Leopani, Aipoli and Wangdi,
providing a combined annual capacity of seven million seedlings for the project's
plantations.
7.11      Plantation Establishment.  A total area of 3,636 ha of plantations
were established between 1984 and 1992, exceeding the original target of 2,800
ha by 30 percent.   Planting generally concentrated on fast-growing species
planted at 2.5 m by 2.5 m spacing with 1,600 trees per ha.
7.12      In response to civil disturbances, a major shift in project location
took place in 1989 when the project moved from humid, lowland sites of Geylephug
and Sarbhang in southern Bhutan to the dryer, higher elevation sites in the
Wangdi area.   In the southern areas, clearing of degraded forest preceded
establishment of hardwood plantations. In Wangdi, no clearing was required prior
to planting softwood species on scrub and grasslands.
7.13      In the southern (humid) areas of Geylephug and Sarbhang, species
selection recognized two distinct site types. In river bottom areas Dalbergia
sisoo and Acacia catechu were planted and performed very well; on the plains and,
foothills, predominantly Gmelina, with some mixtures of Bombax, Terminalia,
Chukrassia, Hichelia, and Rubber were successfully planted. Lucaena did not
perform very well on any of the southern sites. In Wangdi's dry, Sonkos river
valley, Chit pine, Eucalyptus and Melia survived and grew well, while Cupressus,
and some broadleafed species such as Castanopsis and Oak, suffered high
mortality.
7.14      The initial plan was to have combination of short, medium and long
rotation plantations. However, with abandonment of the objective of providing
domestic fuelwood and charcoal to BCCL, the primary objective of the project
became that of replacing degraded forests with well stocked long rotation



8
plantation forests. Short and medium rotation plantation objectives were thus
replaced by long-rotation trees to produce sawlogs for local and export markets
with intermediate yields providing domestic fuelwood.
7.15      Discussions with the Sarbhang District Forest Officer and his staff
provided the following views on the possible rotation ages for some of the
species planted:   The faster growing species planted in the south (Bombax,
Gmelina, etc.) are expected to be harvested at 40 to SO years. In the case of
Dalbergia,  a rotation of 50 to 60 years is indicated.   Other species -
Terminalia, Michelia, Chukrassia - are expected to reach sawlog size at 70 to 80
years.  Chir Pine on dry sites at Wangdi is expected to produce logs at 50 to 60
years. These estimates could not be confirmed, as travel to the project sites
was impossible due to security risks.
7.16      Plantation Maintenance. The 3,000 ha of plantations established prior
to 1989 were maintained regularly until 1990.   However,  in recent years,
scheduled plantation maintenance could not be carried out in southern Bhutan due
to civil disturbances in this region.   Some maintenance was carried out in
1992/93 and funds have been alloted for 1993/94.
7.17      Present Status of Forest Plantations.   The IDA Project Completion
Mission intended to visit representative plantations. However, due to civil
disturbances in the project area, the mission was unable to visit the plantation
sites. At the mission's request, the District Forest Officer in charge of the
project prepared a status report on the forest plantations (Annex 3).
7.18      Pest Problems at Sarbhang.  During the 1989 supervision mission, it
was noted that Gmelina arborea plantations near Sarbhang had been attacked by a
defoliator. Approximately 20 to 30 percent of the plantation area was affected.
The attack was most severe where the plantation was monoculture of Gmelina.
Although the mission recommended that the plantations be harvested, since that
time there have been no new attacks by the defoliator and the affected trees have
fully recovered and recently have shown good growth. The majority of the
plantation areas in the foothills of Sarbhang and Geylephug are affected by a
creeper, Michenia scandence, which covers young plantations, inhibiting their
growth. Michenia's growth is very rapid in the warm, humid climate of southern
Bhutan and requires constant plantation weeding, up to four times per year in
younger plantations. once the plantations reach five years, they outgrow to a
certain extent the effects of the Michenia and the need for plantation
maintenance decreases. Plantation maintenance has fallen behind in recent years
due to security problems in the area.
7.19      Drought and Fire Risks at Wangdi.  In 1990, 207 ha of plantations were
established at Wangdi.   Unfortunately the planting season that year was
unseasonably dry, resulting in a high degree of plantation failure. Therefore,
in 1991, no new plantations were established, and plantation efforts were
directed to replanting of the failed plantation area. In 1992 new planting at
Wangdi was resumed with a total of 200 ha planted. Forest fires are a major
threat to forest plantations in the Wangdi area. Plantation maintenance work -
including replanting, fire lines and fencing - has not been affected by the
security problems experienced farther south at Sarbhang and Geylephug.



9
7.20      Technical  Assistance  and Foreign  Training.    Under the  Project
Financing Agreement, UNDP provided technical assistance and foreign training of
local staff. Short-term technical assistance consultancies, which took place
in the early years of the project (1985/86), are summarized in Table 5.
TABLE 5: Specialist Consultancies
(in person-months)
Field of Specialty                 Planned   Actual
Forest Management Planning              3          3
Roads and Logging                      12         15
Nurseries and Plantations               3          3
Silviculture                            3          3
Miscellaneous                           6          6
Total                                  27         30
7.21      Recommendations resulting from the Technical Assistance Component have
been summarized in a UNDP report entitled: Technical Assistance to Reforestation
and Salvage Logging in Bhutan - Project Findings & Recommendations. FAO, Rome,
1988, which is attached as Annex 1 of this PCR.
7.22      Foreign training consisted of courses and study tours of two to three
months' duration. Seven project officers took part in training. The type and
location of training is shown in Table 6.
TABLE 6: Foreign Training
Individuals Involved      Field of Training         Location
Dorji Wangohuk            Forest Roads              Austria
Sangay Tenzing            Forest Roads              Austria
B.R. Pradhan              Nursery Procedures        Philippines
M.R. Pradhan              Nursery Procedures        Philippines
T.P. Sharma               Forest Roads              Austria
Ugen La                   Forest Roads              Austria
Tara Giri                 Forest Plantations  India
7.23      Project Staffing and Employment. The Forestry Development Project had
a permanent staff of 30, of which the majority were stationed in Geylephug.
During the period 1984 through 1992, an average of 500 ha of plantations were
established per year. This provided an average of 700 person-years of employment
as shown in Table 7. The original project envisioned employment generation of
approximately 3,200 person-years. However, due to the extended period of the
project and the increase in planted area from 2,800 ha to 3,636 ha, total
employment provided was 4,900 person-years - 47% more than planned.



10
TABLE 7: Employment Provided by the Project
Work Item                Person-Years of         Person-Years of Work
Work Per Year          Project - 1984-92
Site Clearing/Preparation                                  1,200
Seed Collection/Nursery                                      600
Planting stock Transport                                     500
Plantation Establishment                                   1,400
Plantation Maintenance                                     1,200
Total                           700                   4,900
7.24      Forest Management and Timber Production Planning.  Since abandoning
the project's o.iginal objective of producing fuelwood supplies for BCCL, the
project's main focus was to convert degraded forest land to productive long-
rotation timber plantations. Although this was a commendable objective, little
attention was paid to the long-term commercial potential of these plantations.
The mission's discussions with project management and senior DOF staff did not
provide information on growth rates, cutting cycles, expected timber yields,
harvesting costs, or sales prices. Future plans for plantation expansion and
harvest or timber utilization were also not available. There are several reasons
for this: plantations are still very young; no growth measurements have been
taken; no information is available from similar plantations in Bhutan upon which
to base yield prediction; security problems exist in the plantation areas; and
project staff are responsible only for plantation establishment and maintenance
and are not trained in long-term commercial concepts, including marketing and
financial analysis.
7.25      This lack of long-term plan or purpose of the plantations established
under the project makes it difficult to forecast the project's financial
viability.  In order to make projections of future financial returns, it is
necessary to have statistics on timber growth rates, yields, cutting cycle3,
logging costs and timber sales prices. There is need for training the staff
responsible for the plantations in long-range planning related to future
plantation development and utilization.   In particular,  growth and yield
measurement, forest management planning, timber production planning, and
marketing need to be stressed.
7.26      Project Costs.  The estimnated project cost at appraisal was US$6.8
million. Actual cost is estimated to be US$6.3 million.  This estimate is based
on the assumption that the UNDP allotment of US$0.4 million and the ROOB-financed
portion of US$0.9 million were fully utilized.  As of credit closing, US$5
million, or approximately 90% of the IDA credit of US$ 5.5 million, had been
disbursed. This total cost of US$6.3 million was financed as follows: IDA -
US$5.0 million; UNDP - US$0.4 million and RGo8 - US$0.9 million.
7.27      IDA Disbursements.   The disbursements proceeded smoothly, though
consistently behind the SAR schedule. Occasionally there were backlogs due to
late filing of accounts and audit statements. At mid-term, US$2 million of the



11
Credit had been disbursed, compared to US$3 million estimated at appraisal. At
the planned Credit closing date of March 1990, US$4.2 million (76%) had been
disbursed. By the actual Credit closing date of September 1992, US$5million, or
90% of the total credit of US$5.5 million, had been disbursed.
7.28      UNDP/FAO Financing. According to the UNDP/FAO report (Annex 1), the
technical assistance and training portions of the project were implemented as
planned which would have fully utilized the US$0.4 million financing.
7.29      Credit Allocation.  Credit allocation was revised in 1987 when forest
clearing supported by the Project in southern Bhutan was reduced from 3,800 ha
to 2,800 ha. Part of the funds allocated for this work were reallocated for
preparatory works and equipment purchases for start-up activities in areas
covered by the Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1900-BHU). Implemented by BLC, this
project was designed to undertake salvaged logging and other measures to control
insect infested forests in western Bhutan. IDA approved changes to the project
scope and the Credit allocations under Credit 1460-BHU were amended accordingly
in amendments dated October 1987 and May 1988. The funds, US$2.5 million, (SDR
1.923 million) were on-lent from RGOB to BLC under a subsidiary loan agreement.
7.30      as per the original DCA, the Credit was due to close March 25, 1990.
However in l990, IDA granted RGOB an extension of the Credit closing date to
September 30, 1991. In 1991, RGOB sought IDA approval for a second extension of
the Credit closing date, from September 30, 1991 to September 30, 1992, and also
for reallocation of funds from other project activities to afforestation to
permit further plantation establishment. IDA approved, and the DCA was amended
accordingly in August 1991. Targets for plantations were raised from 2,800 ha
to 3,400 ha, and for roads, from 40 to 50 km.
7.31      Allocation of Credit Funds by Project Component.   Since not all of
the Credit was disbursed, it is difficult to make comparisons of original credit
allocations and amount actually disbursed. However, by comparing percentage of
the original Credit allocated to each component with the percentage of funds
actually disbursed for those components, a general impression can be obtained.
The portion of the Credit disbursed for plantations and the portion of the Credit
allocated for that component in the SAR are compared in Table 8. The portion of
disbursements for equipment, vehicles and clearing/salvage logging were
approximately double the SAR allocation. The disbursement for roads was much
less than SAR allocation.
Table 8: Credit Allocation and Disbursal By Proiect Component
Project Component         Percent of SAR            Percent of Actual
Credit Allocation         Credit Disbursement
Equipment, Vehicles              19                         39
Roads                            42                          9
Clearing                         17                         29
Plantations                      22                         23
Total                            100                        100



12
7.32      Compliance with Legal Covenants.  Generally, the DCA covenants were
complied with. There were, however, delays in providing budgetary funds. This
negatively affected ongoing plantation maintenance. Accounting and audit reports
were often submitted late. On several occasions this resulted in IDA threatening
to suspend the use of the Special Account.
7.33      Project Risks.  Project risks were accurately identified at appraisal
and the relatively modest plantation targets set for the early years of the
project allowed for a gradual build-up of project operations over time. This
permitted DOF to gain experience and ensured that project implementation did not
fall behind. Technical risks were minimized by selecting well-known species with
proven success. As, however, some species such as Gmelina showed better growth,
a mistake was made in some areas by limiting planting to Gmelina crops. This
attracted pests and resulted in larger damage than would have happened in a mixed
species plantation. Availability of labor was ensured through arrangements to
import contract labor from neighboring countries as required. The one risk which
was not identified at appraisal was the security problem in southern Bhutan.
Plantation maintenance could not be undertaken as scheduled and plantations were
at risk due to arson related to civil unrest. This eventually resulted in the
relocation of the project.
8.   Proiect Results.
8.1       Project Objectives.  Overall, the project was successful in meeting
its primary objective of promoting forest renewal and environmental stabilization
through demonstration and training in forest plantation techniques.   The
plantation in due course will increase timber supply and domestic fuelwood. About
3,200 ha of degraded forest land were cleared, generating about 50,000 m3 of
fuelwood and logs; 48 km of forest access roads were constructed} and 3,636 ha
of forest plantations were established.
8.2       Economic Re-evaluation.   Updating SAR estimates of the project's
economic performance was difficult due to an absence of data on growth and yield,
harvesting costs and prices for plantation production - all of which are required
to forecast future financial performance of the plantations.
8.3       On average, only 15.5 m3/ha of logs and fuelwood were recovered from
land clearing operations compared to SAR estimates of 50 m3/ha. This was offset
by higher than estimated sales prices for these products. Land clearing costs
of 21.6 million Nu were fully recovered through sale of logs and fuelwood which
resulted in a gross sales revenue of 24.5 million Nu.
8.4       SAR estimates of plantation yields could not be confirmed by the
mission's observations since the mission, due to civil disturbance in the project
area, could not visit the plantation sites as data on plantation growth and yield
were neither available for the project, nor for other forest plantations in
Bhutan. Discussions with project management and experience in other regions with
similar conditions indicate that SAR estimates of growth rates and the consequent
harvest timing and yield may be overly optimistic.



13
8.5       However, a recent consultant report' indicates that the SAR estimates
of net prices for plantation production are generally lower than current prices,
which tends to depress the SAR estimates of the project's economic performance.
8.6       Revised  growth  and  yield  estimates,  extended  cutting  cycle
assumptions, and updated forest products values were used in this PCR to re-
evaluate the economic benefits of the project.  :pecifically, SAR estimates were
modified for the re-evaluation, as follows:
(a) Originally, three thinnings operations were planned - at 10, 14 and
18 years, with a final felling at 30 years.   This was revised to two
thinnings - at 15 and 30 years - with final felling at 50 years.
(b) SAR yield estimate of 16.7 m3/ha/annum was reduced to 8 m3/ha/annum.
This is reflected in the delayed timing of the first and second
thinnings; elimination of the third thinning; and delayed final
felling.
(c) SAR yield estimates for first and second thinning and for final
felling were used for the re-evaluation. Total yield over 50 years
is 400 m3/ha, versus the SAR estimate of 500 m3/ha over 30 years.
(d) In the SAR, net prices for the three main product groups were as
follows: logs 350 NuIm3, smallwood/poles 75 Nu/m3, and fuelwood 37.5
Nu/m3. In order to reflect current price levels for these products,
the re-evaluations undertaken for the PCR assumed the following net
prices: logs 750 Nu/m3; smallwood/poles 500 Nu/m3; fuelwood 100 Nu/m3.
8.7       The net effect of reduced growth rates, delayed thinnings, extended
rotation age and increased product prices is a reduction in the Internal Rate of
Return (IRR), estimated in the SAR, from 12% to 8*. Likewise, the economic rate
of return (ERR), estimated in the SAR at 13%, is reduced to 9%. Assumptions upon
which recalculated rates of return are based are included in Part III.
8.8       Project Benefits. While the calculated economic benefits did not meet
SAR expectations, there are a number of non-quantifiable project benefits:
(a) Improved access in the project areas due to roads constructed by the
project benefit DOF as the resource management agency, as well    as
rural settlements in the plantation areas.
(b) The presence of the plantations deters unapproved colonization and use
of DOF land. The plantations will reduce erosion and improve seasonal
distribution of water supplies in the catchments planted.
(c) Additional supplies of fuelwood and poles from the plantations reduce
pressure on the remaining natural forest.
Report of the consultant on Wood Products Marketing and Prices in Bhutan
(TCP/BHU/2251). Robert B. Forster, Monotick, Ontario, Canada.



14
(d) Significant employment benefits will continue to accrue in the form
of plantation maintenance, thinning, harvesting, etc.
8.9       Project Impacts.
(a) Institutional Strengthening. The project resulted in strengthening
DOF's capability to plan and execute forest plantation p r o j e c t s.
However, as previously mentioned, further training in growth and yield
surveys, as well as planning and management of forest plantations on
a commercial basis, are required.
(b) Human Resources Development. As a result of technical assistance and
training received on the project, a number of professionals engaged
on the project have been promoted to senior positions in Bhutan's
forestry agencies. Many of the staff trained in harvesting and
plantation activities are now successfully workinig in other parts of
the country in similar operations.
(c) Environmental Impact. The forest plantations contributed to reducing
deforestation in the project areas and thus had a positive impact on
microclimate and general environmental stability of the project area.
9.   Proiect Sustainability.
9.1       Project sustainability is uncertain. Indications are that no further
plantations will be established in the project area. This is, in part, due to
civil disturbances. However, it may also be an indication of RGOB's inability
or unwillingness to continue afforestation without resorting to external
financing. On several occasions during the project, work was delayed due to
RGOB's budget constraints which resulted in the late payment of wages, salaries
and other local currency operating costs, which were to have been financed by
RGOB.
9.2       Although the plantations provided many intangible services, these
alone will not ensure sustainablity of the plantations funded by this Credit.
To ensure long-term sustainability, it will be necessary to establish a solid
commercial basis for the plantations and to ensure their ongoing protection and
maintenance. Initial steps to bring this about includes systematic measurement
of plantations to establish the basis for growth and yield prediction, and a
study of wood pricing, supply and demand in the area.
9.3       Comprehensive plans for plantation management including thinning and
harvesting regimes, allowable annual cuts (AAC) and rotation ages should be
prepared based on estimates of growth, yield and riarket projections.
9.4       In addition to the financial and technical limitations mentioned
above, civil disturbances in southern Bhutan threatened not only the existenco
of the plantations established by the project, but also frustrated attempts to
carry out plantation maintenance and other aspects of plantation management. One
possibility of ensuring the sustainable plantation management is to include local



15
people's participation in plantation projects, not only as laborers but also as
beneficLaries of the plantation's products and financial benefits. This would
require changes in forestry rules and regulations, now under preparation in the
Ministry of Agriculture.
10. IDA Performance
10.1      Activitles funded by the IDA credit have made a positive contribution
to sector development through physical works and institutional and human
resources development.   Seventy staffweeks were spent on preparation and
appraisal of the project. This provided a suitable framework and guidelines for
project implementation.   A further 60 staffweeks of supervisLon and other
operational inputs were provided with a relatively high degree of staff
continuity. Approximately six staffweeks were devoted to preparing the Project
Completion Report, bringing total IDA input to 136 staffweeks. In retrospect,
the main lessons learned from project experience include:
(a) To avoid unnecessary delays in project implementation, arrangements
should be made to utilize Credit funds for short-term contract hire
of essential equipment, while awaiting purchase and shipment of
project equipment.
(b) Aspects related to commercialization of plantations and local
participation should be included in forest plantation projects.
(c) Plantation projects should have clearly defined end-use markets upon
which to base decisions regarding inter alia species selection,
harvesting regimes, plantation spacing, and stand treatments.
(d) Monoculture in plantations should be avoided at all times.
(e) Provisions for growth and survival monitoring as a part of regular
monitoring and evalution should be included in the project.
11. Borrower Performance
11.1      The Borrower's performance in carrying out its obligations was
generally satisfactory. DOF demonstrated its capacity to undertake large-scale
plantation projects under difficult circumstances. In particular, the Borrower
reacted positively to adverse factors which threatened the project's ability to
achieve its objectives. Although project sites were moved several times, due to
factors beyond DOF's control, the implementing agency showed a good deal of
flexibility and managed to exceed project targets. The following shortcomings
to be avoided in preparing and implementing other projects were observed during
implementation:
(a) Delays in submitting accounting and audit statements, although they
may be viewed as minor events by the Borrower, can result in the
Credit falling into non-compliance, suspension of disbursements and
possibly curtailment of activities due to lack of available funds.
Insufficient allocation of counterpart funding or late release of
funds which hinder plantation maintenance and other activities thus
adversely affecting the project.
(b) Unforseen problems with insects, disease, competing vegetation and
drought resulted in large plantation maintenance costs. The Borrower



16
had difficulty in funding these local currency expenditures.  IDA did
not permit the use of the Credit for replanting of failed plantations,
even though they failed due to uncontrollable factors. One solution
to this problem is to fund this work using sales revenues of products
salvaged from land clearing. However, these funds were not available
for use on the project as they were turned over to General Revenues.
12. Project Relationship
1  I      IDA's relationship with UNDP/FAO,  and with RGOB's administrative
agencies was generally good and provided the basis for cooperation on subsequent
projects.
13. Consultancy Services. Consultancy services were provided by UNDP/FAO, which
funded 30 person-months of technical assistance consultancies and 30 person-
months of foreign training of Bhutanese project staff. Consultants were engaged
under the FAO's Technical Cooperation Program (TCP) program in the fields of
project planning/procurement, plantation planning, development and management,
roads and logging, silvicultural research.
14. Project Documentation and Data
14.1      The DCA and subsequent amendments were appropriate for achieving
project objectives. The SAR provided an adequate framework and guidelines for
project implementation. With the exception of growth and yield data, updated
costs, and prices for plantation production, most data required for the PCR, were
readily available to the mission.



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BflU)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S tRGOB) PERSPECTIVE
This Part
To be C2omleted by a Senior RGOB Official
With Detailed K_owledste of the Proiect



18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BHUTAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BHU)
PART IIIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Operations
Credit Title          PurDose                  Date          Status
Second Forestry       Support to Bhutan        1987        Ongoing
Development Project  Logging Corporation in                Project Ends
Cr. 1900-BHU          planning and execution               12/93
of salvage logging
program to recover
insect damaged timber
and improve forest
management for
sustained production
of timber products and
en-vironmental services
of Bhutan's Forest
Resources.
Conservation Trust   World Bank through         1992       Ongoing
Fund                  Global Environment
Facility (GEF)
Supports Biodiversiy
Conservation in
Bhutan.
Third Forestry        Support for an            1993       Under
Development Project  integrated program of   planned       Negotiation
improved utilization,
protection and
multiple use
management of Bhutan's
forest resources.



19
2.    Proiect Timetable
Item                        Date Planned           Actual Date
Identification                       -                 August 1982
Preparation                         1982               October 1982
Appraisal                        February 1983         October 1983
Negotiations                     February 1984         February 1984
Board Approval                   March 1984            April 17, 1984
Credit Signature                 June 1984             June 25, 1984
Credit Effectiveness             August 1984           Sept. 27, 1984
Project Completion               March 31, 1990        Sept. 30, 1992
Credit Closing                   Sept. 30, 1990        Sept. 30, 1992
3.    Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal  84/85  85/86  86/87  87188  88/89  89/90  90/91  91)92  92193
Year
Appraisal    1.0    2.3    3.1    5.0    5.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Estimate
Actual       0.05   0.57   1.87   2.47   3.54   4.26   4.60   4.77    5.0
Actual
X of         5      25      60     50      71     77      84     87      90
Estimate



20
4.    Proiect Imlementation
Key Tndicators - Phtsical Program
Program                     Unit              SA Target   Actual Achieved
Nurseries                   Number                 4                7
Seedlings         S million         7 million
Roads                       Kilometers            40               48
Salvage Logging             Hectare              3,800           3,177
Cubic Meter        190,000           49,460
Plantations                 Hectare              2,800           3,636
Technical Assistance        Person-Month          27               30
Training                    Person-Month          30               30
5.    Proiect Financing and Costs
A. Proiect Financing
Planned (SAR Estimate)         Actual (PCR Estimate)
(US5$ million)                 (17S$ million)
Source      Local    Foreian    Total      Local    Foreign    Total
ID'A         0.9       4.6        5.5        ---       ---        5.0
RGOB         0.9       0.0        0.9        ---       ---        0.9
UNDP         0.0       0.4        0.4        ---       ---        0.4
Total       18.0       5.0        6.8        ---       ---        6.3



21
B. Project Costs
AMpraisal Estimate        *Actual (PCR Estimate)
(US$ thousand)              (US$ thousand)
Component               Local   ForeiMn    Total    Local  Foreign    Total
Nursery                    75.8    157.7    233.5       ---           ---
Plantation                367.4    399.3     766.7      ---      ---   1297.0
Road                      100.5   1024.4    1124.9      ---      ---    509.0
Salvage Logging          507.3   1633.9   2141.2        ---      ---   1613.0
Equip.,Vehic,Works        402.1    496.6    898.7       ---      ---   2215.0
Tech. Assistancel         29.7    267.3      297.0      ---      ---    297.0
Foreign Training1            0    102.0    102.0        ---      ---    102.0
Total Baseline Costs     1482.8   4081.3    6464.1      ---      ---   6033.0
-Physical Contingency     24.2    248.1    272.3        ---      ---       ---
-Price Contingency       290.9    715.6   1006.5
Total Project Costs      1797.9   5045.0    7742.8               ---       ---
*  Figures aro rounded to tIousands. They are =p,o.mate* baced ol SOR:US Dollar exchange rate (1:1.8761) of March 2. 1W8.
6.   Proiect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Item               SAR Estimate            PCR Estimate
Eimployment              3,200 person-years      4,900 person-years
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._. ..................... .............. .   .... .... "_. . ...._ ..........
Salvaxe Lotging          Volume     Net Rev.      Volume     Net Rev
m3        (Nulm3)        (m3i      (Nufm3)
~~~~~~.. ...... _.................. """......... . _. ................. ................__ .. ......... _. ..
Saw & Veneer Logs        99,000        350        40,069        580
Smallwood                35,000        75          3,625       200
Fuelvood                 60,000        40          5,765        100
Total - Wood Products    194,000       205        49,456        496
50 m3/ha                15.5 m3/ha
1 Technical assistance and foreign training were funded by UNDP/FAO. These
components were completed in 1987.  No data regarding their actual cost was
available to the PCR mission. In the final UNDP/FAO report (Annex 1) it is stated
that these components were completed as ?lanned.  In the absence of cost data,
it is assumed that funds allocated for thRR rnmnnnPntf weare Ad4sh,a, Q 
in the SAR.



22
B. Financial and Economic Imtact
Rate of Return                       Appraisal Estimate        PCR Estimate
Internal Rate of Return (IRR)                 12 Z                 8 Z
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                 13 Z                 9 X
Extended Land Clearing (ERR)                  17 2               N.A.2
C. Technical Assistance
Specialist Consultancies
(person-months)
Field of Specialtv                 Planned   Actual
Forest Management Planning              3          3
Roads and Logging                      12         15
Nurseries and Plantations               3          3
Silviculture                            3          3
Miscellaneous                           6          6
Total                             27         30
D.   Study Tours and TraininA
Foreisn Training of Bhutanese Staff
(30 person-months in total)
Persons Involved               Field of Training        Location
Dorji Wangchuk                 Forest Roads             Austria
Sangay Tenzing                 Forest Roads             Austria
B.K. Pradhan                   Nursery Procedures       Philippines
M.R. Pradhan                   Nursery Procedures       Philippines
T.P. Sharma                    Forest Roads             Austria
Ugen La                        Forest Roads             Austria
Tara Giri                      Forest Plantations       India
2 The SAR analyses included an alternative case in which clearing and
replanting was continued for an additional five years - until the short-rotation
species matured; this resulted in an improved ERR of 17X. Since short-rotation
plantations are no longer being considered and planting has been discontinued,
this option was not re-evaluated in the PCR.



23
7.    Status of Covenants
Covenant               Subiect           Status           Comments
3.06          Borrower to take             OK     DOF avoided displacing
necessary measures to               farmers.  Fences were
minimize displacing                built to keep cattle
farmers in planting                out of plantations.
areas.
4.01 (a),     Borrower to maintain         OK     DOF kept separate
4.01 (b)(i)   separate project                    accounts for IDA Credit
accounts                           Cr.1460-BHU
4.01 (b)(ii)  Borrower to retain all       OK    Ministry of Finance
records for one year               maintaining project
after closing                      accounting records.
4.01 (c)      Audited accounts to be       OK    Accounts provided but
sent to IDA not later              generally past due date
than six months after
FY end.
Notes OK - covenant complied with.
8.    Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(staffweeks)
Yew      FY84  FY85  FY88  FY87  FY88     FY90  FY91    FY9  3   TOTAL
TIk
LENP      2615   3.4        -                                      29.6
LENA      13.5  26.5    -    *                                     400
LENN            2.3   2.3 .                                         2.3
LOP       0.6  21    -            -    .       -        --         2.7
SPN             2.3  6.6  8.7  11.9  6.2  4.b  10.6  1.3  1.0    53.1
PCR                                  -       -   0.6    -   6.0     6.6
PAD             0.3                                                 0.3
TOTAL     40.3  36.9  6.6  8.7  11.   6.2  4.5  112   1.3  7.0   134.6



24
B. Missions
Stan ofPrlctCMl                    pays I      jg!' erom Prdblem
Missbn  of Staff  FieWd
Prepaan             10182    A omnbi  total of 70 staffwe wer spent
Appras              Io0a    on Prepaao and Apprsa o tih Project
upeison 1           1114      2      20      P0. F      t      F.PM (1)
Supevtion 2         04185     1       8       AG        2      F,PM (2)
SUPerion 3          10186     2      1 1     PO, F      I      F,PM (1)
Supervluon4         05(86     2       8      PO,F       1       F (1)
Supervision         0 m7      2       9      PO. F      2        F (2)
Supers 6            06e8      1      14       PO        2       PM (2)
Supevsion 7         07189     1      6         F        2      C,PM (2)
Supervsion8         189       I      11        F        2      C.PM(2)
Suevison            06a91     1      14        F        2       C (2)
PCR MisIon          12192     1      6         F        I        NA.
9.    Exchante Rates
Project Year          Conversion Rate      Conversion Rate US$SSDR
N _US$
1984185                  10.0                     1.02
1985/86                  12.0                     1.06
1986/87                  12.6                     1.18
1987188                  13.0                     1.30
1988/89                  13.0                     1.25
1989/90                  16.7                     1.32
1990/91                  18.3                     1.42
1991/92                  25.8                     1.38
1992/93                  29.9                     1.34
S F=Forester; E=Economist; PO-Project Officer; P=Procurement
Specialist; O-Organization and Management; Ag=Agriculturist
4 1=Problem Free or Minor Problems; 2-Moderate Problems;
3=Major Problems
S C=Compliance with Leeal Covenants: F=Financial: PM-Proiect
Management; P=Project Development Objectives.   Numbers in Parenthesis refer to
Performance Rating Status



25
10.   Wood Product Yields and Prices from Land Clearing
Item                SAR - Estimate            PCR - Actual
Salvage Lotaing          Volume         Price        Volume       Price
m /Ha          Nu-i-8u/m-- m/ Ha        Nu/nm'
Saw & Veneer Logs            25           500           12.6          580
Smallwood                     9           150           1.1           200
Fuelwood                     16           100           1.8           100
Total/Wt.Average             50           325           15.5          495
11.   Cost and Revenues of Land Clearinx Operation
Volume and Area Salvaged:        49,460 m8 from 3,177 ha.  (15.5 m3/Ha)
Cost of Salvage and Marketing:        21.6 million Nu             (440 NuIm3)
Revenue from Salvage Operation:        24.5 million Nu             (496 Nu/rm)
12.    Plantation Yield Estimates
-2-Peration          First       Second       Third      Final      Total
Thinnin,    Thinning    Thinning   Fellina    Cycle
Harvest Aae (yrs)
SAR Estimate        10          15           20         25          25
PCR Estimate        15          30           none       50          50
Yield (m3lha)
SAR Estimate
Fuelvood           30          30           20         20         100
Smallwood          30          30           30         50         140
Loas               a           10           50         200        260
TOTAL              60          70           100        270        500
PCR Estimate
Fuelvood           30          30           0          20         80
Smallvood          30          30           0          50         110
LoRs               0           10           0          200        210
TOTAL              60          70           0          270        400



BHUTAN
Forestry bevelopm.tsh Project
Financtil AnaIysis of Cash Flows
I total l 
Project Year       .        >           1985       1986       1987      1988       1989       1990      1991        1992 1 1984-92 I I  Total  I
.............   ........... ............................................ ................. --.-.- ---....... -       --, ----  -- ---? 
Planterton - Ha                                          PlantCtioIh Fstabltsbment Pertod                                            1 11992-242
................                                                              ..                                        I           II            I
*Etabliehmeat                             308       695        606        761       664          0       402         200 t    3636 16        3636 1
Thinning                                    0          0         0          0         0          0          0          0          Oll       7272 1
Final Felltng                               0         0          0          0         0          0          0          0          Oll       3636 1
I~~~~~~~
Producc Ytildc - N3                                      Salvage Lo"gtni   - Actual Timber Yields                         I          ll            I
*  .,  .... .... , ,                                        _ ..........................
Los                                     3713      12455    10478        8379       4075        969          0          0 l   40069 ll  763560 l '
:Sillwod/pol.a                              0       564       1264        861       689        247          0          0 1    3625 ll  399960                        F
F4a1velo4                                 137      140         424        *75      1925        764          0          01      5765 11  290O  1I
: .             .                   ...............................................................  ,. . I... .  to . ...I
Total Volume                             3850     14659      12166     lOl3        6689       1980          0          0 1   49459 It 1454400 1
*                                                                                         I           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  I
Actual Revenue from Lend Cleari:ag - million Nu                                                                           I           ll           I
........................................... .....
Loge       0 e          580 /3                                                                                            1    23.2  ll
siad/polese@            200 1.3                                                                                           1     0.7 Il
fuelwood  @             100 /m3                                                                                           1     0.6 8              I                 0
Cross Revenue         496.2 /m3           1.9        7.3       6.0        5.0        3.3       1.0        0.0        0.0 I    24.S If              I
SALES  .-**---- OPEATNC   COSTS ...................I   NET    ll                       I                          N
Estimated  NETr  Plantation Revenue - million Nu    PRICES T7. Road  Tranap.  ProfIt   Admin.    Royalty  IREVUNUE  If                             I
Logo       Q            750 /*3   (See Cost/Price             2000        300        250       200        300        200 9       7509 l    572.7 l                   O
saud/poles Q            500 /03      Breaidown                1500        300        200       150        250        to0 I       500 1i    200.0 1
fuelvood  @             100 /m3         Tabte) .        >      400        115        130        20         20         iS I       100o  l     29.1 1                   .
..........   .......                                     ...... ..... ..... ...,,,,,,,.,,,,,,.,,.......................... I...... it- ---- ..........Io
Vt.Avg.Net RMm.         551 /03                                                Welihted Average  Het Revenue                     $ ...>6  55  ll   801.7 I
............. ...... ....                                                  ,I---- -I------ *It....I
check --- >l    24.S ll            I
Eatabllshusnt Costa   M illton Nu                                                                              Rec..I->t   496.2 1l                I
..................................                                                                                        I...       .             I
Roads                  2305 /ha           0.2        0.0       0.0        1.2        4.2       0.7        2.1        10.0o1      .4 1l            I
Clearing/Logging    5928 lbs              1.8        4.1        3.6       5.2        5.2        1.7       0.0        0.0 1    21.6 ll              I
Mureery/Planting       4746 /ba           0.7        2.3        3.0       4.4        3.8        1.5       1.5        0.0 1    17.3 11              I
Vehicles Equip.        3338 /he           0.9        1.2        5.0       4.4        0.3       0.1        0.2        0.0 1    12.1 to              I
............. .........             .................................................................................                II            I
Total Costa           16317 /ha           3.6        7.6       11.6      15.3       13.5       4.0        3.7        0O.0 a     59.3 *l            I
...... .........  ......   ......... . . ..,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,.. ........................................................................ ......... ,  ---------I
Plantation Maintenance Costa . *Iultion Nu.                                                                                           It    10.0 I
......... ....... _......... ...... ..........                                                                                         I------ I. .
I-------I
Revene-Cost - Killion Nu.                 .1.7      -0.3       -5.6    -t0.3       -10.2      -3.0       -3.7       10.0              I :i:  - a  l
. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ... .. .. .. .. .. . ... .. .. . .. .,,.,,,, .,. .. .. .. . .. . . . . . .. , . . ._ . . .. . .:..........          1..........
TDtals by project ftsets                               Net Cash flow . Retablite_b t Period  - - - - - -.             - 34.8
Net Ceeb Plow - final Felli-ng         -      -        - - >   642.0
Revenue Costs - - - - - - - - - - - - -                        757.0
Net Cash Flow . icolect - -  -    * - - -             - - - -  75-.0



Forestry Devolopmoat Projeet
Ecomidc nalysto of Cash nfows
I  Total   I
Project Year               . >                1965        1986        1987        1988       1969         1990        1991       1992  t 1984-92 It  Total
.......    ..............................................                             .        .        .         .        .        ... 4 of......
Plantation    Ha                                                Plantation Lstabliobmnt  Pertiod                                        t            1119922042
........ .........                                              .......,,,,,.......,,,........... ....,..                            I            of
gKtablisbmant                                  308         695         606         761         664           0        402         200 4       3636 11        3636                          m
ThitIn.n                                          0           0          0           0           0           0           0           01           0to        7272
Final Felinas                                     0           0          0           0           0           0           0           O            O to       3636
.                                                                                        ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I to
Product yteld. - U3                                             Salv o  Lagging - Actual Uimbr n 1.16.                           11It
........... .                                             ..........   ..... .......                                                           ItI
Logp                                          3713      12455       10478        8mS         4075         969            0           0    40069  I    763S60
Sallwood/poleo                                    0        564       1264          661         689        247            0           0°       3625  tJ   39"960
Fuelvood                                       137        1640         424        675        1925         764            0          0 I       3765  I1   200 ffO
.............                           ........ ............................................................ .... I,............................... .. ,,,1,,-,,,,I1
Total Volume                                  38SO      14659       12166       10115        6689        19S0            0           0      4945w9  It  1454400
.,.... . .._                            ................ . .. .,.,._..................... ,.................                                      ........., I,4,,,l
I         Si 
Actual Revenue from Land Cloaritg -  iltion Nu *                                                                                                     I
,,,,,,,,,,,...,............................................................ ..., ,,. ..........tI
Lose        e              609 /=3    *Note: Prices were incroased                      *Mote: Financtal Prtca/Cost                    1      24.4  It
md/pola e                  210 /m3    by 5 8  to royaltieo  gold by                     were multiplied by 0.8 £conomc                         0. 4f                                       0
fuelwood  @                105 /43    Project to RCOB gen. revenu.                      Price Factor (erF) (Bhutan/Indla)              1       0.6 eI
...... ........., ......... . . ......... .................. ........... .......................,....,,,,......... ,,,,.,I................. ,,...  ft
Gross Revenu               521 /63             2.0         7.6         6.3         5.3        3.5         1.0         0.0         0.0 1       25.6  of
SAL3S        . .-..-OPURPAINC  COSTS* .....--.--.--.-.-I   Us                    It T O
Estimated *NE* Plantatton Rveveue - mIlion Nu                      PRtCU  To goad  tta..   Proftt** Adamn.    RoyastyA*12VW3W                      Of
............................................. ..                   ...... ........  ................ , ,.,....             .,.,,., .......    ....... ..   II 
Logs        e              920 J03       *->(So  Cost/Pitco          1600         240         200           0         240           0 1       920 It    702.5
s_nd/pole. Q               600 h3             Detail.  tn            1200         240         160           0         200           0 1        600 1t    240.0
fulwood  *                   O8 /.3          Tabl)  ----->            120          91         104           0          16           0 1       101 1t        31.4
Ut.a,5..t "vR .            670 /m3                                                     Usightd Ave.rge    Net Reveue  .--->1                   670 i1   973.9
,, ............ .....,. ............... ...........  . .........................,.................. ,...................,.... ----- ,,. ...,,,,...... 1.,,I
I                        note:o**   ote  afit d Royalty were excluded from                        I t
Establtsbunt Costsa  Million Hu                   I                         re-evalustiom of projoet econoiec returns                               I I
.,_...._................ ...... ...........  ,   , .............. ......... .................. ....,,,,,,, ........................II
goads                     2305 /ha             0.2         0.0         0.0         1.2        4.2         0.7         2.1        0.0 t         0.4 11
Clearlogging              5928 /be             t.8         4.1         3.6         5.2        5.2         1.7        0.0         0.0 1       21.6 1I
Mursry/plmnting           4746 /ha             0.7         2.3         3.0        4.4         3.8         1.5         .5        0.0 1       17.3  II
Vebies   WqVt.            3118 /ha             0.9         1.2         5.0        4.4         0.3         0.1        0.2         0.0 1       12.1 tI
.............    .........              ...................................... .,   ,.......
Total costs              16317 /ha             3.6         7.6       11.6        15.3        13.5         4.0         3.7        0.0 a       59.3 * I
.............    .........              ................ ......... ....              .............. .... .......,....,,,,,......,,,. ..... ,,, I,.........   .................
Plantation Mtaintenance Costs - Miltion   u.                                                                                                       I I       0.0
.................   -J.......................                                                                                                       ....
*1. ....
Revenue.Cost - million Nu.                    .1.6         0.0       -.3 -110.0            -10.0         -3.0       .37          0.0               I I  RI   - 9 *
.........................    ........................................................                                                                 .
Total* by trolect Phase.                                     Met Cash flow - %stablab.hent Period   -    - - - - -                   -   53.6
Not Cash Plow - Pial Fellng - - - - - -.-                              704.7
Retonue Costs   - - - - -                             -               932.0
itot Cash Flow - Project - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                  932.0



Anne: .
Page 1 of 40
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BiUTAN
FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT 1460-BHU)
Terminal Report of UNDP/FAO Project:
Technical Assistance to Reforestation and Salvage LogaAng
Project - FO:DPIBHU/841009
Rome, Italy 1988



Annex 1
Page 2 of 40
F[:0PIuHU1s41oo9
Tortilnal Report
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
TO REFORESTATION AND SALVAGE
LOGGING
BHUTAN
PROJECT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
UNIltD NATIONS DEVELOPMINT PROGRAMME
fOOD  AND  AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
Of THE UNITED NATIONS    ROME, 1066



Annex 1
Page 3 of 40
To:DP/BHU/84i0O9
Terminal Report
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO REFORESTATION
AND SALVAGE LOGGING
B H U T A N
PROJECT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Report prepared for
the Government of Bhutan
by
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
acting as executing agency for
the United Nations Development Programme
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Rome, 1988



Annex 1
Page 4 of 40
The designations employed and the presentation of the material and maps
in this document do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever
on the part of the United Nations or the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of a-'1 country, territory,
city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the Ltlimitation of its
frontiers or boundaries.



iii                    Annex 1
Page 5 of 40
The Food and Agriculture Organization is greatly indebted
to all those who assisted in the implementation of the project
by providing information, advice and facilities.



Annex 1
v                    Page  6 of 40
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS                                                  ix
GLOSSARY                                                                x
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                        I
1.1   Project background                                           1
1.2   Outline of-official arrangements                             1
1.2.1   Total project financing                              2
1.2.2   Starting and completion dates
of the project                                    3
1.3   Objectives of the project                                    3
1.3.1   Development objectives                               3
1.3.2   Immediate objectives                                 4
1.3.3   Amendments to project planning                       4
2.   RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS                                             6
2.1   Plantation establishment and maintenance
activities                                                6
2.1.1   Nurseries and seedling production                    6
2.1.2   Pre-planting activities                              7
2.1.3   Planting                                             7
2.1.4   Post-planting                                        7
2.1.5   Weeding                                              8
2.1.6   Beating up                                           8
2.1.7   Conclusions                                          8
2.2   Plantation infrastructure and management                     9
2.2.1   Footpaths                                            9
2.2.2   Fencing                                              9
2.2.3   Fire protection                                      9
2.2.4   Plantation cost                                      9
2.2.5   Conclusions                                         11
2.3   Salvage logging activities                                  11
2.3.1   Pre-operational activities                          11
2.3.2   Road construction                                   11
2.3.3   Timber extraction                                   11
2.3.4   Log haulage                                         12
2.3.5   Logyard and log sales operations                    12
2.3.6   Site clearing                                       12
2.3.7   Conclusions                                         12



Annex 1
vi                  7Page 7 of4a
2.4   Project organization and management                        13
2.4.1   Project organization                               13
2.4.2   Staff training and consultancies                   13
2.4.3   Acquisition of vehicles and
equipment                                       13
2.4.4   Control of project vehicles                        14
2.4.5   Public relations                                   14
2.4.6   Stability of operations                            15
2.4.7   Conclusions                                        1S
2.5   Timber stand                                               15
2.5.1   Timber inventory and operations
planning                                        15
2.5.2   Timber extraction                                  15
2.5.3   Timber stand as criterion for salvage
logging and reforestation                       16
2.5.4   Logging methodology and equipment
for salvage logging                             16
2.5.5   Site clearing                                      16
2.5.6   Conclusions                                        17
2.6   Road construction                                          17
2.6.1   Road construction and maincenance                  17
2.6.2   Roadside planting                                  18
2.6.3   Conclusions                                        18
2.7   Logyard and marketing methods                              18
2.7.1   Log haulage                                        18
2.7.2   Logyard and sales operations                       19
2.7.3   Conclusions                                        19
2.8   Assessment of salvage logging                              19
2.8.1   Overall performance                                19
2.8.2   The project's future in the southern
belt                                            20
2.8.3   Conclusions                                        20
3.   RECOMMENDATIONS                                                  21
3.1   Plantation management                                      21
3.1.1   Quality of plantations                             21
3.1.2   Plantation management and maintenance              22
3.1.3   Precautionary measures against
epidemics in plantations                        22
3.1.4   Planting of fodder species                         22
3.1.5   Formal fire fighting programme                     22



Annex I1
Page 8 of 40
vii
Page
3.2   Nursery management                                         22
3.2.1   Nursery management techniques                      22
3.2.2   Properly potted seedlings                          23
3.3   World Food Programme assistance                            23
3.4   Management of salvage logging activities                   23
3.4.1   Guidelines in forest classification                23
3.4.2   Suitable logging methodology and
equipment                                       23
3.4.3   Managerial and supervisory training
programme                                       24
3.4.4   Roadside planting                                  24
3.4.5   Safety and health programme                        24
3.4.6   Forest extension programme                         24
3.5   Forest engineering                                         25
3.5.1   Forest engineering programme                       25
3.5.2   Forest road building programme                     25
3.5.3   Equipment repairs and maintenance                  25
3.6   Management of Forestry I                                   26
3.6.1   Exemption of project vehicles from
Dzongkhag control                               26
3.6.2   Maximum wood utilization by local
industries                                      26
3.6.3   Marketing strategy                                 26
3.6.4   Strengthening of the project staff
at Gaylegphug                                   26
3.6.5   Completion of the project in the
southern belt                                   27
Appendix I  PROJECT STAFF                                              29
Appenoix 2  MAJOR ITEMS OF EQUIPMENT PURCIZEASED                       30
Appendix 3 LIST OF FIELD DOCUMENTS AND MAPS PREPARED
DURING THE PROJECT                                       31



Annex 1
Page 9 of 40
viii
LIST OF TABLES
Page
1.   Project finance                                                  2
'.   Project targets                                                  3
3.   Amended project targets                                          5
4.   Plantation costs                                                10



Annex 1
Page 10 of 40
ix
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        -       Agricultural Development Bank
BLC        -       Bhutan Logging Corporation
DFO        -       Divisional Forest Officer
FD         -       Forestry Department
FED        -        Forest Engineering Division
IDA        -       International Development Association
Mn/M       -       man-month
PWD        -       Public Works Department
SDR        -       Special Drawing Right
TA         -        Technical Assistance
TCP        -        Technical Cooperation Programme
WB         -        World Bank
WFP        -        World Food Programme



Annex 1
Page 11 of 40
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 PROJECT BACKGROUND
A systematic approach to reforestation in Bhutan began with the
introduction of the Fifth Five-Year Plan in 1980 when the Government
of Bhutan realized that its forest resources could not possibly be an
inexhaustible source of timber and revenue. With FAO's assistance, a
reforestation proposal for the highly populated southern belt was
completed by the Government as the basis of a request for financial
assistance from the International Development Association (IDA).
The Government's immediate decision to embark on a forest conservation
programme through reforestation was primarily based on a pre-investment
survey indicating that of a total forest area of 8 800 km2 in the border
area, over 500 km2 was degraded. Rapid implementation of the project has
been amply justified by the recent discovery that extensive tracts of the
country's coniferous forests are either dying or already dead from insect
and fungus infestation, frost and old age.
The two degraded areas selected for the project are in the foothills
bordering on India and adjacent to main urban centres. The western loca-
tion is situated within 30 km of Phuntsholing (population 10 000) and
is close to the existing plywood factory at Gedu, the proposed particle-
board and calcium carbide factories and existing private sawmills. The
eastern location is situated within 35 km of Gaylegphug (population
4 000) where there are two existing sawmills, a veneer factory, a
furniture factory and a dist.lling plant which requires wood fuel for
the boilers as well as sawnwood for packing cases.
Based on the results of this project the FAO Technical Cooperation
Programme (TCP) and the World Bank (WB) are now prepared to recommend a
second phase project in western Bhutan.
1.2 OUTLINE OF OFFICIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Negotiations between the Government of Bhutan and IDA were held in
Washingt2n, DC, from 28 February to 2 March 1984 for a proposed credit



Annex 1
Page 12-of 40
2
of Special Drawing Rights(SDR) $US 5 400 000 (SUS 5 500 000 equivalent)
to finance the pilot project. The loan was approved as Credit No. 1460-BHU
on 25 March 1984.
The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) provided financing
for 27 man-months (mim) of technical assistance on salvage logging and
reforestation.  It also provided 30 rm/  of foreign training of local
staff. However, it was agreed that staffing and other local costs would
be the responsibility of the Government.
TAO provided technical assistance for project BRU/84'009 'Technical
Assistance to Reforestation and Salvage Logging'. The Project Document
was approved by FAO on 5 July 1984, by the Government of Bhutan on
24 August 1984 and by UNDP on 11 September 1984. Consultants and experts
were employed in the following fields of specializatiiin:
-   Project planning and procurement
-   Plantation planning and management
-   Roads and logging
-   Silviculture research
-   Plantation development
A detailed list of project staff is given in Appendix 1.
1.2.1  Total project financing
Contribution from the three agencies were to total SUS 6 800 000 and
we.a divided as shown in Table 1.
Table 1
PROJECT FINANCE
Source                 Local            Foreign        Plantation
($US million)   ($US million)  ($US miUlion)
IDA                     0.9                4.6             5.5
Bhutan                   0.9               -               0.9
UNDP                     -                 0.4             0.4
Total                    1.8               5.0             6.8



Annex I
Page 13 of 4b
3
1.2.2 Starting and completion dates of the project
The IDA project was originally for a five-year period with the
physical targets specified in Table 2.
Table 2
PROJECT TARGETS
Logging         Roads         Plantation
Fiscal year                  (ha)            (kma)           (ha)
1984-85                    400              6.0           400
1985-86                    600              6.0           600
1986-87                    800              8.0           800
1987-88                  1 000             10.0         1 000
1988-89                  1 000             10.0           - 1/
rota:                    3 800             40.0         2 800
1/  Adoption of the fiscal year as the project year allow only
four planting seasons during the five-year period, resulting
in a discrepancy of 1 000 ha between logging and plantation
targets.
1.3 OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
1.3.1 Development objectives
The long-term objectives of the project were to develop a systematic
approach to forest renewal for environmental protection and to aid the
development of locally based wood industries. The project ,as the first
attempt at an integrated land clearance and reforestation operation in
Bhutan. It was conceived to address some of the environmental problems
that had emerged as a result of uncontrolled exploitation of natural
forests (for fuelwood, timber and grazing)  close to roads and settled
areas in southern Bhutan. Simultaneously, the Government wished to
reinforce the authority of its Forestry Department (FD) over the preserva-
tion and exploitation of natural forests. The project aimed to develop
the institutional capacity within FD to undertake integrated logging and
reforestation operations and to replace degraded forests with young,
healthy nradt:-ive %nacies.



Annex 1
4                 Page 14 of 40
1.3.2 Immediate objectives
The immediate objectives of this project were to provide technical
assistance and associated local training in order to clear and replant
some 2 800 ha of forest land in the Phuntsholing and Gaylegphug of Bhutan.
IDA extended a credit of $US 5 500 000 and UNDP provided a comprehensive
programme of training and technical assistance. The principal objectives
of this technical assistance (TA) project in developing a systematic
approach to forest renewal were:
-   determining suitable species to be planted in the regions;
- developing suitable criteria for logging and road construc-
tion; and
- gaining operational experience with road construction, log
extraction, nursery operations, and plantation establishment
and maintenance.
To achieve these objectives, this project was designed to clear
approximately 3 800 ha of degraded forest land and to replant 2 800 ha
with suitable tree species during the five-year project period.
1.3.3 Amendments to project planning
Since late 1986, plans for the remaining two years of the project
have been changed, primarily because of widespread deterioration of the
coniferous forests in western Bhutan. Some machines have been transferred
there from Gaylegphug to increase salvage lopging capacity. The IDA loan
is being reformulated so that funds can be made available for the purchase
of additional equipment. As a consequence, the total physical target in
salvage logging will most likely be reduced by 1 000 ha in the southern
region, without necessarily altering the original plantation target of
2 800 ha. Table 3 shows the amended plan.
Despite the reduction in area, the project intends to retain the
original reimbursible road budget of 40 km because the actual requirement
is currently averaging 15 m/ha.  Hence, 2 800 ha would need about 42 km.
From project experience, it appears that most of the remaining I 000 ha
can be completed during the fourth year.
The TA project was completed by mid-1987 and remained unchanged
except for the extension of the roads/logging consultancy for three
months.  The 5  /im of unspecified consultancies were awarded to a
mechanical engineer and an equipment operator trainer for 3 m/m and



Annex 1
5                Page 15 of  40
2 m/m, respectively.  Engineering specialists were sought because the
machines that had been ordered arrived late and the degree of mechaniza-
tion in operations incresed.
Table 3
AMENDED PROJECT TARGETS
Fiscal year                   Logging         Roads        Plantation
(ha)      ~(kmn)          (ha)
1984-85                         400             6.0            400
1985-86                          600            6.0            600
1986-87                         800             8.0            800
1987-88                          500            10.0           500
1988-89                          500           10.0            500
Total                          2 800            40.0         2 800       |



Annex 1
6                Page 16 of 40
2. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS
2.1 PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES
During the project, plantations were generally established by
transplanting seedlings raised in the nursery. This method was supplemented
by the direct sowing of seeds of selected species. The entire process of
plantation establishment is briefly described below (more detailed informa-
tion is available in the field documents listed in Appendix 3).
2.1.1 Nurseries and seedling production
The first-year nursery programme was successful in supplying all
seedling requirements since the planting area was only 308 ha. The nursery
operation was then extended to its outer limits in the second year when
the planting area was increased to about 804 ha. This enlarged planting
target was fulfilled by including seedlings purchased from private nurseries
and seeds sown directly in the field. Seedling production at project-
related nurseries peaked in 1986 with approximately 1.2 million plants
intended for a third-year target of 650 ha. The project was conducted to
allow short-falls in planting or beating up to be supplemented by puzcnasea
seedlings and direct sowing.
Seedlings were raised mostly in stump form as planting stock. Emphasis
on stump planting was not only related to the dominance of Gmelina and
Salmalia but was also based upon the convenience and low cost of handling
stumps in the field. Potting grew less popular and became negligible.
A small percentage of the seedlings was also used as bare-root planting
stock.
Apart from attaining peak capacity, the nursery programme improved its
capability for producing quality planting stock. A permanent seed storage
shack was established to store seeds for simultaneous germination on an
appropriate schedule, thus reducing the problem of variation in size and
growth rates of planting stock.- At subsidiary nurseries, watering was
greatly facilitated by the acquisition of a 5-hp pump to draw water from
adjacent water sources. It was anticipated that previous shortages of
planting stock would not recur, especially since subsequent planting
targets were reduced significantly from 1 000 ha to 400-500 ha annually.



Annex 1
Page 17 of 40
2.1.2 Pre-planting activities
Seeds of major species, comprising Gmelina arborea, Salmalia
malabarica, Alstonia scholaris and Chukrasia tabularis. were collected
from selected mother trees from January through April and germinated in
the nursery from April through June. Seeds of Chukrasia, Terminalia,
Ailanthus and Acrocarpus intended for direct sowing were stored in sacks
until the planting season. The nursery growing stock also included
wildlings of valuable local species, in particular Anthocephalus cadamba,
which were collected in the forest and immediately transferred to the
nursery during September and October.
Prior to planting, footpaths were provided to facilitate manual
transport of material and supplies within the planting site. Bamboo or
barbed wire fencing was also constructed along perimeters that were
vulnerable to the entry of animals.
2.1.3 Planting
The planting method depended  on the type of planting stock.  Stumps
were directly planted in holes dug with a crowbar, while direct sowing
and bare-root planting required a 45 cm-wide terrace constructed with
hoes. Spacing for bare-root plauzcing and direct sowing on the terraces
was 2.5 m x 2.5 m.
In the first year, 751; of the area was plante- wizh _melina and
25% with Salmalia and Ailanthus. In the following year, Gmelina and
Salmalia comprised 307. of the area while the rest was planted with ten
other species including Eucalyptus and Leucaena. The third year planting
was expected to be 32% Gmelina, 27% Salmalia, 18% Chukrasia, 14% Alstonia
and 9% Terminalia, Ailanthus and Acrocarpus. Based on this species-mix,
plantings would be 60-75% stumps and 25-407. direct seeding. Planting with
potted barerooted seedlings was negligible.
The initial survival rate was generally satisfactory at an average
of 65-707., although some patches planted with seedlings in pots were
assessed at a low 45%. The direct sowing survival rate was so
consistently high that some areas resembled nurseries rather than
plantations.
2.1.4 Post-planting
After the planting season, the planted areas were inspected to
locate spots where seedlings failed to survive or were dying. These



Annex 1
Page 1i of TW
8
were replaced with new seedlings, preferably of the same species.
Filling-up continued until the desired survival level within a compartment
or coupe was achieved. Then the young plantation was periodically cleaned
and cleared of vines, bamboo and other weed species. As a deterrent to
the spread of fire from one plantation area to another, coupe or compartment
boundaries were cleared into 8 m-wide firelines.
2.1.5 Weeding
The rapid growth of Mikania, Eunatorium, Bambusa and other weed
species necessitated four to five weedings per year at a cost of
18-19 man-days/ha; the intensity of weeding is particularly high in direct
seeding areas until the third year. The convenience and low cost of
initial seeding are therefore nullified by subsequent, frequent and costly
weeding operations until the th'ird year.
The planting of Stylosanthes (verano stylo) as a counteracting cover
crop was tested but was not successful. Other species must be tried to
help suppress weeds.
2.1.6  Beating up
On average, 30-35% of initial established sjedlings died after the first
planting season. The relatively high survival rate, which is even higher than
the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) standard of 60%, could be
attributed to the impact of direct seeding. Each spot planted with three
to four seeds was likely to yield at least one plant, thus increasing the
overall survival percentage. Surplus plants from direct sowing became
convenient replacements for failed seedlings.
2.1.7 Conclusions
In spite of the apparent success of Gmelina, there are reasons to be
wary of relying too much on this species. Together with Alstonia, it is
susceptible to insect defoliants. Recent observations also indicate that
monkeys may have a preference for young Gmelina foliage. Experience
suggests that to improve the survival and growth rates in the field,
properly potted seedlings should be raised and planted. In this way,
other promising species, such as Michelia, could supplement Gmelina.
Given the rapid growth of weeds and irregular rainfall in the off season,
potted plants were found to be preferable replacements for failed seed-
lings because of their stable condition and early start in growth.



Annex 1
g              Page 19 of 40
2.2 PLANTATION INFRASTRUCTURE AND MANAGEMENT
2.2.1 Footpaths
Most of the footpaths were created by improving or extending trails
previously used by villagers and tree fellers. Because of steep and
broken terrain, footpaths were quite dense at 80-100 m/ha. Despite the
high density, soil disturbance was not a problem, as the structures
were of minimum width and depth, and most trails had long been established.
2.2.2 Fencing
Fencing was problematical because actual requirements in materials
and cost far exceeded estimates. Barbed wire had to be imported from
India, and its price rose continuously. Perimeters that needed fencing
were long since most planted areas have a slim rectangular shape. To
save on cost, the laying of barbed wire was limited to three rather than
four strands, and bamboo was used wherever available. Nevertheless,
fencing amounted to about Nu 550/ha.
Regardless of the cost, fencing was absolutely necessary to keep
cattle, buffalo, barking deer and other animals away from the young
plantations.
2.2.3 Fire prorection
No formal fire protection programe was in effect, even though
plantations continued to expand. Forest guards simply patrolled the
planted areas from January through May when the climate was generally
dry. When fire occurred, all available personnel were mobilized for
firefighting, using manual tools.
As the dry season in the southern belt is distinctly hot and long,
fire is likely to occur in any of the plantations from Samchi to
Gaylegphug - a distance of over 250 km. Such a volatile situation
calls for a formal fire-fighting programme which would provide svstems
for early detection, rapid deployment of men and equipment. ard fire
suppression.
2.2.4 Plantation cost
Plantation cost, from site clearing through the fourth vear after
planting, was estimated to be Nu 8 103/ha as shown in Table 4.



Annex 1
10                Page 20 of 40
Table 4
PLANTATION COSTS
Item                              Man-day
(at ca. Nu 8/unit)      Nu/ha
Clearing to burning                             109                875
Preparing§stakes                                 53                425
Planting, including preparation
Stump planting                                 32                256
Direct spot sowing                             55                440
Direct life sowing                             66                528
Bare-root planting                             55                440
Tube planting                                  68                544
Beating up:  257 of 55 m/d                       14                112
Fencing, including labour
Poles and barbed wire                           8                396
Poles and bamboo                               20                157
Weeding
First year                                     94                750
Second year                                    75                600
Third year                                     56                450
Cleaning on fourth year                          56                450
Fire protection:   Nu 185/ha/yr x 5             135              1 080
Cost of seedlings:  Nu 0.35 x 1 700              75                600
Total                                         971              8 103
It is worth noting that the total plantation cost per hectare over
four years is roughly equivalent to the gross sales of timber salvaged
from the same area. In a practical sense, the income realized on the
sa.:es of timber served to finance the plantation portion of the project,
and only the roads and logging components were not covered by in immediate
income stemming from the project.



Annex 1
Page 21 of 40
11
2.2.5 Conclusions
An emphasis on quality rather than quantity of planting stock proved
necessary for the effective management of the plantations. Once the
planting targets were reduced, management was able to concentrate on
eliminating the problem of variation in size and growth rates of planting
stock. The participation of the private sector is considered to be the
most important development in the reforestation project. Private growers
demonstrated to themselves that the business of growing tree seedlings
is competitive with raising agricultural cash crops. Forestry projects
in Bhutan and in the neighbouring Indian states are expected to continue
buying seedlings from the existing private nurseries. This public
consciousness augurs well for the future of forestry in Bhutan.
2.3 SALVAGE LOGGING ACTIVITIES
2.3.1  Pre-operatiz.al activities
A timber inventory of all standing commercial trees with at least
3-ft girth formed the basis for the demarcation of annual blocks
and the projection of harvesting and marketing schedules. Data in the
timber inventorv were also used in dettrmining all requirements to
complete logging and site clearing before the rainy season. Operations
plans were projected on locally enlarged 1:20 000 maps prior to demarca-
tion of coupes and staking of road routes.
2.3.2 Road construction
While temporary roads were usually constructed manually using hand
tools, the construction of permanent roads was mechanized to attain
prescribed standards in gradient, alignment and surface. Roads were
formed by bulldozers aided by occasional blasting; gravel was loaded
by a front-end loader onto 4.5 m3-capacitv tipper trucks; and gravel was
spread manually. For permanent roads, installation of concrete culvert
pipes was compulsory; these pipes were usually reinforced bv retaining
walls.
2.3.3 Timber extraction
Because most jobs were on a manual contract basis, felling and
bucking was done by handsaw and axe, and log length was limited to



Annex 1
Page 22 of 40
12
2-4 m to conform with the capacity of a five-man rolling crew. A few
power chainsaws were used exclusively by trained operators in an effort
to promote efficient yarding/skidding. Logs were transported from stump
to landing by direct rolling, although swinging with a cable crane or
using a farm tractor and loader with winches was encouraged as a road
saving measure.
2.3.4 Log haulage
Depending on their size, logs were manually rolled up a makeshift
ramp or crosshauled with rope. Industrial wood and firewood were hand
carried directly from landing to truck. Unloading at the central logyard
was accomplished by rolling the materials off the truck after releasing
the nylon rope binders.
2.3.5 Logyard and log sales operations
Sorting and stacking of incoming materials were carried out both
manually and mechanically. Each stack was provided with a lot number
and a corresponding scaling record for ease of reference during sales.
Selling was usually conducted by an open auction with a lot, or lots,
going to the highest bidder, provided the winning bid was not less than
the reserved price.
2.3.6 Site clearing
Immediately after all saleable wood was removed, the site was cleared
for planting by burning leftover materials. Manual piling of materials
usually resulted in efficient burning.
2.3.7 Conclusions
By the end of the third year, the pilot project had produced results
acceptable to the Government and other organizations. Apart from achieving
its physical targets, the project had become a profit centre through its
salvage logging component. Operation statistics were compiled and
analysed, leading to the discovery of misleading assumiptions made in the
past regarding timber stand and timber extraction. Thus, in future,
planners of similar projects can benefit from the experiences of this
project.



Annex 1
13           Page 23 of 40
2.4 PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
2.4.1 Project organization
Full staffing was not achieved owing to FD's staff shortage and
an increasing number of projects. Not one of the three Divisional
Forest Officers (DFO) expected to work with the project was available,
so that the Project Manager often worked directly with the five Rangers
in the field. The workload became even heavier when staff members
participated in foreign training and were transferred elsewhere upon
their return to Bhutan.
Work specialization was not possible because of the shortage of
staff. Each Ranger was allocated a number of coupes for which he
served as road/logging manager during the dry season and plantation
manager during the rainy season. He was also responsible for the
maintenance and protection of roads. Prior to 1987, project staff
also handled logyard and sales operations, to the detriment of field
operations.
2.4.2 Staff training and consultancies
The TA project provided overseas training for four local staff:
one assistant DFO was trained in the United States for six months, one
Ranger in Austria for a month and two Rangers in the Philippines and
three months each. Under FD's own programme, one Forester and a Trainee
Officer completed ranger's training in India.
On-the-job training using long-term consultants was instituted in
1984 and found to be effective. The previous plantation-oriented
consultant is responsible for the present proficiency in seed collec-
tion, nursery practices, plantation establishment and research.
Training in operations planning, road layout, road construction, drainage
systems, timber extraction and mechanized operations was provided by the
Roads and Logging Consultant with positive results. Training of mechanics
and operators, however, was disappointing because the appropriate experts
spent only a few days in Gaylegphug.
2.4.3 Acquisition of vehicles and equipment
Other than the unavoidable purchase of three cable cranes and
20 power chainsaws, equipment acquisition was limited to necessities.



Annex 1
14            Page 24 of 40
For example, for road construction only two small tipper trucks were used
to apply gravel to 40 km of roads. Field supervisors relied on two
Indian-made jeeps while workers were served by the tippers and a tractor-
drawn trailer. The only luxury vehicle available was a Toyota pick-up
which the Project Manager shared with consultants, visitors and local
government officials.
The acquisition cost of all field and office equipment, machinery,
tools, rigging,spare parts, etc., totaled $US 810 000 compared to the
budgeted amount of $US 1 600 000. Actual savings totaled about
$US 970 000 because two cable cranes and one Toyots pick-up were diverted
to other units of FD. (See Appendix 2 for a list of major equipment
purchased by the project.)
2.4.4 Control of project vehicles
Field supervision is currently hampered by a government regulation
that all project vehicles be controlled by the Dzongkhag. Drivers must
obtain approval for trip tickets from the local traffic officer on a
daily basis. Since government offices open at 08.00 h, field supervisors
and consultants may not reach the site until two or three hours after
field workers have begun work.
While a control measure is appropriate for most government vehicles
serving within the vicinity of the town centre, it is not suitable for
field projects in which vehicles are routinely dispatched to the field
on short notice.
2.4.5 Public relations
At one time, owing to misconceptions about the intentions of the
project, the public protested the clearing and burning of degraded
forests near farms, villages and towns. It appeared to the layman that
the forests were being destroyed to the detriment of farmlands, villagers
and livestock.
Although the long-term benefits of reforestation are beginning to
be recognized and appreciated, a better informed public will help to
minimize destructive activities; The young plantations must be protected
by all sectors in the country.



Annex 1
15             Page 25 of 4U
2.4.6 Stability of operations
Experience has demonstrated that project performance is particularly
sensitive to the transfer _f work from one site to another. Lacklustre
performance in the first year was attributed to the abandonment of
Phuntsholing, and difficulties in the third year were largely caused by
the transfer to western Bhutan.
2.4.7 Conclusions
Good management and maximum utilization of available resources have
been responsible for the project's satisfactory performance. In particular,
the staff and contractors contributed to the success of the project through
their commitment to maintain the schedule - even enduring the hardship
of living in makeshift dwellings at the site. The working relationship
between management and staff was based on trust so that complaints,
bickering and work stoppages were practically non-existent. Arranging
for the participation of the World Food Programme (WFP) in the project
indicated to the workers that management was sincerely interested in their
welfare.
2.5 TIMBER STAND
2.5.1 Timber inventory and operations planning
The World Bank (WB) Appraisal Report of 15 March 1984 estimated that
project areas contained an average of 67 m3/ha of saleable timber. A
100% inventory, however, found only 22 m3/ha in Phuntsholing and 12 m3/ha
in Gaylegphug.
The large discrepancy between estimated and actual timber stand
created havoc for roads and logging planning. Based on the WB estimate,
ten cable cranes, 48 power chainsaws and a meager 10 m/ha road density
were budgeted. In fact, the actual low timber content necessitated
manual, rather than mechanized, operations and a road network density of
15 m/ha of main roads and 40 m/ha of temporary roads.
2.5.2 Timber extraction
Net logging recovery averaged 12.8 m3/ha, which confirms the
reliability of field inventory data. Direct extraction, from felling



Annex 1
Page 26 of 40
16
to roadside transfer, cost about SUS 10.82tm3 in contract fees for felling,
crosscutting and log rolling. Manual production capacity was about 2 man-
days/m3.  In some cases, the contract rate was reduced by 15Z when project
machines swung the logs or built extension roads.
Firewood recovery was low despite the abundance of materials in the
logged areas. As neither sufficient personnel nor time was available,
the project collected only 3 m3/ha of firewood prior to the assumption
of this activity by Calcium Carbide, whose performance was not better.
2.5.3 Timber stand as criterion for salvage logging and reforestation
For the project areas, the issue of timber stand is academic. With
timber stands of 12-22 m3/ha, the forests are indeed degraded, and the
establishment of new plantations is justified. However, because other
areas contain 67 m3/ha, clearfelling and replanting at the cost of
enormous foreign debt may not be necessary. Other countries in Asia
are managing similar stands on a sustained yield basis by selective
logging, enrichment planting and timber stand improvements. Examples
include Malaysia and Papua New Guinea with 45 m3/ha and the Philippines
and Indonesia with 60-80 m3/ha. Residual stands in these countries are
thought to be capable of sustaining production, provided they are
protected from shifting cultivation.
2.5.4  Logging methodology and equipment for salvage logging
The traditional manual method of logging complemented by limited
mechanization is appropriate when logging recovery is as low as
12-22 m3/ha. At this level, production cannot even pay for cable crane
installation. Mechanized road construction, however, is a different
matter because permanent roads permit a long-term distribution of cost.
Mechanized logging with hign production machines would be suitable
in clear-cutting beetle-infested coniferous forests where logging recovery
of 100-350 m3/ha would justify expensive machinery and extensive road
construction, provided the enormous log production could be sold.
2.5.5 Site clearing
The contract for removing underbrush and burning debris was normally
awarded to the same contractor, who extracted the commercial timber from
a particular area. This arrangement proved mutually beneficial to the



Annex 1
Page 27 of 40
17
project and contractor because of work continuity. Inasmuch as the
workers and camp were already established for the new contract, the
site clearing rate was held to an average of SUS 30/ha.
2.5.6  Conclusions
As long as manual rolling remains the most suitable method of moving
logs from stump to landing, the power chainsaw cannot replace hand tools.
Cross-cutting a tree into many short pieces consumes a substantial amount
of fuel, lubricant, sawehain, file and spare parts. Total output would
be low during the entire life of the machine. Also, in the hands of an
inexperienced operator, the chainsaw is known to be the most dangerous
machine for logging. The project therefore acted correctly in
controlling issuance of the machines to contractors. The use of the
farm tractor and loader equipped with a winch for logging purposes is
an important development. The machines are inexpensive and are the
right, size to complement manual logging. It would be worthwhile to
encourage some contractors to acquire farm tractors equipped with a
winch to improve their productivity.
2.6 ROAD CONSTRUCTION
2.6.1 Road construction and maintenance
A network of 44 km of temporary roads and 16.7 km of main roads was
built in two years to serve 1 112 ha. A total road density of 55 m/ha,
of which 15 m/ha are permanent, was average for the project. Extensive
road building could not be avoided since manual rolling distance was
limited and landings were remote.
The large number of roads constructed was balanced by reduced
construction costs. Temporary roads cost about SUS 500/km while
permanent ones, complete with drainage svstems, retaining walls and
gravel surface cost $US 7 000-9 000/km. The low construction cost was
achieved because of the abundance of natural surfacing materials from
river and pit sources within a hauling distance of 1-3 km.
Road maintenance after salvage logging was minimal: drains were
manually cleaned, roadsides were cleared and potholes were patched.
However, road maintenance was essential after each rainy season owing
to landslips and damage to some fragile road sections.



Annex 1
18          Page 28 of 40
2.6.2 Roadside planting
At a time when reforestation is gaining national recognition,
attention has been focused on the degraded forests in the hills, but not
on the bare sides of roads. Roadsides are,however, the easiest planting
sites because of their accessibility and favourable terrain. A road
right-of-way of 10 m on each-side yields a gross planting area of 2 ha/km
capable of supporting about 3 000 seedlings, using current spacing. If
rapidly growing firewood species are planted, the number of stems could
be three to six times greater. To cite an example, many roadsides of
highway in the Philippines planted with Leucaena at 1 x 1 m spacing have
been producing firewood through thinnings beginning in the third or fourth
year. Regeneration has been natural, by seed or coppice.
Roadside planting is not only important for the production of wood,
but it may be the best bio-engineering treatment to stabilize cut-and-fill
slopes of roads, while making driving more pleasant.
2.6.3 Conclusions
Road grader machinery is practically unknown in Bhutan, since soling
makes road grading impossible. However, improperly maintained roads
cause slow travel, light loading and frequent vehicle breakdown. The
project demonstrated that direct application of a thin surface layer on
a matured or compacted base is a better alternative than soling. Aoart
from their very low cost, maintenance of thin-surfaced rcids is easy
by manual or mechanical means. It is hoped that the experience gained
during the project will lead to improved forest road construction and
result in the introduction of road graders into the country.
2.7 LOGYARD AND MARKETING METHODS
2.7.1 Log haulage
The delivery of logs from roadside to Gaylegphug had originally
been handled by private truckers at about $US 0.85/m3/km. The high
cost was largely attributed to manual loading which normally required
three to four hours per load. Although the haulage distance totaled
7-10 km, each truck completed only one trip per day. However, effective
the third year of the project, trucking was integrated with timber                 I
extraction under one contract, and this resulted in a faster turnover
of fresh logs and better control of fewer contractors.



Annex 1
19              Page 29 of 40
2.7.2  Logyard and sales operations
Sorting and stacking logs according to species or market group
was done entirely by manual contractors at $US 0.95/m3. Despite this
lucrative rate, contractors failed to keep up with incoming production,
and the project was compelled to assign one front-end loader in March 1987.
The combination was found to be very effective in keeping the logyard
orderly prior to sales.
Average log prices have been increasing:  $US 40.64/m3 in 1984-85,
SUS 53.49/m3 in 1985-86 and predicted to be SUS 57.66/m3 in 1986-87,
inclusive of government royalty. The price in the first year did not
include log haulage and logyard costs because sales were conducted at
roadside. Corresponding total production costs during the same years
have been estimated at $US 18.38/m3, SUS 32.15/m3 and SUS 33.00/m3.
respectively.
2.7.3 Conclusions
Claims that locai -ndustries do rot receive a fair share of project
wood production are unfounded. Before each auction, the project office
gives the local industries first option on a negotiated sales basis.
Later, they are free to participate in the open auction where they enjoy
a distinct advantage over buyers from India, who must haul their purchases
at a high cost. :n the case of firewood, exclusive r:ghts have been
given to a government charcoal-based industry to gather an enormous
quantity of materials already on the ground in exchange for paying onlv
royalties. The problem, however, is that local industries do not
capitalize on their advantages, options and privileges. Not settling
payment (including royalties), taking deliveries over excessively long
periods and eventually rejecting deteriorated stock are common with
local buyers of sawntimber and industrial wood.
2.8 ASSESSMENT OF SALVAGE LOGGING
2.8.1 Overall performance
By the end of the second year, salvage logging and plantation
components were 11.2% and 9.5%: ahead of physical targets, respectively.
These production gains were expected to cover shortages in the third



Annex 1
20             Page 30 of 40
year that would arise from the planned transfer of the project to western
Bhutan in late 1986. The fourth year was expected to start without any
significant backlog.
Caution in the acquisition of equipment and business-like conduct
of operations would result in savings from the loan of at least
$US 1 900 000. Moreover, salvage logging has been continuously profitable
since 1984.
Except for one fatality in a log rolling accident in 1986, the
project had a perfect safety record over three years.
2.8.2 The project's future in the southern belt
Because of the large areas of degraded forests remaining in the
southern belt, extension of the project beyond 1989 would be worthwhile
even under direct government financing. With proper use, repair and
maintenance,bulldozers and loaders commissioned in late 1986 could last
until 1992. Other equipment can be replaced through use of local currency.
Physical targets, however, must conform with the capacity of aging
machinery and they are most likely to be 200-400 ha/year.
2.8.3 Conclusions
The project was well on its way to completing che prescribed targets
and objectives promptly and economically. The loan was so erfectively
utilized that savings were expected to reach 40%. Reallocation of the
funds to Forestry It would practically enable Bhutan to undertake two
projects for the price of one.



Annex 1
21             Page 31 of 40
3. RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1 PLANTATION MANAGEMENT
3.1.1 Quality of plantations
The project achieved good results and met WB targets, despite
shortages of equipment and staff. FD accomplished a great deal in
reforestation. However, to meet the WB targets, the FD staff has had
to sacrifice quality for quantity. Plantations established should be
of the highest quality since they are being developed to produce
sawntimber and to replace degraded natural forests. Replacing existing
degraded natural forests with low quality plantation (viz., the 16-year-
old Gmelina and Bombax plantations at Dholgphala) is not an improvement
and does not justify a large investment. It would be preferable to
protect the degraded forests efficiently than to establish low-quality
plantations. To ensure high quality in the new plantations, it is
recommended that more attention be devoted to:
-   collecting seeds from high-quality trees;
-   propagating proven high-quality plantation species;
-   conducting trials of promising species provenance.
In order to establish quality plantations, species that have been
tested in Bhutan, such as Terminalia sp and Michelia champaca, should be given
preference, despite the difficulty in propagating them. In 1987, four
species which accounted for 91% of the planting were selected because
of their ease of propagation in the nursery and because they could
be planted as stumps. Few of these species had been tested in planta-
tions in Bhutan.
Since planting targets have been reduced from their original levels.
efforts previously spent on planting large areas may be diverted to
establishing smaller, better quality plantations. Additional activities
that could be developed or improved include soil analysis, weed control
and genetics research.
l



Annex 1
22              Page 32 of 40
3.1.2 Plantation management and maintenance
A reduction in planting targets should not be interpreted as a signal
to transfer experienced staff from the project.  It is recommended that
the nucleus of the original stalf be maintained for implementing overall
plantation management and maintenance.
3.1.3 Precautionary measures against epidemics in plantations
The defoliation of Gmelina and Alstonia in 1986 revealed the need
to formulate measures to prevent future infestations. If preference is to be
given to a particular species in the plantations, it is recommended that pure
stands of.that species be limited in size tnd tnterspersed with other species-
blocks.
3.1.4 Planting of fodder species
In areas close to villages, fences had been cut and cattle damage
was substantial. It is recommended that such areas be planted with
Leuceena and/or other fodder species that can be coppiced on a periodic
basis; the areas should be opened at regular intervals for cutting by
villagers, on the condition that the cattle feed on the collected fodder
outside the plantation.
3.1.5 Formal fire fighting programme
Since established plantations have already reached commercial
proportions in scattered and isolated locations, it is recommended that
the Government formulate and implement a formal fire protection programme,
which would provide personnel, tools, equipment and training for fire
prevention and suppression.
3.2 NURSERY MANAGEMENT
3.2.1 Nursery management techniques
Although nursery production is adequate to achieve targets, it is
recommended that practices be significantly improved.  With the use of
present practices, it is doubtful whether existing nurseries can sustain
current levels of production for more than three or four years. Impressive
amounts of seeds are collected, but very little processing is done; this



Annex I
Page 33o-TW
23
is wasteful. In addition, the lack of control exercised over seed source
is potentially dangerous. These improper practices are chiefly motivated
by the need to fulfil ambitious targets.
3.2.2 Properly potted seedlings
In spite of the present preference for stump planting, project
results indicate that greater reliance on potted seedlings would improve
survival and growth rates of plants in the field. It is recommended
that a separate area in the nursery be provided where improved and
proper potting techniques can be undertaken.
3.3 WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME ASSISTANCE
The Government should seek assurance of continued assistance from
the World food Programme (WFP), since food supplies have attracted manual
workers to the project and improved their efficiency, despite low wage
rates in the southern belt.
3.4  MANAGEMENT OF SALVAGE LOGGING ACTIVITIES
3.4.1 Guidelines in forest classification
FD should determine the level of timber content at which a forest
is considered to be degraded. Conversion of natural forests into planta-
tions is recognized as labour-intensive and expensive and has resulted
in the disappearance of some valuable species. It is recommended that
FD set a standard volume per hectare to help determine the most
appropriate forest management system. As discussed above, forest
conversion should be undertaken only when absolutely necessary.
3.4.2 Suitable logging methodology and equipment
Mechanization is not recommended for logging low-volume areas,
except for road construction. Only small, inexpensive utility machines
can operate economically to complement manpower. The Government is
therefore advised to continue relying on the traditional manual method
for logging low-volume areas. This method is particularly effective
on a contract basis when labour is abundant but supervisory capacity
is limited.



Annex 1
Page 34 of 40
24
3.4.3  Managerial and supervisory training programme
In order to strengthen Bhutan's managerial and supervisory capacity,
it is recommended that technical officers be formally trained in
professional management. Training, especially overseas, also serves as
an incentive and a reward to deserving officers.
If the Royal Institute of Management cannot provide such training,
it is recommended that managers be sent to the Asian Institute of
Management, or to a similar institution, and supervisors attend short
courses, seminars and workshops that are regularly offered in various
centres in the Asia and the Pacific Region.
3.4.4 Roadside planting
Regardless of which organization controls the highway right-of-way
areas, it is recomnended that the Government initiate roadside planting
of rapidly growing *nd short-rotation species along the east-west high-
ways in the terai for firewood production and roadslope stabilization.
3.4.5 Safety and health programs
Workers, the most important resource of FD, should be safeguarded
against accidents and health hazards. Risk is particularly high in the
forestry sector, because working conditions are difficult and the work
itself is dangerous, especially when machines are used.
It is recommended that the Government formalize and implement a
safety and health programe, beginning with the establishment of safety
regulations and the compulsory use of personal protective equipment
by all workers assigned to heavy ana hazardous jobs. Field workers
should be provided with hard hats, safetv footwear and gloves; chainsaw
and drilling crews with visors and earmuffst and tree climbers with
sa.7-ty belts, straps, spikes and rope.
3.4.6 Forest extension programme
Public relations are becoming more important with the increase in
clearfelling and reforestation activities. To promote public education
and the cooperation necessary for the protection of established planta-
tions, it is recommended that FD formalize and strengthen its forestry
extension work using the media and extension workers in the field.



Annex 1
Page 3_5 oTf
25
3.5  FOREST ENGINEERING
3.5.1 Forest engineering programme
Deterioration of coniferous forests in western Bhutan and other
places has created a vast logging area which lacks a significant
infrastructure. Basic forest engineering, particularly a road network
and a logging plan for-remote and scattered areas, has not been
formalized. A Forest Engineering Division (FED) within the Bhutan
Logging Corporation (BLC) was established recently, but it lacks
sufficient manpower, equipment, training and guidance to undertake the
enormous amount of planning and field work required.
Because of the importance and heavy responsibilities of FED, it is
strongly recommended that a special project, similar to the UNDP/FAO TA
project in Vietnam, 'Strengthening the Forest Engineering Institute
be formulated to develop and strengthen FED.
3.5.2 Forest road building prograume
Construction of the planned extensive road network would be expensive,
and FD would require assistance from other government agencies, particularly
the Public Works Department (PWD). It is recommended that the Government
integrate some FD and PWD road proJects to se-we tie national  .nterest more
effectively.
It is therefore proposed that PWD, through its ADB-financed Roadworks
Mechanization project, undertake construction and upgrading of FD roads
that serve permanent communities and those connecting sections of the
national highway.
3.5.3 Equipment repairs and maintenance
The proposed self-contained equipment workshop and its mobile
supporting units are necessary to service all equipment designated for
western Bhutan. Without similar facilities, equipment in the southern
belt must be serviced by dealere in India. Caterpillar is noted for
excellent after-sales service, even of other brands of machines,
including Tractors India.
While the project is still in a relatively early stage, it is
recom_ended that FD ensure the good operation of the workshop and
facilities at Paro before additional equipment arrives. At the same
time, the project in Gaylegphug should initiate an arrangement for



Annex 1
Page 36 of TO
26
repairs, on a contract basis, with Traccors India. It should be made
clear to the dealer that the quality and duration of repairs would
influence this future purchase of machines.
3.6 MANAGEMENT OF FORESTRY I
3.6.1 Exemption of project vehicles from Dzongkhag control
In order to establish effective field supervision and forest protec-
tion, project vehicles should be exempted from present control regulations
enforced by the Dzongkhag. It is recommended that the Project Manager,
as a high-ranking government official, be given full authority and control
over his own project's vehicles.
3.6.2 Maximum wood utilization by local industries
Government-owned wood industries should fully utilize the raw
materials being produced by sister projects, especially to relieve
shortages of logs or excessive production cost.
It is recommended that the logging projects establish a close rapport
with the Gedu Manufacturing Corporation for logs and with Calcium Carbide
for firewood, so that the processing, disposition and collection of
materials will be mutually beneficial.
3.6.3 Marketing strategy
Log production that cannot be absorbed by local industries should be
sold in the open market at the best possible price to recover high produc-
tion costs. The establishment of an effective marketing programme is
therefore recommended, which will include regular surveys of old and new
buyers, new wood products being developed, alternate log sources and
prevailing log prices.
3.6.4 Strengthening of the project staff at Gaylegphug
As the participation of a consultant is no longer possible, FD should
immediately assign an Assistant Project Manager and an experienced road
surveyor. These staff members will serve as replacements for staff who
served as counterparts of the roads/logging consultant but who were
transferred after training.



Annex I
Page 37 of 40
27
3.6.5 Completion of the project in the southern belt
It is strongly recommended that the momentum of the continuing project
in the southern belt not be disturbed by transferring or dividing its staff
and equipment. Earlier in the project, the transfer of workers, families,
equipment and materials disrupted production activities, while cross-country
transfers of heavy equipment was expensive and dangerous. A firm plan for
work to progress within a 100-metre radius would ensure continuity and
stability of operations until the completion of the project.
Because of the late arrival of road-building machines, it is recommended
that the project be extended until 1992, with an additional physical target
of 1 000-1 200 ha.



Annex 1
29             Page 38 of  40
Appendix I
PROJECT STAFF
Dates of service
Name                Function                Starting date    Concluding date
International
E. Aula         Equipment Operator            17 Oct.  1986      16 Dec.  1986
Trainer
W. Harding      Mechanical Engineer              May   1986         June  1986
Consultant                  11 Oct.  1986      10 Dec.  1986
A. Mordeno      Roads and Logging             18 Nov.  1984      15 Jan.  1985
Consultant                   5 Oct.  1985       3 May   1986
23 Sept. 1986      21 Dec.  1986
18 Feb.  1987      18 May   1987
0. Wright       Planning and Procurement    30 April 1984        30 June  1984
Consultant
Plantation-Planning and        4 Oct.  1984       8 Jan.  1985
Management Consultant        1 April 1985      30 April 1985
Silviculture Research         19 June  1985      22 Aug.  1985
Consultant
National
Tara Giri       Project Manager                1 April 1984      30 May   1987
G.K. Pradhan   Project Manager                 1 June  1987
D. Wangchuck   Assistant Project Manager    1 May   1984         30 June  1986
R.H. Haran      Accountant                     1 Jan.  1987
Sangay Tenzin  Ranger                            March 1985
B.K. Pradhan   Ranger                            June  1984
M.R. Pradhan   Ranger                          8 Oct.  1984
Gomchen Dukpa  Ranger                            May   1986
Lungten Chojai Ranger                         21 Oct.  1986
Karma Phuntsho Trainee Officer                   Jan.  1985         March 1985
T.P. Sharma    Ranger                            June  1984         Jan.  1985
S. Hembrom      Ranger                           Aug.  1985         Sept. 1986
J.K. Dutta      Accountant                       May   1984         Dec.  1986
Ugen La         Forester/Road Planner            May   1984         April 1985



Annex 1
30           Page 39 of 40
Appendix 2
MAJOR ITEMS OF EQUIPMENT PURCHASED
Item                            Quantity         $uS 1/
Caterpillar D6D bulldozer with winch                 2           252 540 2/
and FLECO logging arch, 140 hp
International-Hough 125E front-end                  2            135 920
loader with winch and multipurpose
bucket, 80 hp
Nestler-Kholer cable crane with cables               3           242 395 3/
and rigging, 2.5 t capacity
Ford 3600 farm tractor, one unit with               2             12 420
winch, 47 hp
Atlas Copco VT 250 air compressor with               1            15 935
drilling accessories
TATA 1210 SE tipper truck, 4.5 m3                   2             40 360
TATA 1210 SE logging truck with front                1            23 285
drive, 10 t
Toyota Hi-Lux pick-up                               2             18 580 4/
Hahindra jeep                                        2            15 800
McCollough chainsaw, 70 cc                         20             41 600 51
Total                                                          798 795
1/   Includes spare parts equivalent to 15% of unit cost.
21   One unit returned from BLC Paro on 27 March 1987.
3/   Two units with BLC Changkaphug.
4/   One unit with FD Thimphu.
5/   Including tools, spare bar$ and chains.  Total purchase intended
for five years.



Annex 1
31             Page 40 of  40
Appendix 3
LIST OF FIELD DOCUMENTS AND MAPS
PREPARED DURING THE PROJECT
Field Documents            Title                                 Author
I       Road Construction and Salvage                    A.G. Mordeno
Logging                                         1985
2        Plantations and Silviculture                    D.W. Wright
Research                                        1985
3        Initial Report on Workshop and                  W.T. Harding
Field Mechanical Maintenance                    1986
4        Recommended Tools and Equipment                 W.T. Harding
1986
5        Final Report on Workshop and                    W.T. Harding
Field Mechanical Maintenance                    1987
6        Plantations and Silviculture                    C.W. Davis
Research and Review of the                      1986
Draft Managemenc Plan of the
Management Division of the
Forest Directorate 1987-2001
for Coniferous Salvage Opera-
tions in Western Bhutan
Maps
1        Location of project areas
2        Location of main roads - Gaylegphug side
3        Location of main roads - Sarbhang side



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
PRO3JET COKPLETIOM REPORT
FORESTRY DlVLOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1460-BRU)
SOUmarv of ChanaOes in ProleCt Location. Concept and Schedule
Project work began as scheduled in 1984 with planting at Sarbhang and
Phuntsholing.   During the 1984/85 planting season,  forest nurseries were
established at both sites and some 300 ha were planted.   Originally, short-
rotation plantations were to be established on degraded forest sites at
Phuntsholing to supply fuelwood to local markets and charcoal to the Bhutan
Calcium Carbide Limited (BCCL) project.   However, early in the project, a
decision was made to develop separate plantations exclusively for BCCL.  As
sufficient land area suitable for both BCCL and the IDA funded forest plantations
project was not available in the Phuntsholing area, plantation sites were moved
to Samchi 50 km to the west. Planting stock from the Phuntsholing nursery was
used for the Samchi plantations. As BCCL was no longer the market for wood from
the project's plantations, the short-rotation concept for charcoal production was
replaced by longer, sawlog rotations.
During 1985/86 planting season, nurseries were established in the Geylephug
area and about 700 ha of forest plantations were established in Geylephug,
Sarbhang, and Samchi. By the end of 1986, most of the suitable forest plantation
area in Samchi had been planted. In 1986/87, 600 ha were planted - all in
Geylephug.
At mid-term, the project was more or less on schedule with 1,600 ha planted
out of the targeted 2,800 ha of forest plantations. About this time (1987) the
Second Forestry Project (implemented by Bhutan Logging Corporation) was being
prepared, and a number of start-up activities, including purchase of equipment
urgently needed for the integrated pest management program, were required. RGOB
proposed to reduce forest clearing in southern Bhutan, supported by the Forestry
Development Project (Credit 1460-BHU), and to allocate part of the funds for
preparatory works and equipment purchases for start-up activities in areas
covered by the Second Forestry Development Project - Cr. 1900-BHU.
IDA accep.ed this proposal and the project scope and description of IDA
Credit 1460-BHU were amended accordingly. The funds, US$2.5 million, were on-
lent from RGOB to BLC under a subsidiary loan. The closing date for withdrawals
from the principal of the Subsidiary Loan is December 31, 1993.



Ann2e 2
Page 2 of 2
In 1987/88 the project emphasis was concentrated in Geylephug and Sarbhang
where plantation establishment continued at the rate of 760 ha per year,
gradually decreasing in subsequent years to 560 in i988/89 and 200 ha in 1989/90
as the availability of suitable plantation sites declined and civil disturbances
in southern Bhutan increased. By 1990, a total of 2,900 ha of plantations had
been established in the Geylephug/Sarbhang area and planting in this area ceased.
In 1988/89, a decision was made to relocate the project once again - this
time to the Wangdi area, where a combination of grazing and fires had deforested
large areas causing shortages of timber and fuelwood. A nursery was established
in Wangdi and planting (100 ha) commenced in 1989. In 1990 an additional 207 ha
was planted. Unfortunately unseasonably dry conditions during the 1990 planting
season resulted in approximately 50t failure.
The project was expected to be completed by March 31, 1990 with Credit
closing on September 30, 1990.   However, RGOB sought IDA approval for an
extension of the Credit closing date by one year, to September of 1991, to enable
planting of the 1990 failed area.
In 1991, RGOB sought IDA approval for a second extension of the Credit
closing date, from September 30, 1991 to September 30, 1992, and also for a
reallocation of funds from other project activities to the afforestation
component to permit further plantation establishment. IDA approved and at the
same time targets for plantation establishment were raised from 2,800 ha to
3,400 ha, and for road construction, from 40 to 50 km. Planting continued during
1992 with a total of 200 ha being established. By the Credit closing date of
September 30, 1992, a total of 507 ha of plantations were established at Wangdi.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
FORBSTRY DEVELOPKBNT PROJECT
(Credit 1460-BHU)
PROJtCT COMPLETION MRPORT
Proiect Status Statement from Proiect Managernnt
in Lieu of PCR Mission Viyit to Project Area
The World Bank Project Completion Mission intended to visit representative
plantations during a one-week trip from Thimphu through Wangdi and on to Sarbhang
and Geylephug. However, due to civil disturbances in the project area, the
Mission was unable to visit the plantation sites. Therefore, the District Forest
Officer in charge of the project, prepared the following status report on the
forest plantations.
Tbimphu.
Kingdom of Bhutan,
December 02, 1992
Plantation Xxtent and Loeation
Since its inception, the Forestry Development Project has established 3,636
ha of forest plantations - 2,700 ha in the Sarbhang/Geylephug area and 500 ha
in the Wangdi area.
Plantation Mtaitnanme
Plantation sites are concentrated in Sarbhang/Geylephug, with some minor
plantings also at Phuntsholing, Samchi and Wangdi. The 3,000 ha of plantations
established prior to 1989, had been maintained on a regular basis up until 1990.
Scheduled plantation maintenance could not be carried out in the southern Bhutan
during 1990/91 due to civil disturbances in this region. In 1992, plantation
maintenance work was resumed and by the end of the fiscal year, 1992/93, all
plantations requiring maintenance will have been treated. Funds for plantation
maintenance are availiable for this activity in fiscal 1992/93.
Present Status of Fozret Plantations in Phuntsholina/larbhana Area
During the visit of Mr. Ajit Banerjee to the project's Geylephug
plantations in 1989, the Gmelina arborea plantations in the eastern portion of
the plantation, had been attacked by a defoliator. Approximately 20% to 30* of
the total plantation area was affected. Since that time, there have been no new
attacks by the defoliator and the affected trees have fully recovered and have
shown good growth during the past two years.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
attacks by the defoliator and the affected trees have fully recovered and have
shown good growth during the past two years.
As observed by Mr. Banerjee, the majority of the plantation area in the
foot hills areas of Sarbhang and Geylephug, are affected by a creeper - Michenea
scandence - which covers/smothers young plantations, inhibiting their growth.
The Michenea's growth is very rapid in the warm, humid climate of southern
Bhutan and therefore the project is currently undertaking weeding/cleaning of
these plantations up to four times per year, especially in younger plantations.
Once the plantations reach 5 years, they have outgrown the effects of the
Michenea and the need for plantation maintenance decreases.
Status of the Wanadi Plantations
Planting at Wangdi commenced in 1989 with the planting of 100 hectares.
Since that time almost all of the project's plantation establishment has been
concentrated there. In 1990, 207 ha of plantations were established at Wangdi.
Unfortunately the planting season that year was unseasonably dry, resulting in
a high degree of plantation failure. Therefore, in 1991, no new plantations were
established, and plantation efforts were directed to replanting of failed
plantation area.  A total of 80 ha was replanted.    In 1992 new planting at
Wangdi was resumed with a total of 200 ha planted.   In Wangdi, plantation
maintenance work - including fire line and fencing maintenance, filling blanks
and replanting of failed plantation areas - has carried on without interruption.
Original Signed By:
Sonam Tshering, DOF Sarbang;
M.S.Gurung,F.R.;
Rinzin Wangchuk, Forester
World Bank Forestry Development Project



