The Woi
FOR OFFIUC
Report No. 9702
PROJECT COIvPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 873-ZA)
JUNE 25, 1991
Country Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its content may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                                v
Currency Unit                =             Kwacha (K)
US$1.00                      =             K 0.83
K 1.00                                     US$1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   =       3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                      0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)         =       0.386 sq. miles (sq. mi.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DCA      -      Development Credit Agreement
MAI.I.)   -    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Supply
NCDP     -      National Commission for Development Planning
PCR      -      Project Completion Report
PPU      -      Project Preparation Unit
SEU      -      Special Economic Unit
ZIMCO    -      Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Ltd.
ZSIC     -      Zambia State Insurance Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Opeato Evaluation
June 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Zambia
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 873-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zambia - Technical Assistance Project (Credit 873-ZA)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
2
Attachment
Thb document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their official duties.
lts cortents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 873-ZA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ...........................................................                                         i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..................................................
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project  Identity ...............................................    1
2. Introduction ...................................................    1
3. Objectives  and  Project  Design ..................................    2
4. Implementation Experience and Project Results
The Bank's   Role ...........................................    3
The  Sub-projects ..........................................    4
Long-term  Experts .........................................                                5 
Medium-  and  Short-term  Consultants'  Services ..............    5
Economic  Management .......................................    7
Training ..................................................    8
Vehicles and Equipment ....................................  9
5. Longer-term  Impact  and  Sustainability ..........................    9
6. Lessons of Experience
Government  Commitment .....................................    10
Counterparts ..............................................    11
Follow-up  of  Studies ......................................    12
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Basic  Data  Sheet ...............................................    15
Cumulative  Credit  Disbursement .................................    15
Other  Project  Data .............................................    15
Mission  Data ...................................................    16
Estimated  Project  Cost  (at Appraisal) ..........................    16
Actual  Disbursements ...........................................    16
This document has a restticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex I   Long-term Experts ....................................  17
Annex II  Medium- and Short-term Consultants...................  18
Annex III Vehicles, Equipment and Training .....................  20



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 873-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Project C'mpletion Report (PCR) on a Technical
Assistance Project in Zambia, for which Credit 873-ZA (US$5 million) was
approved on December 21, 1978. The credit became effective July 12, 1979.
The original Closing Date of June 30, 1984 was extended to June 30, 1986.
The grace period during which disbursements were allowed after closure was
extended to July 31, 1987. Final disbursement was made on July 22, 1987, at
which date an undisbursed balance of US$67,549 was cancelled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I & III) was prepared
by the Cosentry Operations Division, Southern Africa Department, Africa
Regional Office. Despite numerous requests from the Bank, the Government has
not prepared Part II of the report; however, its views, as presented to the
mission, are reflected in the Project Review prepared by the Bank. The PCR
is based on a review of the relevant project documentation, interviews of
Bank staff involved, and a mission in April 1990 to discuss the project with
Zambian officials.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 873-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMHARY
Obiectives
1.        The Credit was for the first freestanding Technical Assistance
Project in Zambia. During implementation, the project's objectives were
changed somewhat. The original goal was the strengthening of the
Government's planning and project preparation capability through an
infusion of foreign expertise to help prepare projects and carry out
preinvestment studies. There was only a minor role for institution
building and training. Training was to take place mainly through on-the-
job training of local staff by long-term foreign experts. Halfway through
project implementation, however, the emphasis shifted towards providing
technical assistance for improving general economic management, which had
been the principal development problem facing the Zambian authorities. The
project was a convenient vehicle to finance assistance in economic
management, as well as in a number of unrelated, ad hoc technical
assistance activities.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project had a very slow start.  It was intended to be
completed in about four years, but after four years only about 20 percent
of the credit was disbursed. The main reason for the delay was a lack of
consensus within Government on the purpose and design of the project.
Particularly, the National Commission for Development Planning (NCDP), the
intended main beneficiary, did not feel committed to the project for
ideological and other reasons and therefore did not assume responsibility
for project execution. After 1982, however, project implementation
improved through a combination of three factors:
-    transferring the main responsibility for sub-project processing
from headquarters to the Bank's Resident Representative.
-    the appointment of an expatriate project coordinator.
-    the emergence of reform-minded forces within Government, who
found other uses for the project.
3.        Final disbursement was made in July 1987, more than three years
after the original closing date.



- iv -
Results
4.        About half of the project funds were used for the original
purpose of strengthening project preparation; about 15 percent, to support
the Government's economic reform efforts, and the rest for a variety of
unrelated activities. The bulk of the credit financed long-term foreign
experts and medium- or short-.erm consultancies to carry out studies, both
project- and non-project related. Small amounts were used to finarnce
fellowships abroad and project-related equipment, The results of the sub-
projects were mixed.
5.        Most of the long-term experts were employed in line functions
rather than in advisory capacities, as was intended. As a result,
counterpart training was on the whole neglected. Project-related studies
led to a small number of Bank-financed projects, the implementation of
which, however, was severely hampered by the Bank's suspension of
disbursements. Many of the non-project related studies, particularly those
initiated by the Bank, were not properly followed through by the Government
and had very little lasting impact. One of the most successful elements of
the project was the small training component, which financed university
courses abroad for 19 Zambians.
Sustainability
6.        Although the immediate goal of the project was preparing
projects for external financing, the more lasting impact was thought to be
twofolds  a permanent strengthening of planning and proj9et preparation,
and creating the capacity to identify technical assistance requirements and
use offers of such assistance from external sources more effectively.  A
number of professional staff in the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in NCDP
benefited from the fellowships provided under the project and from in-
house courses orpanized by the project coordinator.  The PPU is now capable
of carrying out ..ost project preparation tasks. On the other hand, during
its entire life, the project has remained without a local management
structure. As a result, it did not contribute to institution building, and
the country's absorptive capacity for technical assistance did not improve.
Lessons of Experience
7.        The most significant lessons flowing from the experience with
this technical assistance project appear to be the followingt
-    First, the necessity to ascertain the government's commitment,
and, related to that, the importance of consensus building
within the government and involving all parties in project
design.
-    Second, the futility of on-the-job training of local
counterparts by long-term foreign experts, and the necessity to
devise other means of transferring experience and knowledge.



- v -
Third, the necessity to create a system by which results and
recommendations of studies are disseminated and followed through
in the country.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 873-ZA)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Project IdentitX
Name                 : Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number        : 873-ZA
RVP Unit             : Africa Regional Office
Country              : Zambia
Sector               s Technical Assistance
2.        Introduction
2.01      The freestanding Technical Assistance Project was the first of
its kind in Zambia. It came into being at the initiative of the Bank,
which, by the end of 1977, had become concerned about the slow
disbursements for existing projects and the lack of readily implementable
projects in the country's development plans.
2.02      The project's primary goal was simple and straightforward:
strengthening the government's planning and project preparation capability
through an infusion of foreign expertise to help prepare projects and carry
out pre-investment studies. There was only a minor role for institution
building and training in the project. The Government accepted the project
as designed by the Bank, but for a number of reasons, commitment to it
remained lukewarm and disbursements were very slow. It was not until about
four years after project approval that the Government started making
greater use of the funds. By that time, however, the objective of the
project had shifted from improving project preparation towards improving
general economic management. One of the advantages of the project was its
flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances.
2.03      The following Project Review is structured as follows.  First,
objectives (both 'old' and "new") and project design will be reviewed;
followed by a review of implementation experience and project results.
Some comments will be made about the sustainability of the project and its
longer-term impact. Finally, a few issues will be discussed in somewhat
greater detail as they appear to provide lessons for future projects. The
selected topics ares first, the necessity to ascertzain government
commitment, and, related to that, the necessity to i.ivolve government in
project design; acond, the question of on-the-job training of counterparts
by foreign experts; and, third, the necessity to follow up on the
recommendations contained in studies.



3.        Obiectives and Proiect Desitn
3.0       The original objective of the project wLS to help the Zambian
Government achieve its investment objectives in the Third National
Development Plan (1973-1983) by strengthening planning and project
preparation.  This was to be achieved by providing about 35 manyears of
long-term expert assistance and an equal amount of short- and medium-term
consultant services. The long-term experts would help overcome shortage;.
of experienced planners and project analysts, and the consultant services
would provide essential pre-investment work cn hight priority projects.
Most training was to be on-the-job counterpart training, which would
provide Zsmbians with experience in economic planning and project
preparation. Institution building under the project was limited to
creating greater work-discipline in the various planninig units by the
formation of working parties to prepare sub-projects, and the requirement
to prepare annual work programs.
3.02      Most of the assistance under the project was intended to be for
the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in the National Commission for
Development Planning (NCDP). Within Government, NCDP was the agency
responsible for formulating the country's development plans, and monitoring
capital expenditure. In addition to the PP", other ministries and
government agencies that had a need for project preparation assistance
could also benefit from the project.
3.03      As mentioned earlier, the project as presented to the Board was
basically the Bank's idea, and prepared by Bank staff. Although eventually
general agreement was reached between the Bank ard the Zambian Government
on the projec' ae it was presented in the Development Credit Agreement,
there was a lsck of consensus within Zambia on the project's concept. The
need to improve project preparation was generally recognized, but opinion
on how to best achieve that goal differed widely. The Ministry of Finance
appears to have been willing to tccept the large influx of foreign experts
the project proposed., In NCDP, however, there were strong objections on
ideological grounds to working with the Bank and to increasing the role of
foreign experts, particularly thoso from Western Block countries. Also,
NCDP officials wanted a strong trainirig component in the project, so were
in favor of a large component of fellowships and scholarships. Having seen
many failures in the past, they were skeptical of the proposed counterpart
arrangements.
3.04      This lack of consensus caused serious flaws in the design of the
project's management structure. The overall responsibility for the
execution of the project was unclear in both the President's Report and
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), and intentions expressed in the
President's Report found no reflection in the DCA. NCDP, the main
beneficiary of the project, was not assigned any responsibility for
implementation. In the President's Report, it was merely called "the focal
point for project implementation', which in practice NCDP took to mean the
approval of individual sub-projects. In the President's Report, the
assignment of responsibility for project execution only appears in the job



description of a senior expert to to attracted under the project, who would
"assume responsibility for the smooth functioning of the entire project,
ensuring that all conditions of the Credit Agreement are met...". This
fact, however, was not reflected in the DCA. Provisions related to project
administration were contained in the DCA, but in the absence of an
executing agoncy, it was not clear who would perform that function.
3.05      The unclear responsibilities have continued to haunt the project
for the f-est four years of its life. It would be unjust, however, to
blame project design as such. The design as presented in the President's
Report and DCA is simply a reflection of the lack of consensus about the
project's concept, and of the compromises that were necessary to make the
project acceptable to all parties concerned.
3.06      Towards the end of 1982, a number of factors combined to make
the project more palatable in Zambia (See para 4.03 "Implementation"). By
that time, however, it had become clear that because of persistent
financial problems the preparation of new investment projects did not have
the highest priority any more. Instead, emphasis had shifted to
restructuring the economy and improving general economic management, and
part of the remaining funds was used to support the Government's reform
efforts.
4.        Imp1lement-.on Experience and Proiect Results
The Bank's Role
4.01      The project had a very slow start.  At the end of 1982, four
years after project approval, disbursements amounted to not more than 20
percent of what was estimated they would be at that time. After 1982,
project implementation improved substantially. Before discussing the
Bank's eirect role in project implementation, it should be pointed out
that, more than anything else, the speed of implementation seems to have
been related to the general state of Country-Bank relations and the
presence or absence of reform-minded forces in economic diicision-makiag in
the country.
4.02      Ever since independence, the Government had extended its role in
economic management and planning, until eventually a system of pervasive
government intervention and control over the economy was developeA.
Pricing, subsidy, tariff and exchange rate policies combined to cause
stagnation and financial difficulties. Over the years, the Bank had become
increasingly critical of Zambian economic policies, but had been unable to
achieve much change. When the Technical Assistance Project was conceived,
in 1977/78, the Bank's influence was not large.
4.03      This changed for the better during 1982.  The economic situation
had continued to deteriorate, but reform-minded forces in government had
become more influential in economic decision-making. In April 1983, a
Special Economic Unit (SEU) was created (composed of high level Zambian
officials) that sought actively Bank advice and assistance on economic



-4-
policy matters, which included the use of the remaining funds of the
technical assiatance project. In a short period, a large number of reform
measures were taken, supported by IMF funds and policy-based Bank credits.
Towards the end of 1985, however, the influence of the SEU appeared to be
waning. Ic wae disbanded in April 1986, interventionist forces in
Government gained the upperhand once again, and many policy decisions were
reversed. The financial situation continued to deteriorate to the point
where the Government was unable to serve its debt to the Bank. In May
1987, the Bank suspended disbursements, and curtailed its activities in the
country.
4.04      The Bank's role in project implementation during the first three
or four years was small. Internal project correspondence in Bank files
speaks of a great deal of frustrati6,x. NCDP was slow in submitting sub-
projects for approval, counterparts were not appointed, work programs were
not drawn up and accounts were not submitted. The project was declared a
"prob'em project", but at problem project reviews nothing could be achieved
other than noting the lack of progress and the Government's apparent lack
of commitment. There was just one supervision mission in those early
years. It was not possible, so long after the start of the project, to
ascertain the reasons for the lack of supervision in the early years of the
project. It is doubtful, however, that supervision alone could have brought
about a change in NCDP's attitude towards the project.
4.05      In May 1982, in order to improve project implementation, the
Bank's Resident Representative was assigned primary responsibility for
processing sub-projects to be financed from the credit, and for supervising
project implementation. In an attempt to further speed up progress, the
Bank's Legal Department had started investigating the possibility of
circumventing NCDP and having sub-projects approved directly by other
ministries and agencies in Government. That issue was no longer pursued,
however, when the formation of the SEU and some personnel changes in NCDP
had created a more favorable climate. Until the end of the project, the
Bank's Resident Representative has played a vital role in its execution.
There was one more formal supervision mission from headquarters, in July
1983, which noted the improved situation. Thereafter, implementation was
monitored on a regular basis by the Resident Representative, without
submitting formal supervision reports.
The Sub-proiects
4.06      The TA-credit provided financing for the following sub-projects:
USS million
Eleven Long-Term Experts                                        2.15
Sixteen Medium- and Short-term conisultancies
for studies                                                   2.44
Training programs abroad for 19 Zambians                        0.23
Vehicles and Equipment for the Project                          0.11
Subtotal        4.93
Cancelled       0.07
Total           5.00



Details on the various sub-projects are given in Annexes I, II, and III.
Lona-term Experts
4.07      During the first four years, NCDP had approved contracts for six
long-term experts:  three project evaluation experts for NCDP itself, one
project coordinator for a rural water supply project in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Supply (MAWD), one external debt administrator in the
Ministry of Finance, and one financial director for the Zambia Industrial
and Mitxing Corporation, Ltd (ZIMCO), which is the Government's umbrella
organization for its interests in industry and mining. All experts were
employed in line functions, rather than in advisory capacities, although
ZIMCO's financial director, on a voluntary basis, soon became an active
advisor to the SEU. None of the experts was assigned a counterpart.
4.08      Of the total of six appointees in the early years, however, only
one was a "new" expert: one of the evaluation experts for NCDP. The
others were foreign experts, already employed in Zambia, often in the same
function, but on local contracts. The project was seen by the Government
as a convenient vehicle to bring their salaries ur to international levels.
For as far as could be ascertained, probably only one expert, ZIMCO's
financial director, would have left the country if his existing contract
had not been renewed on better terms. The topping-off of salaries of
experts already present was clearly not the intention of the project, and
the practice was ended quickly after the Bank's Resident Representative
assumed responsibility for processing sub-projects.
4.09      NCDP had delayed engaging a Senior Expert/Project Coordinator
for its Project Preparation Unit until late 1982. The senior expert should
have played a vital role in the initial stages in preparing work programs,
project monitoring and reporting, and organizing training. When the person
finally assumed his functions, in the beginning of 1983. he soon became
invaluable in the further execution and management of the project. Four
more long-term experts were engaged under the projectt two planning
experts in MAWD, one economic advisor in the Ministry of Finance, and one
technical advisor for the Zambia Coffee Company, Ltd.
4.10      There is not much that can be said about the implementation of
this particular component of the project. All experts were hired directly
by the Government. All were again largely employed in line functions.
Apart from the senior expert who assumed extensive training functions,
counterpart training remained insignificant. The Bank's role was limited
to commenting on the experts' qualifications at the time of recruitment.
Medium- and Short-term Consultants Services
4.11      A total of sixteen studies were carried out under the project by
cc.aultants.  Only three were started during the first four years; the rest
was cirried out after 1982. Eleven studies were for various sectors of the
economy, though not all of them were pre-investment studies. The remaining
five studies were related to the improvement of economic management in
general.



4.12      The following five studies were carried out for the aRricultural
sector:
-    Tobacco Sector Study (1980)
-    Inland Fisheries Development Study (1981)
-    A3ricultural Research and Extension Study (1984)
-    Evaluation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
(MAWD), (1985)
-    Lukanga Tobacco Project Preparation (1986).
4.13      The Tobacco Sector Study was undertaken at the Bank's
initiative. Previous Bank-financed projects involving tobacco production
had not been successful, but it was thought that the sub-sector held good
potential. The study, which was guided by the Bank's Regional Office in
Nairobi, was deemed necessary before further investment could be
undertaken. But there were no further Bank-financed tobacco projects, and
the study is now forgotten in Zambia.
4.14      The Fisheries Study was intended to lead to a fisheries project
to be financed by the Bank. Halfway through the exercise, however, Bank
staff considered the consultant's performance unsatisfactory, and convinced
the Governmert to cancel the contract. Bank personnel then prepared the
project, which was approved in January 1985 (Credit 1529-ZA; Fisheries
Development Project; US$7 million).
4.15      The Research and Extension Study was a combined Government and
Bank initiative, and provided the Government with a comprehensive, 15-year
strategy for revamping research and extension services to make them more
appropriate for small-scale farming. It formed the basis for a Bank
project approved in March 1987 (Credit 1746-ZA; Agricultural Research and
Extension Project; US$14 million).
4.16      The Evaluation of the MAWD was to evaluate the efficiency of the
ministry's organizational structure and administrative procedures, and the
appropriateness of the investment program. The study was completed
satisfactorily, but since it was basically intended to help resolve
disputes within the ministry about the delineation of responsibilities of
certain top functionaries, interest for the study has faded after the
functionaries concerned were reassigned.
4.17      The Lukanaa Tobacco Proiect was a feasibility study for an
investment by the Zambia State Insurance Company (ZSIC). When the request
for financing was received by the Bank, the study had already been
completed, financed entirely by ZSIC. As an exception, the Bank agreed to
ex post reimbursement of the foreign exchange cost. After that, more
requests of that nature were received, but they were declined.
4.18      Both studies for the industrial sector were carried out at the
request of ZIMCO/INDECO, the umbrella organizations for Zambia's industrial
state enterprises. The 1981 Fuel Ethanol Proiect was a feasibility study



- 7 -
for a proposed ethanol plant. The project caused some controversy within
the World Bank Group. The outcome was that the economic justification of
the plant would be marginal at best. Over the objections of Bank staff,
however, IFC remained interested in the project and a loan/investment for
it was approved in 1982. Eventually, ZIMCO's board rejected the project
and IFC withdrew. The Forestry/Wood ProcessinR Study (1985) was considered
to be very useful by Zambian officials, and it led to a restructuring of
the industry as a whole, and to a strengthening of ZAFFICO, Zambia's state
enterprise involved in wood processing.
4.19      The two studies, in 1983/84, for the transport sector were less
successful. They were the Trucking Transport Sector Study and the Tazaral/
Operational and Staff inx Study. The Bank had observed inefficiencies in
the operations of the state-controlled trucking industry and TAZARA, and
had hoped that the studies would provide an opportunity for dialogue, and
eventually Bank operations. The studies were carried out quite
competently, and, as Bank staff concluded, provided indeed 'a basis for an
improved dialogue". But the matter was not pursued any further, and the
studies have left no trace in Zambia.
4.20      The Family Health Project (1984), which was originally a project
preparation activity, in fact turned out to be a study tour for Zambian
health officials to familiarize themselves with health systems in various
countries. It was organized by the Ministry of Health, and there was no
direct Bank involvement. Reportedly, the tour was successful, and led to
Zambia's adopting various elements of the Kenyan family health system.
4.21      The Government undertook the Education Reform Studv (1985) as a
condition to the Bank-financed Fifth Education Project (Credit 1251-ZA).
Although it started several years late, it turned out to be remarkable in
several respects. With some Bank guidance, it was organized and executed
entirely by faculty staff of the University of Zambia with the assistance
of university students. Not only was the study much cheaper than a
comparable study carried out by foreign consultants would have been, it was
of good quality and the Government felt that they 'owned' it. Its
recommendations are being implemented.
Economic Manasement
4.22      Four of the five consultants activities financed under the
project to improve general economic management were to help along the
substantial amount of economic and sector work and project preparation that
was going on in the Bank in the period 1983-1985 in support of the
Government's economic recovery program. The fifth activity was the
preparation of the Bank's second technical assistance project that was
aimed at improving development administration.
4.23      The expenditures for Budaetarv Reform in 1984 and 1985 were for
consultants services to help implement the recommendations contained in the
studies Bank staff had carried out to improve budgetary procedures.
I/ Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority. The Tanzanian Government shared in
the cost of the study.



- 8 -
Systems to integrate recurrent and capital expendituras, and to provide
"forward budgeting* were successfully installed. The integrated
recurrent/capital budget procedures are still being used in Zambia to the
Government's satisfaction, but, after a first try in 1986, the system of
forward budgeting was abandoned after it had run into teething troubles,
and Bank assistance was no longer available because of some reassignments
and the suspension of disbursements.
4.24      The Export Promotion Study was a very small element of a larger
study sponsored by UNCTAD intended to create a better policy environment
for export diversification. A Public Sector Investment Proaram was
prepared by consultants for a Consultative Group meeting in Paris in May
1984. Unfortunately, as had been the case with so many previous investment
plans, it soon lost its operational significance because of over-ambitious
estimates of financial resources. The Joint Monitorina Comuittee was an
outcome of the 1984 Consultative Group meeting. The project financed the
installation of a computerized monitoring system for external aid flows and
the implementation of externally financed projects. The system became
operational in the beginning of 1987. After a few initial reports to the
Committee, activities came to a halt in 1988 when political opposition to
the system arose.
4.25      The Preparation of the Technicil Assistance II Proiect, in 1984
and 1985, was at the request of the Special Economic Unit and the Ministry
of Finance. It was an ambitious attempt to improve development
administration which was too weak to be of much use in the planning and
implementation of economic reform programs. It would have involved, among
other things, changes in functions, organizational structures and
procedures of the Ministry of Finance and in its linkages with NCDP and
other ministries. Because of the political sensitivity of these matters,
it was envisaged that the consultants would work closely with high-level
Zambian officials to ensure acceptance by all parties concerned. By the
time the consultants started their work, however, the influence of reform-
minded officials in Government was on the decline and the necessary input
by Zambian staff was not provided. Many of the consultants' proposals
turned out to be unacceptable to the Government, and Bank staff had to make
substantial changes. The revised project was approved by the Board in May
1986 (Credit 1679-ZA; Second Technical Assistance Project; US$8 million),
but because of the Bank's suspension of disbursements in May 1987
implementation has hardly started. It is now doubtful whether it will ever
be implemented in the form envisaged.
Training
4.26      There was a small amount of money earmarked for training, but
the exact size and purpose were not very clear.2/ The President's Report
mentions "a small amount' for funding of short-term training courses and
other training requirements. The Development Credit Agreement, however,
suggests that the money was to defray the cost of counterpart training.
Whatever the original intention may have been, no use was made of this
2/ In the President's Report, training was lumped together with vehicles,
equipment and operating expenses, in total for US$200,000.



- 9 -
component during the first four years. In 1982, the Government requested
permission to use project funds for longer-term university training abroad,
which was granted.  Thereafter, 19 Zambian officials received scholarships
and fellowships of six months to three years duration for a total amount of
US$233,000. This new component turned out to be one of the more successful
features of the project.
Vehicles and Eauipment
4.27      The last component was for project-related equipment and
vehicles, most of which was procured under an agreement between the
Government and UNDP.
5.        Longer-term ImDact and Sustainability
5.01      As mentioned earlier, the project's objectives had changed
during implementation, away from supporting project preparation, towards
improving general economic management. In the event, an estimated 48 to 50
percent of the credit funds were used for strengthening planning and
project preparation. About 15 percent was used to support general economic
management, and the rest, 35 to 37 percent, was used for various unrelated
ad hoc activities that appeared useful at the time, but whose longer-term
impact is difficult to trace.
5.02      Although the immediate objective of the project was to help the
Government achieve its investment objectives in the Third National
Development Plan, the more durable impact was thought to be twofolds first,
a permanent strengthening of the Government's investment planning and
project preparation capabilities, and, second, to build up the Government's
capacity to identify its technical assistance requirements and utilize
offers of such assistance from various external sources more effectively.
5.03      As described in the President's Report, the first longer-term
goal--basically improving the technical skills of Zambian officials--was to
be achieved largely through on-the-job training of local counterparts by
foreign experts. This did not work well. Counterparts were rarely
assigned to experts, and in the few cases when they were, frequent
reassignments and other interruptions prevented an efficient transfer of
expertise. Although the Development Credit Agreement contained the
provision that "...the Borrower shall assign at least one qualified local
counterpart to each expert...", in none of the individual contracts between
the Government and the experts was there any reference to training
functions. It would be too simplistic, however, to blame the lack of
success of counterpart training on this administrative oversight; rather,
it would appear that there is something fundamentally wrong with the
concept of on-the-job training by long-term foreign experts. More about
this in the final section 'Lessons of Experience".
5.04      A number of Zambians did receive relevant training, however, but
in a manner different from that envisaged in the project description.
After he took up his assignment, in 1983, the senior expert/project
coordinator in NCDP's Project Preparation Unit undertook to devise training
programs and to conduct seminars and courses for interested local officials
in the PPU. A number of these officials also benefited from the



- 10 -
fellowships abroad the project financed after 1983. As a result, PPU staff
is now capable of carrying out most project preparation tasks.
5.05      The second long-term goal, to increase the absorptive capacity
for technical assistance, was not achieved. In rather vague terms, the
President's report describes that that was to be attained through
instituting annual work programs and informal working groups, but, in the
complete absence of a local management structure for the project, it is not
surprising that nothing lasting could be accomplished. The senior
expert/project coordinator called several ad hoc working groups to discuss
certain activities to be carried out under the project, but that was
discontinued after his departure.
5.06      In the category "improving economic management", the most
important sub-project designed to have a long-lasting institution-building
impact was the .reparation of the Second Technical Assistance Project,
described in para 4.25. The project's purpose was to enable the Ministry
of Finance to take on a leadership role in devising and executing economic
reform programs. Project implementation, however, was held up by the
suspension of Bank disbursements in 1987, and the recommended
organizational changes met some political resistance.
6.        Lessons of Experience
6.01      The most significant lessons flowing from the experience with
this technical assistance project appear to be the following:
-    First, the necessity to ascertain the government's commitment,
and, related to that, the importance of consensus building
within the government and involving all parties in project
design.
-    Second, the futility of one-the-job training of local
counterparts by long-term foreign experts, and the necessity to
devise other means of transferring experience and knowledge.
-    Third, the necessity to create a system by which results and
recommendations of studies are disseminated and followed thrrugh
in the country.
Gcvernment Commitment
6.02      Full government commitment and understanding as a pre-condition
to project success has been mentioned so frequently in recent project
evaluations that it has almost become a tautology. However, once again,
the main reason for the project's rather disappointing results was the lack
of commitment, or, put more precisely, the indifference on the part of
NCDP, which was the organization intended to benefit most. The reasons for
going ahead with the project in spite of this have not been documented, but
from interviews it may be gathered that, on the Bank's side, there was a
strong desire to push ahead with a project that was already slipping in the
program; and on the Government's side (the Ministry of Finance in this
case), there was a preparedness to go along with the Bank for the sake of
good relations.



- 11 -
6.03      With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear what should have
happened at the stage of project preparation. Bank staff should have
analyzed more carefully the reasons for NCDP's reluctance toward the
project. While the problem of ideology may have been difficult to address,
some of the more practical concerns could perhaps have been dealt with.
They would have learned that NCDP's concern was not so much the lack of
implementable projects as such, but more the need to give local staff
involved in planning and project preparation proper education and training.
NCDP recognized the proposed project for what it wass an expedient to make
a number of projects ready for external financing, but with negligible
training and institution building components and a greater dependence on
foreign expertise. What NCDP wanted appeared reasonable enoughs less
emphasis on foreign experts, and a much larger component to train local
planning staff, not through counterpart training, but rather, through
relevant fellowships abroad. It was for these reasons that NCDP declined
in the first four years to cooperate with project execution.
Counterparts
6.04      Had Zambian involvement in the design of the TA project been
greater, the Government's lack of enthusiasm for the use of foreign experts
and the associated on-the-job training of local counterparts would have
been clear from the beginning. Most aid agencies who provide technical
assistance insist on some sort of expert-counterpart arrangement. Over the
years, the Government has gained a good deal of experience with it, but
most of it was unfavorable. It had come to the conclusion that counterpart
training by long-term experts is a very expensive and ineffective way of
transferring expertise.
6.05      One high Zambian official formulated the problem as follows:
*Counterpart training is usually a continuous source of friction and
frustration, both for the expert and the trainee'. Friction is caused by a
number of factorst
-    The enormous difference in pay between expert and counterpart
that tends to cause resentment on the latter's part.
-    The Government's preference for employing experts in executive
line functions, rather than in an advisory capacity. The
experts usually have no time or motivation to train.
-    The enormous communication problems that become apparent when,
as usually is the case, the gap in knowledge levels between
expert and counterpart is too large.
6.06      It seems significant that Zambian officials interviewed for this
report, who had been exposed to counterpart training themselves, never even
mentioned job training as a useful outcome of the arrangement. If they
remembered anything positive at all, it was usually something more general,
such as the way the expert had approached problems, or had helped in
finding compromises in conflict situations. The same officials were
unanimous in their praise for the (limited) amount of training



- 12 -
opportunities provided in the project's later years; namely, the
fellowships abroad and the in-house courses provided by the senior expert.
6.07      This attitude towards counterpart training is not uniquely
Zambian.  Several studies 3/ have pointed to similar problems in other
countries. In those studies, the use of fellowships was also highly
praised. It seems therefore highly desirable that training of local staff
in projects similar to the one reviewed here, be organized in a different
manner. First of all, the function of expert in an executive function and
that of trainer would need to be split. Because of the usually large
difference in knowledge between expert and trainee, training in a certain
discipline appears to be much more important than training in a specific
job at hand. On-the-job training of counterparts can never be a
satisfactory substitute for university training.
6.08      For the project under review, it would have implied identifying
the training requirements of Zambian personnel first, then sending them to
the relevant university courses, to be supplemented by in-house seminars
given by professional trainers to prepare them for typical Zambian job
requirements, and only then attach them, for the final touches, to the
foreign expert. The added attraction for the beneficiary of such training
would be greater prestige and better career prospects.
Follow-up of Studies
6.09      The medium- and short-term consultancies financed by the project
have produced a number of useful studies, particularly those which led to
subsequent projects. A number of other studies, however, have left no
trace whatsoever. They were usually not project-related, and not started
at the Government's initiative, but at the Bank's. Although it often
proved difficult to trace the original idea behind them, one must assume
that they were supposed to lead to some sort of advice that was considered
useful at the time.
6.10      In Zambia, however, there is no satisfactory mechanism to ensure
that the main conclusions and recommendations contained in reports and
studies are brought to the attention of the decision makers. They usually
end up on civil servants' desks, and, without further action by the
initiator of the study, are then forgotten. It seems clear, therefore,
that if the Bank expects serious results from the studies it undertakes
itself or finances through TA projects, the preparation and follow through
on such studies should be given the same level of attention as is bestowed
on investment projects. Also, as is the case with projects, government
uownership" and participation in the design of studies are prerequisites
for successful results.
3/   See, for example, "Review of Training in Bank-Financed Projects",
Report No. 3834, March 1, 1982, Operations Evaluation Department
(OEP), or the relevant sections in OED's Annual Reviews.



- 13 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION



- 15 -
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REPORT
(CREDIT 873-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
(USS million)
Original   Disbursed      Cancelled       Repaid  Outstanding
Credit 873-ZA    5.00           4.93         0.07
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENS
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   PY84   FY85   FY86   FY87  FY88
(I)    Planned    0.3    1.6    3.1    4.6    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
(ii)   Actual      0.0    0.4    0.6    1.0    2.1    3.4    4.2    4.8    4.9
(iii)  (ii) as    0.0    2.5   19.0   22.0   42.0   68.0   84.0   97.0   99.0
, of (i)
OTMER PROJECT DATA
Identification                       November, 1977
Preparation/Appraisal                April-October, 1978
Decision Memorandum                  n.a.
Negotiations                         Novembez, 1978
Board Approval                       December 21, 1978
Credit Agreement Date                January 26, 1979
Effectiveness                        July 12, 1979
Closing Date (Original)              June 30, 1984
(Revised)                      June 30, 1986
Final Disbursement                   July 22, 1987



- 16 -
MISSION DATA
No. of  No. of    Staff   Date of
Month/Year  Weeks   Persons   Weeks   Report
Preparation/Appraisal           5/78       2         2       4       12/70
Supervision I                   7/81      1          1       1       10/81
Supervision II a/               7/83      1          2       2        7/83
Completion Report               4/90       1.5       1       1.5      6/90
a/   There have been no formal supervision missions &fter July 1983.  In
May 1982, responsibility for supervision was assigned to the Bank's
Resident Representative who monitored project implementation in a
continuing, informal manner.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST (at ADPraisal)
(USS million)
Local     Foreign       Total
1.  Long-term Experts                0.5          2.1           2.6
2. Medium- and Short-term
Consultants' Services           0.3          2.3           2.6
3. Vehicles, Equipment,
Training. Operating
Expenses                        0.1          0.2           0.3
4.  Contingencies                    0.1          0.4           0.5
1.0         5.0           6.0
ACTUAL DISBURSENENTS a/
(USS million)
Total bJ
(all foreign)
1.  Long-term Experts                                2.15
2. Medium- and Short-term
Consultants Services                           2.44
3.  Vehicles, Equipment                              0.11
4.  Training                                         0.23
Total Disbursements 4.93
Cancelled            0.07
Total Credit         5.00
8/   Detailed information on sub-projects is presented in Annexes I, II
and III.
b/   No information is available on local cost expenditures.



- 17 -                       AN    I
Page 1 of 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CR 873-ZA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Long-tqEr ExDerts
Amount
Dascriotion                                USS million
1.      Project Evaluation ExDert in the National                 0.16
Commission for Development Planning (NCDP),
1980-1983. Previously on a local contract
elsewhere in the public sector in Zambia.
2.      Project Evaluation ExRert in NCDP, 1980-83.               0.05
Previously on local contract in NCDP.
3.      Project Evaluation Expert in NCDP, 1981-86.              0.10
4.      Proiect Coordinator in the Ministry of Agriculture        0.13
and Water Development, (MAWD), 1982-1984.
Previously on local contract in MAWD.
5.      Resource Manasement and Investment Develogment           0.19
Coordinator (External Debt Administrator) in
the Ministry of Finance, 1982-1984. Previously
on local contract in the same ministry.
6.      Financial Director of Zambia Industrial and  Mining    0.29
Corporation, Ltd. (ZIMCO), 1982-1986. Previously
on local contract in ZIMCO; contract extension
financed under T.A. II.
7.      Team Leader of the Project Preparation Unit in           0.34
NCDP, 1983-1986; contract extension financed
under T.A. II.
8.      Irrigation Economis'. in MAWD, 1983-1986; contract        0.30
extension financpd from bilateral source.
9.      Agricultural Planning Expert in MAWD, 1983-1986.          0.24
Transferred to NCDP after contract expiration;
new contract financed from bilateral source.
10.     Economic and Financial A'visor in the Ministry of         0.21
Finance, 1984-1986; contract extension financed
under T.A. II.
11.     Technical Advisor to the Zambia Coffee Company, Ltd.,  0.14
1984-1986.
TOTAL Long-term Experts      2.15



18 -                      AM= It
Page I of 2
ZAMBIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CR 873-ZA)
SUB-PROJECTS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Medium- and Short-term Consultants
ServicesiStudies
Amount
Description                                   USS million
1.      Tobacco Sector Study for the Ministry of                        0.26
Agriculture and Water Development (MAWD), 1980.
Sector Study to develop sub-sector policies and
investment opportunities.
2.      Fuel Ethanol Proiect Feasibility Study for ZIMCO/INDECO,        0.12
1981.
3.      Inland Fisheries Development Studs for MAWD, 1981.              0.24
Sub-sector review and project preparation.
4.      Trucking Transoort Sector Study for the Ministry of             0.05
Transport and Power (MTP), 1983.
S.      Tazara Onerational and Staffing Study, for MTP and the          0.14
Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority, 1983.
6.      Family Health Proiect for the Ministry of Health.               0.08
Study tour for public health officials.
7.      Agricultural Research a.d Extension Study for MAWD,             0.46
1984.  Devel'.aent of long-term plan and project
preparation.
8.      Forestry/Wood Processing Study for INDECO, 1985.                0.20
9.      Education Reform Study for the Ministry of General              0.11
Education ant Culture.
10.     Evaluation of MAWD, 1985.  Mostly a review of the               0.28
ministry's planning functions.
11.     Export Promotion Study (Revolving Fund) 1985. Part of           0.01
a larger, UNCTAD-sponsored study.
12.     BudgetarX Reform for the Ministry of Finance. 1984/1985.        0.03
Consultants services for the implementation of
recommendations contained in World Bank Economic and
Sector Work.



ANNEX II
-19 -                                 Page 2 of 2
Amount
Description                                   USS million
13.     Preparation of a Public Sector Investment Proaram, 1984.        0.18
For submission to the Consultative Group.
14.     Preparation of the Technical Assistance II Project, for         0.13
the Ministry of Finance, 1984/85.
15.     Joint Monitoring Committee, Development of a foreign            0.09
assistance monitoring system as requested by the
Consultative Group. 1985.
16.     Lukanpa Tobacco Project, 1986, Project Preparation for          0.06
NCDP and the Zambia State Insurance Corporation.
TOTAL Medium- and Short-term              2.44
Consultants' Services



- 20 -                                ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
7 AB IA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CR 873-ZA)
SUB-PROJECTS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Vehicles, Equipment and TraininR
Amount
Description                                             US$ million
Fellowships and Postgraduate Courses                               0.23
Medium- and short-term training courses abroad
for 19 different Zambian officials from NCDP, the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the
Management Service Board, 1983-1986.
Vehicles and Equipment                                             0.11
TOTAL                     0.34



