                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003398

          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-46070, TF93575, TF94696, TF98487)

                                      ON A

                                  IDA CREDIT
                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.4 MILLION
                         (US$ 2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

       TRUST FUND FOR STATISTICAL CAPACITY BUILDING (TFSCB)
                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 0.40 MILLION

                         KOREA TRUST FUND (KTF)
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 0.70 MILLION

                     SECOND KOREA TRUST FUND (KTF)
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 0.65 MILLION


                                       TO

                                  MONGOLIA

                                     FOR A

  MONSTAT: STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL STATISTICAL SYSTEM OF
                     MONGOLIA PROJECT

 IN SUPPORT OF THE MULTI COUNTRY STATISTICAL CAPACITY BUILDING
                            PROGRAM

                                  June 26, 2015


Macro and Fiscal Management Global Practice
EACCF
East Asia and Pacific Region (EAP)
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 17, 2015)

                             Currency Unit =
                           US$ 1.00 = MNT 1,878
                            US$ 0.71 = SDR 1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BOM       Bank of Mongolia
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CITA      Center for Information, Training and Advocacy
CPI       Consumer Price Index
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CRC       Civil Registration Center
EU        European Union
GDDS      General Data Dissemination System
GDP       Gross Domestic Products
GIS       Geographical Information System
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA       International Development Association
IFR       Interim Financial Reports
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IT        Information Technology
ISN       Interim Strategy Note
ISR       Implementation Status & Results Report
MAPS      Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MNT       Mongolian Tugriks
MONSTAT   Strengthening the National Statistics System of Mongolia
MTR       Mid-term review
NDS       National Development Strategy
NSC       National Statistical Council
NSDS      National Strategy for the Development of Statistics
NSO       National Statistics Office of Mongolia
OECD      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developments
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCT       Project Coordination Team
PDO       Project Development Objectives

                                     i
PPI         Producer Price Index
RF          Results Framework
SDDS        Special Data Dissemination Standard
SMP         Statistical Master Plan
SNA         System of National Accounts
STATCAP     Statistical Capacity Building
TFSCB       Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building
TOR         Term of Reference
UNESCAP     United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
UNSC        United Nations Statistical Commission




                         Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
          Senior Global Practice Director: Marcelo Giugale
                       Country Director: Bert Hofman
                       Practice Manager: Mathew A. Verghis
                   Project Team Leader: Altantsetseg Shiilegmaa
                            ICR Author: Olga Shabalina




                                        ii
                                  MONGOLIA
          MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... ii
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................... vi
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................ vii

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
   6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 47
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 48
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 49
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 51
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 67
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 68




                                                                 iii
                               MONGOLIA
       MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia



                                          DATA SHEET


A. Basic Information
                                                                        MONSTAT:
                                                                        Strengthening the
Country:                Mongolia                 Project Name:
                                                                        National Statistical
                                                                        System of Mongolia
                                                                        IDA-46070,TF-
Project ID:             P113160                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                        93575,TF-94696
ICR Date:               06/08/2015               ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:              MONGOLIA
Original Total
                        USD 2.00M                Disbursed Amount:      USD 2.15M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
National Statistical Office of Mongolia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building
Korea Trust Fund
Turkish International Cooperation Agency
Federal Statistical Office of Germany (DESTATIS)
Korean Statistical Information Service (KOSIS)

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/24/2008     Effectiveness:          09/16/2009        06/26/2009
Appraisal:             01/23/2009     Restructuring(s):       12/20/2013        12/26/2013
Approval:              06/12/2009     Mid-term Review:        04/23/2012        06/12/2012
                                      Closing:                12/31/2014        12/31/2014




                                                 i
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Project at any time        No                                               None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 5                  5
Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting                          20                  20
Managing for development results                                       63                  63
Other economic management                                              10                  10
Other public sector governance                                          2                  2

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                   James W. Adams

                                                ii
Country Director:           Bert Hofman                        David R. Dollar
Practice
                            Mathew A. Verghis                  Vikram Nehru
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:        Altantsetseg Shiilegmaa            Mustafa Dinc
ICR Team Leader:            Olga Vadimovna Shabalina
ICR Primary Author:         Olga Vadimovna Shabalina


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the project is to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the national
statistical system of Mongolia to enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable data for
evidence-based policy making in support of Government's MDG-based National
Development Strategy (NDS).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     User satisfaction rates increased by at least 60
Value
quantitative or   46.70 percent             60 percent                        71.00 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved     10/07/2010                12/31/2014                        12/31/2014
Comments
                  Overachieved. The results of regular Customers’ Satisfaction Surveys, its
(incl. %
                  methodology and recommendations are available on the NSO website.
achievement)
                Targeted statistical products easily accessible in the media, with metadata and
Indicator 2 :
                interpretation of findings.
                                                                               Statistical data
                                                                               dissemination
                Statistical data are        100%                               system developed
Value           accessible through          Increased                          and operational.
quantitative or website and printed         accessibility                      Data, including
Qualitative)    publications in limited     through the mass                   micro data, are
                types.                      media                              publically available
                                                                               through variety of
                                                                               channels.
Date achieved 06/06/2010                    12/31/2014                         12/31/2014


                                                 iii
                  Achieved. Data, including micro data are available through www.1212.mn,
Comments
                  smart phone, tablet applications (MONSTAT, EzSTAT), 19001212 hotline,
(incl. %
                  improved NSO website, regular publications. Statistical library was re-
achievement)
                  established. Trainings for media conducted.
                  Internationally-accepted statistical techniques in collection, compilation and
Indicator 3 :     authenticity verification applied, and regular validations carried out for data
                  sources and statistical products
                                                                                  Development of
                                                                                  new internationally
                                                                                  accepted
                                                                                  classifications and
                                                                                  methodologies that
                                              Regularly
                                                                                  enhanced coverage,
Value             Verification takes place, conducted check-
                                                                                  accuracy of official
quantitative or   need to improve skills      ups based on
                                                                                  data. Development
Qualitative)      and methodology             improved
                                                                                  and adoption of
                                              methodology
                                                                                  revision policy.
                                                                                  Contribution to
                                                                                  surveys conducted
                                                                                  with quality check-
                                                                                  ups.
Date achieved     06/20/2010                  12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
                  Achieved. 14 surveys conducted with improved verification and quality check-
Comments
                  ups. Poverty measurement improved based on new sampling design and new
(incl. %
                  questionnaire for household surveys. Data quality policy developed based on EU
achievement)
                  quality management practices.
                  Statistical outputs released in a timely manner in accordance with
Indicator 4 :
                  internationally-accepted frequency and timeframes.
                                                                                  According to IMF
                                                                                  assessment the
Value                                         Submission of                       NSO met all SDDS
                  NSO meets the major
quantitative or                               statistical data at                 technical
                  requirements of GDDS
Qualitative)                                  SDDS                                requirements for
                                                                                  timeliness and
                                                                                  periodicity.
Date achieved     06/20/2010                  12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
                  Achieved. According to IMF SDDS mission evaluation report (December 2014)
Comments
                  the NSO has met the SDDS requirements. The official submission for SDDS
(incl. %
                  depends upon implementation of the agreed action plan by the Ministry of
achievement)
                  Finance and Bank of Mongolia.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Inter-agency coordination and user-producer dialogue


                                                  iv
                  NSO coordinates
                  statistical activities,
                  collection of official data.
                  There was no                                                  Effective
                  comprehensive evaluation                                      interagency
Value                                          Effective
                  of existing departmental                                      coordination in
(quantitative                                  interagency
                  and centralized statistical                                   place. User-
or Qualitative)                                coordination.
                  reporting conducted in                                        producer dialog
                  terms of usefulness of                                        enhanced.
                  data collected,
                  identification of non-
                  needed info
Date achieved     06/20/2010                   12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
                  Achieved. Department to work with other data producers set up. Agreements
Comments
                  signed with 9 ministries. Customer management system in place. Monthly press
(incl. %
                  conference with media agencies. Center for ITA operational. User satisfaction
achievement)
                  survey regularly conducted.
Indicator 2 :     Human resource capacity
                                                                                Capacity of the
                  Local level staff is trained                                  NSO management
                  by central office staff. In                                   and staff enhanced
                  some cases, some                                              at national and
                                               Optimization of
                  personnel at both central                                     subnational levels
Value                                          organizational
                  and local levels were                                         through
(quantitative                                  structure of NSO
                  trained by international                                      organizational
or Qualitative)                                at the central and
                  organizations. However,                                       changes and
                                               local levels.
                  there was no training                                         comprehensive
                  center and comprehensive                                      training. NSO is
                  training curriculum.                                          recognized
                                                                                internationally.
Date achieved     06/20/2010                   12/31/2014                       12/31/2014
                  Achieved. Department to strengthen local offices set up. Full-time statistician
Comments
                  position created at soum level. Training programs of 4 levels conducted. 4647
(incl. %
                  staff trained locally, 406 in EU countries. NSO started hosting learning visits
achievement)
                  from abroad.
Indicator 3 :     Statistical Infrastructure
                                               Full scale use of
                                               register for                     Full scale use of
                                               surveys. 100%                    register for surveys.
                  Register actualization is
                                               adaptation of                    100% adaptation of
                  weak, internationally
                                               internationally                  internationally
Value             accepted classifications
                                               accepted                         accepted
(quantitative     and standards not fully
                                               classifications,                 classifications,
or Qualitative)   applied, poor sampling
                                               standards.                       standards. Standard
                  design and lack of
                                               Standard                         questionnaire for
                  seasonal adjustment
                                               questionnaire for                surveys developed
                                               surveys developed                and applied.
                                               and applied.
Date achieved     06/20/2014                   12/31/2014                       12/31/2014


                                                  v
                Achieved. New business register system and business register management
Comments
                system developed. Online database system for population and household surveys
(incl. %
                operational. 4 classifications, 11 methodologies developed based on international
achievement)
                standards, and applied.
Indicator 4 : Physical infrastructure
                                            Capacity for
                                            physical
                                            operations is
                                                                                The IT network
                                            adequate and well
                                                                                security system
                                            maintained. At
                                                                                fully installed and
                Most of the workstations least 75% of staff
                                                                                operational. All
Value           are outdated. Currently, at each unit at
                                                                                (100%) staff at
(quantitative   only 3 departments have NSO headquarters
                                                                                NSO at both central
or Qualitative) access to appropriate       have workstations
                                                                                and regional levels
                section of database.        with direct access
                                                                                have workstations
                                            to databases for
                                                                                with direct access
                                            analysis and
                                                                                to databases.
                                            tabulation, and
                                            60% of field staff
                                            have workstations.
Date achieved 06/20/2010                    12/31/2014                          12/31/2014
                Overachieved. The IT network security system was fully installed and
Comments
                operational, data dissemination system developed and fully operational. Tablets
(incl. %
                are vastly used for data collection which resulted in cost-efficiency of the NSO
achievement)
                operations.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/15/2009            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.10
  2     01/25/2011            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.10
  3     04/05/2012            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.65
  4     03/27/2013            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.39
  5     11/29/2013            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.61
  6     06/24/2014            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      1.99
  7     01/28/2015            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      2.15


H. Restructuring (if any)
In December 2013 following the request from the NSO, the undisbursed funds under
“Unallocated category” were reallocated to valid project expenditure categories under all
project components to continue and complete the remaining tasks.




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      After 2008 crisis recovery, the economic reforms and country’s growth in
Mongolia continued. Mongolia was strongly affected by the 2008 global financial crisis
and extremely severe follow-up winter, both of which significantly stunted its economic
growth. In 2009, real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth dropped from 8 percent to
2.7 percent per annum and exports shrank by 26 percent from US$2.5 billion to US$1.9
billion. Since then, the market has begun to recover. Having identified and learned from
previous economic instabilities, the government introduced legislative reform and a new
tightened fiscal policy to guide the country upwards. Mongolia was and continues to be the
least densely (2 persons per sq. km) populated country in the world with 2.56 million
people in 2009, one third of which were poor, though the overall poverty incidence seems
to be declining.

2.       The national statistical system (NSS) in Mongolia has undergone substantial
transformation from a service structured to meet the needs of a planned economy to
one reflecting the needs of the developing market economy and new society. It evolved
from the system of net material product to the system of National Accounts. Data collection
methods have changed from the mandatory complete reporting to sample-based surveys.
The first Law on Statistics was adopted by Parliament in 1994, later amended in 1997,
1999, 2004 and 2008. A law on the Population and Housing Census was passed by the
State Great Khural (Parliament) in early 2008. The statistical system of Mongolia remained
centralized, with the National Statistical Office (NSO) in charge of managing official
statistics and coordinating activities in the sector. The Bank of Mongolia functioned
independently in the area of monetary and banking statistics, and the Ministry of Finance
compiled budget statistics as part of its operations. Line ministries and other agencies
produced two types of statistical information: (i) data collected for the NSO on the basis of
methodologies and questionnaires that must be approved by NSO, and that appear in the
annual Statistical Action Plan; and (ii) data collected for the needs of line ministries, using
methodologies and questionnaires that must be reviewed and discussed with NSO. The
latter did not appear in the Statistical Action Plan. The line ministries and agencies often
published their own data summaries.

3.      The NSO was reorganized in 1990. It became an independent agency under the
authority of the State Great Hural/Parliament. It had branches in each the 21 aimags
(provinces) and Ulaanbaatar and statistical divisions in all 9 districts of the Capital city,
where about half of the country’s population resided. In 2001, Mongolia became a member
of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s General Data Dissemination System (GDDS)
with the NSO as lead agency.

4.    At project appraisal, the country’s vision for development was outlined in the
National Development Strategy (NDS). The NDS, approved by Parliament, included six
main priorities for the period 2007-2021. They were: (i) achieving the Millennium



                                              1
Development Goals (MDGs); (ii) developing an export-oriented, high tech, knowledge-
based economy; (iii) exploiting strategic minerals to build savings, growth, and a modern
processing industry; (iv) developing regions and infrastructure to reduce urban-rural
disparities; (v) halting ecosystem imbalances; and (vi) consolidating political democracy
and an accountable system that is free from corruption and red tape. To monitor progress
in achieving these significant policy initiatives, comprehensive, high quality, and reliable
statistics would be required.

5.     The National Strategies for Development of Statistics (NSDS) were developed
to guide the progress in statistics. The first Statistical Master Plan (SMP) was developed
and approved by the Parliament in January 2006. The NSDS for 2006-2010 updated the
SMP and was accompanied by a financing strategy for its implementation. It was prepared,
discussed with stakeholders, and approved by the National Statistical Council in December
2007. The Strengthening the National Statistics System of Mongolia (MONSTAT) project
contributed to implementation of this NSDS and the next one for 2011-2015, also approved
by Parliament in 2011. A follow up Action Plan was approved by the National Statistical
Council for implementation shortly thereafter.

6.      The proposed project was in line with the Interim Strategy Note (ISN). The
project was included in the ISN, May 21, 2009 (Report No. 48311-MN) to support the
government in strengthening the NSS to produce reliable, timely and good quality data for
monitoring key poverty and development indicators. The outputs of this project would help
sustain achievements of the ISN pillars in the medium- to long-term.

7.      The rationale for Bank support was to consolidate and build upon the progress
made in the area of statistical capacity, for which the Bank had a comparative
advantage. The Bank’s mandate to lead the statistical capacity initiative, particularly in
International Development Association (IDA) countries, was reinforced in the IDA15
Results Measurement System. It specifically stated that Country Assistance or Partnership
Strategies (CAS or CPS) were expected to include a review of the national statistical
system and to indicate what is needed to strengthen capacity to generate and use statistical
data. The Bank had already been a player in statistical development in Mongolia prior to
project approval through a variety of technical assistance initiatives to enhance the capacity
of the NSO and to support the preparation of the NSDS. To build on past achievements and
to avoid duplication, the project team closely coordinated with other on-going operations
in the country.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (II.C. and Technical Annex 3)
and Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) the main objective of the project was to
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the national statistical system of Mongolia to
enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable data for evidence-based policy-making in
support of the Government’s MDG-based National Development Strategy (NDS).




                                              2
9.      The progress towards the PDO was to be measured through the Results
Framework outlined in the PAD (pages 5-6 and Annex 3). It encompassed the key
indicators presented below:

                                       Table 1: Key indicators

 Objectives Hierarchy                                       Key Indicators

          PDO                                        Project Outcome Indicators

The main objective of       Access to information/dissemination
the project is to improve   1. User satisfaction rates increased by at least 60%
efficiency and              2. Targeted statistical products easily accessible in the media, with metadata and
effectiveness of the        interpretation of findings.
national statistical
system of Mongolia to       Coverage/ Accuracy/ Reliability:
enable it to provide        3. Internationally-accepted statistical techniques in collection, compilation and
relevant, timely            authenticity verification applied, and regular validations carried out for data
and reliable data for       sources and statistical products.
evidence-based policy
making in support of        Timeliness:
Government’s MDG-           4. Statistical outputs released in a timely manner in accordance with
based National              internationally-accepted frequency and timeframes.
Development Strategy
(NDS)
Intermediate Outcomes                             Intermediate Outcome Indicators

1. Adequate policy and
regulatory framework as     1.1 Mechanisms for effective interagency coordination established and
well as effective           operational.
institutional framework,    1.2 Mechanisms for effective dialogue with data users and providers
management and human        operational.
resources for statistics    1.3 National Statistics Training Center established.
are in place                1.4 NSO central and local level structure optimized and staff trained, including
                            staff from relevant ministries and agencies.

                            2.1 Registers compiled and maintained.
                            2.2 Internationally- accepted classifications, standards and methodologies
2. Statistical
                            adapted and used in data production.
infrastructure developed
                            2.3 Standard questionnaire for survey developed and applied.
and operational
                            2.4 Targeted surveys conducted, thematic statistical data developed and results
                            disseminated.
3. Investment in physical
infrastructure and          3.1 Capacity for physical operations adequate and well maintained.
equipment to facilitate     3.2 At least 75% of headquarter staff in each unit of NSO and 60% of field
the production and          staff equipped with workstations, with direct access to databases for analysis
dissemination of data by    and tabulation.
statistical agencies is
undertaken and
adequately maintained




                                                    3
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

10.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised. Information was available for all
indicators defined in the PAD. In the ISRs several indicators were slightly re-worded and
specified to reflect more accurately the high-level outcomes and intermediate results.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.    The main beneficiaries of the project were the NSO, the Government and the
general public of Mongolia, as well as international development partners.

1.5 Original Components

12.     The PDO was to be achieved through the implementation of four project
components with a total allocation of US$3.1 million (IDA credit US$2 million; Trust Fund
for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) TF93575 grant US$0.4 million; first Korea TF
TF94696 grant US$0.7 million) – see Annex 3. The components’ description is based on
the PAD and the Financing Agreement.

13.      Component A. Improving policy, regulatory, and institutional framework and
the organizational structure of the statistical system (US$0.57 million) included five
sub-components:
         - Review and improvement of the existing institutional framework to develop
relevant legal environment and mechanisms for interaction of the NSS institutions and
agencies for the production, use, exchange and disclosure of statistical information.
         - Improving the relationship between data users and producers to categorize and
analyze the pool of users (government, industry, academia, media, international
organizations, and the community at large) according to their functions and data needs.
This would serve as a basis to define the demand from each category and inform each group
about statistical programs and data that respond to their needs. The subcomponent would
provide support to user needs and satisfaction surveys, more frequent conferences and
workshops with the media, and a more active role for the National Statistical Council.
         - Improving data dissemination function and procedures to provide easier access to
statistics to a larger range of users through wider dissemination of publications and an
improved NSO website.
         - Strengthening human resource capacity to develop a human resource
management framework with an incentive structure to retain and attract qualified
professionals and managers in the national statistical system. The framework would
include career development, staff assignment programs, and proactive and coordinated
recruitment procedures; to support the design of a training strategy and the establishment
of the National Statistical Training Center with a library containing relevant documentation
in electronic and hard copy formats.
         - Review and improvement of the organizational structure of the national statistical
system to support increased manpower in NSO divisions responsible for data collection




                                             4
and production. It would also help to streamline the existing geographically-based
organizational structure for data collection at the regional level.

14.      Component B. Strengthening the statistical infrastructure (US$0.8 million)
focused on enhancing these key elements – registers, classifications, standards and
methods:
         - Improvement and updating of statistical registers (business, population, housing
and agriculture). According to the national Statistical Law, the NSO has overall
responsibility for establishing and maintaining these registers. Prior to the Law, the
population register was maintained by the State Civil Registration Center (CRC), a state
owned company, and the NSO had no access to its database. This subcomponent supported
access to the CRC database and provided the necessary tools for establishing secure links.
It also supported the development of the Housing (dwelling) Register and the creation of
an agriculture register. The Business Register would be enhanced through the identification
of inactive enterprises and improved coverage of large and complex enterprises.
         - Further development and improvement of classifications and other standards.
Since a broad range of national classifications was available, the project focused on their
revision, in particular the Classification of Economic Activities and the Classification of
Products by Activity. In the absence of a comprehensive glossary of statistical terminology,
a multilingual glossary was to be developed as a component of the metadata repository.
         - Further development and improvement of sampling methods to address the NSO’s
lack of experience in designing samples and to introduce sampling to replace full coverage
surveys, wherever feasible.
         - Improvement of skills in seasonal adjustment to develop indicators, questionnaires,
and techniques for seasonal adjustments to address seasonal variance of production and
prices.
         - Improvement of skills in seasonal adjustment. The subcomponent will develop the
indicators, questionaries’ and techniques for seasonal adjustments to address seasonal
variance of production and prices.
         - Improvement of skills in evaluating and improving data quality. To support the
NSO in data quality issues, a working group, with strong management skills, was to be
formed, to assist and facilitate the introduction of procedures for self- and peer review
included in the “change management”. Training was to be provided to local NSO staff to
separate statistical and administrative duties, and accompanying guidelines were to be
developed.
         - Improving questionnaire design procedures and developing Master
Questionnaire by establishing a questionnaire design unit to prepare the Master
Questionnaire with modules for all relevant sectors and to ensure consistency.

15.     Component C. Upgrading statistical operations, i.e. improving separate
programs, methodologies and the existing data outputs (US$0.62 million) aimed at
enhancing survey and administrative data collection through reengineering and/or
continual improvement, taking advantage of new infrastructure and incorporating
international standards and best practices. In addition, it was to support a thorough review
and inspection of existing data outputs.


                                              5
       - Full implementation of the System of National Account (SNA) to produce national
accounts that are timely, reliable and in line with internationally accepted methodologies.
       - Price statistics to improve calculation of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the
Producer Price Index (PPI) by enlarging the basket of goods covered and upgrading the
methodology; introducing a customized program for the calculation of CPI by location;
and preparing the PPI for major sectors.
       - 2010 Census preparation to focus on the main preparatory tasks identified in the
framework of the 2010 Census and to address the following tasks: the preparation of a
census training plan and program, census mapping, training of trainers, training of
managers, supervisors, and enumerators, provision of equipment and software.

16.      During appraisal, the Bank team approached donors and other development
partners to obtain additional funding. In case of availability of extra funds, the project was
supposed to include additional activities linked to the improvement of the statistical
operations subcomponent in such areas as: the non-observed economy; migration
statistics; industrial statistics; investment and construction statistics; environmental
statistics; agriculture statistics; information, communication and transportation statistics;
demographic statistics; labor force statistics; domestic trade statistics on goods and services,
external trade statistics on goods and services; justice and crime statistics; tourism
statistics; social statistics; poverty and living conditions monitoring statistics.

17.      Component D. IT Infrastructure and Equipment (US$0.93 million) was
designed to enhance IT infrastructure and equipment needed to implement the reforms
envisaged under the project. In addition, consultancy services were to support the
preparation of bid documents to ensure effective implementation of business process
changes introduced by the project:
         - Preparation of an IT plan to support the development of a detailed
computerization plan for the national statistical system that would address a thorough
upgrading of the IT solutions and IT competencies in all data producing agencies including
the NSO (headquarters, and regional offices), statistical units in line ministries and
statistical units in state-owned enterprises.
         - Establishment of an IT network for the national statistical system to upgrade
existing IT and other equipment essential to carry out existing regular and project activities.

18.    In case of availability of extra funds, the project planned to widen its support by
extending the IT network to regional and local offices.

19.     Component E. Project Management (US$0.1 million) aimed to ensure effective
project implementation and day-to-day project administrative work, including monitoring
and evaluation. A financial management specialist and a procurement specialist were to be
hired by the NSO.

1.6 Revised Components

20.    There were no major revisions of components during project implementation.



                                               6
1.7 Other significant changes

21.     There were no significant changes during project implementation. No
significant changes took place in terms of scope, implementation arrangements, schedule,
and initial funding allocations between expenditures categories. At the same time, it should
be noted that additional financial resources were generated from a Korea Trust Fund
TF98487 – second grant - in the amount of US$0.65 million. The grant was specifically
earmarked for developing specific areas of economic and social statistics. The Turkish
International Cooperation Agency provided in-kind support to the project in the form of
printing equipment, worth over US$0.3 million. The equipment was installed and became
operational as observed by ICR mission in October 2014.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.      The project emerged from a long-term engagement between the Bank and the
Government of Mongolia, which focused on enhancing the operations of the NSS. Prior
to the MONSTAT project, the Bank had provided Technical Assistance to the NSO under
six separate projects with overall funding of nearly US$2 million. This commitment, along
with other donors and development partners’ support, provided a basis for initial reforms,
but gains achieved needed strengthening. Given its mandate to promote statistical capacity
activities, particularly in IDA countries as confirmed during IDA14 and IDA15
replenishment negotiations, and its substantial experience in assisting countries in
statistical improvement programs, the Bank was well positioned to support the
development of Mongolia’s NSO and coordinate donor efforts in statistical development.
Additional funding for project implementation was attracted from Korean Trust Fund.
Moreover, the project was prepared in close coordination with the Governance Assistance
Project through its component on Capacity Building for Data Transparency and with the
Data Access for Poverty Monitoring, and Economic Capacity Building Project.

23.     Overall, the Project Development Objective was clear. The PDO was clear and
relevant to Mongolia country’s strategy and circumstances, key ISN pillars, and the needs
of the entire NSS and the NSO. The PDO appeared to be reachable within the planned
project life of five years with all available funds fully disbursed.

24.     The project was designed under the umbrella of the Statistical Capacity
Building program (STATCAP), whose key objective is to support a sector-wide approach
to statistics as defined in a nationally-owned NSDS, coupled with strong government
commitment to its implementation. In this regard, the project was generally well-designed
and aligned with the key objective of the adopted NSDS, namely the upgrading of
conceptual, methodological and analytical capabilities of the national statistical system,
while meeting basic requirements for monitoring the macroeconomic situation, the MDG
indicators, and the other national development objectives. To achieve this objective, the
project focused on (a) improving the policy, regulatory, and institutional framework in




                                             7
statistics, (b) strengthening statistical infrastructure, (c) upgrading statistical operations,
and (d) investing in physical infrastructure and equipment of the NSO.

25.      The project preparation team based project design on lessons learned from
similar operations and experience gained in Mongolia and other countries.
Specifically they were:
         a) Statistical capacity building requires integrated and coordinated support:
project interventions adopted a systemic approach, as defined in the approved NSDS
developed in a participatory way, rather than relying on fragmented and uncoordinated
programs as was previously done;
         b) Ownership of key stakeholders is essential to improved implementation of
statistical projects: the project supported the implementation of the NSDS, which was
prepared through an interactive and consultative process with government, including line
ministries, Parliament, academia, the private sector and development partners. In keeping
with this approach, project implementation included active involvement of a wide range
of users and producers, their training, the strengthening of user-producer dialogue and data
dissemination to stimulate a stronger demand for high quality data;
         c) There is no need to create a stand-alone project implementation unit, when there
is strong commitment by the implementing agency. The project used the NSO as its
executing agency, establishing the internal coordination unit and hiring procurement and
financial management consultants;
         d) Improved quality and wide dissemination of data has a positive impact on the
use of data: the project supported improvements in data quality, such as improving inter-
institutional coordination to produce data, promoting the adoption of standardized concepts,
definitions and classifications, and developing skills for data analysis. It also envisaged the
development of a dissemination strategy;
         e) Focus on institutional reform, going beyond data collection activities, has
greater impact on the statistical system: the project supported a review of the legal
framework and capacity building of statistical staff in technical and management skills to
ensure greater sustainability;
         f) Twinning arrangement between NSO and a well-developed national statistical
office (or a consortium of such offices) could be a better approach instead of hiring
consulting firms or individual consultants. The project opted for a twinning arrangement
to assist the NSO in project implementation, particularly capacity building activities.

26.     In order to achieve the objectives, the following implementation and
governance arrangements were proposed. Institutional arrangements were designed to
integrate project implementation into the regular operations of the NSO, the project
implementing agency. A Project Coordination Team (PCT), consisting of NSO staff, with
assistance from financial management and procurement consultants, was formed to
coordinate project activities, manage reporting and auditing activities, and ensure
compliance with procurement, disbursement and financial management policies and
procedures. Other technical activities were the responsibilities of NSO staff who managed
them with the assistance of local and international consultants. As the project aimed at
improving the national statistical system, the appropriate level of commitment and support


                                              8
was ensured from various government ministries and agencies. The National Statistical
Council (NSC) assumed the oversight and monitoring responsibility for project
implementation. The Parliament appointed NSC members to (i) ensure efficient
interdepartmental (inter-ministerial) interaction and resolve interdepartmental (inter-
ministerial) issues; and (ii) exercise monitoring and evaluation of MONSTAT project
progress on a semi-annual basis.

27.      Twinning arrangements for project implementation became a novelty of
statistical project design and a key instrument for implementation. The Marrakech
Action Plan for Statistics (MAPS) Advisory Board has recommended greater use of
statistical offices of developed countries through twinning mechanisms to reduce the
implementation risks of capacity building projects constrained by the lack of expertise and
technical assistance. Based on this recommendation, the project envisaged that a twinning
relationship be established between the NSO and one (or a consortium) of well-established
statistical offices from developed countries. The twining partner(s) was supposed to carry
out most of the consulting and training activities that the project would finance based on
detailed Terms of References (TORs) prepared by the NSO. Advantages of such an
arrangement would be (i) a significant decrease in the number of contracts to be signed,
(ii) a lower risk of any wrongdoing and improper management of project funds, (iii)
efficient outreach to statistical expertise and sustained engagement with experts, and (iv) a
reduction of transaction time and costs of implementation.

28.     The main risks and mitigation measures were appropriately identified. The
overall risk rating at project design was Moderate – high likelihood, low impact. The main
risks identified and their mitigating measures are presented in Annex 4, based on the PAD
(Implementation section, part E, page 16; and Annexes 7 and 8).

29.    Project preparation processes was well-managed and as a result was
exceptionally fast. The MONSTAT full cycle of design, appraisal and negotiation was
completed within twelve months between September 2008, when the project concept
review meeting was held, and September 2009, when the project was declared effective.
This impressive achievement in World Bank investment lending operation was reached
because of strong support, commitment and well-coordinated work of the NSO,
government authorities, and the Bank project team.

2.2 Implementation

30.      Overall, the project was successfully implemented according to its objectives,
realistic design and agreed implementation arrangements. Despite challenging operational
environment (see below) the project not only largely met its targets, but also completed
several innovations in Mongolian statistics, such as the transfer from SNA 1993 to SNA
2008, the introduction of seasonal adjustments, and the development and launching of a
dissemination policy. The initial IDA funds increased by the end of the project due to a
favorable exchange rate dynamic. All resources were disbursed in full within the original
closing date.




                                             9
31.     The project was implemented according to the original design and did not
undergo major change. It was always well implemented and has never been assigned “at
Risk” status. The project was restructured in December 2013 after completion of 80 percent
of its key deliverables. Based on the request from the NSO the financing plan has been
changed. Undisbursed funds under “Unallocated category” were used to continue and
complete the remaining tasks under all project components and expenditure categories. The
mid-term review (MTR) mission was conducted in a timely manner. A MTR report (June
2012) was prepared and discussed according to Bank procedures. Its recommendations
were taken into account by the NSO. Among them such as: (i) to start looking beyond the
time frame of the existing project to cover new areas of statistics and make the case for
additional resources to secure the achievement of MONSTAT results; (ii) to conduct user
satisfaction surveys (planned for October 2012) following the World Bank guidelines and
adjusts the results of the 2010 survey so that they are as compatible as possible; and (iii) to
consider extending the responsibilities of PCT to cover all development partner support to
NSO.

32.     Project implementation faced minor start-up delays that were effectively
addressed by NSO and project team. As is the case in many investment operations, the
early phases of project implementation included minor delays, mainly caused by factors
beyond the control of the implementation team. Specifically, setting up the twinning
arrangement required more time than originally anticipated. An invitation for proposals
was sent to twinning bidders in December 2009 and the twinning agreement was signed in
August 2010, with a Consortium comprising the national statistical office of Germany
(DESTATIS) and Korea statistical office (KOSTAT). While this twinning partnership was
under preparation, the project activities (e.g. support for the 2010 Population and Housing
Census) were financed by the World Bank TFSCB and the first Korean Trust Fund. Other
implementation issues were associated with a turnover of PCT staff at the NSO, and later
on with a several months delay in the approval of the 2012 Procurement Plan. However,
these issues were identified on time and quickly addressed by both the NSO and the Bank
team, thus ensuring a stable implementation pace that resulted in actual disbursements
exceeding the originally planned ones throughout the rest of project life.

33.     The project was implemented under challenging operational environment.
There were a number of challenging factors that NSO and project team were facing: (i) a
heavy workload for NSO staff that was conducting three censuses at the beginning of
project implementation (Population and Housing Census in 2010, the 2011 Establishment
Census and the Agricultural Census in 2012); (ii) very remote and dispersed locations of
aimags with weak statistical units; (iii) limited project management capacity at the NSO
due to workload (see item (i)) and limited prior experience in managing institutional
development projects; and (iv) limited tradition of in-depth utilization of data by potential
users, thus the need for stronger advocacy and out-reach efforts within government and
society by the NSO.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.   Overall, the Results Framework (RF) was adequate for monitoring progress.
The high-level outcome indicators either had target values or were rather accurately


                                              10
descriptive. The intermediate indicators covered the whole range of project activities and
were adequate in number. Baseline information that was missing before project launch was
provided shortly after the project started. Most importantly, the RF included synthetic
quantitative indicator to measure project achievements, i.e. the user satisfaction rate. The
level and trend of this indicator captured improvement in relevancy of data produced,
access to data, its accuracy and reliability as the survey included questions on simplicity of
access to data, its accuracy, and comparability. In addition, the efficiency of statistical
system performance is indirectly measured by the description of achieved improvement in
physical infrastructure that ensures broader use of modern techniques that makes data
collection and processing faster, and less subject of error. Use of tablets with direct access
to integrated data systems reduces the data collection and processing time, and lead to
workload per unit decrease, hence, the improved efficiency of statistical system
performance.

35.     Tracking progress towards the desired outputs and outcomes was covered by
monitoring and evaluation activities. These included semi-annual project progress
reports prepared jointly by the Project Coordination Team and the Consortium; meeting of
the MONSTAT Consortium Coordination Committee; Aide Memoires of supervision
missions; the preparation of Interim Financial Reports (IFRs), audit reports and their
submission to the respective committees and governing authorities, and the Bank. As
recommended by the Mid-Term Review, the project team and the NSO increased the focus
on project outcomes in Aide-Memoires, progress reports and particularly in the last
Implementation Status Report.

36.     The targets set out in the Results Framework were met. By the end of the
project, the target value of one of the PDO level outcome indicators was exceeded, three
were fully achieved. It should be noted that the NSO produces statistical data entirely in
line with the SDDS requirements for timeliness and periodicity. This was confirmed by the
IMF SDDS evaluation mission conducted in October 2014. At the same time, the official
subscription to SDDS depends on other government agencies, namely the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) and the Bank of Mongolia (BOM).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

37.     There were no safeguard policy issues with this project, rated as a category C. The
project focused on institutional reforms and capacity building without any civil works and,
thus, no environmental impact.

38.     Fiduciary compliance. The MONSTAT project complied with all applicable Bank
policies and was entirely consistent with the relevant Operations Policy Guidelines. Lack
of capacity in procurement and financial management was identified during project
preparation with a risk rating of Moderate. At project onset, performance varied, but
generally improved during project implementation and remained constantly satisfactory.
No mis-procurement was identified. The latest and final IFR was conducted in August,
2014 and no unusual issues were noted. Due to a failure to upload the IFR into the system,
it has been recorded as overdue.



                                             11
39.    All legal covenants were respected as agreed in the Financing Agreement.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     Certain steps have been taken to maintain project benefits. Some project
achievements have been institutionalized and could be sustained (particularly results from
components A, B and C). The government has ensured that recurrent costs, and
maintenance costs for the equipment acquired under the project are sufficiently provided
for in the national budget. The NSO efforts to retain its staff paid off: the five year trend
demonstrates that the number of those leaving the statistical office goes constantly down
while the number of application to enroll is increasing on a stable basis. The NSO
established the interdisciplinary sampling team to maintain the improved samples which
were designed under the project for Household and Expenditure, Labor force, Time use,
Average salary, Copying with disasters, Social indicators and other surveys. An inter-
departmental data quality team was created to focus on further development of data quality
issues and consistent implementation of the agreed measures for its improvement.

41.     As for the next steps, the NSO identified areas for consolidating lessons and
building on project achievements. It began this forward-looking dialogue with the Bank
even before project completion. This proactive approach led to a US$5 million component
in a Smart Government Project that became effective in 2015. The positive implementation
experience and achievements gained by the NSO during 2009-2014 will be further
strengthened during the implementation of this new project.

42.     NSO is pursuing new options and is generating additional resources for the
development of the NSS. As Mongolia is moving to mid-income country status, it is
crucial that the NSO develop a new strategy to attract resources for its development needs.
In April 2015, the World Bank approved another TFSCB grant (TF0A0396) to enhance
NSO capacity and to implement the priority areas of the new NSDS. The NSO has also
applied to the Korea TF for a Statistical Data Literacy and Education Center Project. Thus,
further cooperation with the Bank and other partners could not only help the Government
continue institutional reforms and fill financing gaps, but also be beneficial for the NSS as
a whole.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives Sub-Rating: Substantial

43.     The PDO remains relevant and consistent with Mongolia’s current
development priorities and the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The CPS
for the 2013-2017 period strongly supports more transparent and citizen-oriented public
management through better data and e-government (p.29/23), although the CPS does not
envisage self-standing statistical operations in the pipeline or a repeater project. The NSO
is taking the lead for the Open Data initiative, the largest component in the Smart



                                             12
Government Project. A reliable and trusted statistical system is crucial for a well-
functioning market economy, and thus the objective of the MONSTAT project remains
valid. Moreover, the outcomes of the project have laid the foundation for the achievement
of CPS Pillar I - to enhance Mongolia’s capacity to manage the mining economy
sustainably and transparently – by introducing a separate Outcome 1.2 that aims at
supporting “the government in designing and implementing policies and systems for a
more robust, equitable and transparent management of public revenues and expenditures”.
In its capacity, significantly strengthened by the project, the NSO is better equipped to
support the achievement of the CPS strategic objective of improving the quality of public
services, strengthening accountability to service users, and targeted assistance to the poor
and vulnerable.

44.     Adapted Global Assessment of the National Statistical System of Mongolia
emphasizes MONSTAT achievements and timeliness of its objectives. This
comprehensive assessment was initiated in August 2014 at the request of the NSO, and
jointly undertaken by the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), the United Nations
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP) and the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). It acknowledges the positive impact
of MONSTAT in several areas and provides in-depth recommendations on further
improvements for the NSS and the NSO. It summarized that “the on-going process of
building a modern NSS in Mongolia is on a fruitful path and that the NSO is playing a
leading role in this encouraging development.”

45.     New NSDS for 2015-2020 is being finalized. Currently the NSO is finalizing the
third national statistical strategy before submission to the Parliament for approval.

Relevance of Project Design and Implementation: Substantial

46.     Project design was consistent with the PDO and targeted critical areas for
achieving project objectives. The selection of sub-activities was notably relevant insofar
as it was based on the NSDS diagnostic. Project design was informed and based on the
long-term engagement and technical support provided by the Bank and other development
partners. Technical assistance provided during project preparation addressed the most
pressing needs and ensured consistency in the design of the project.

47.     The actual implementation of the project was relevant to the achievement of
the PDO. First, the decision to assign project implementation to the NSO contributed to
building overall experience and capacity of the NSO, assuring project ownership, and
strengthening the NSO internally, all of which contributed to achievement of the PDO.
Second, the introduction of the twinning arrangement with an external Statistical Office
was a positive initiative in attaining the PDO, in terms of knowledge sharing, direct access
to relevant processes and procedures, and experience exchange. Third, the Bank’s decision
to transfer the Task Team Leadership to the field led to stronger implementation and better
client orientation of project supervision, ensuring PDO is fully supported.

Overall Relevance Rating: Substantial



                                            13
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Attribution and Results Measurement

48.     To assess the extent to which the MONSTAT project achieved the PDO level
results, the causal relationship between project inputs, outputs and outcomes were
reviewed, (see Annex 2, Figure 2.1). It is difficult to attribute achieved results with full
certainty, especially in institution strengthening and capacity building projects and small
projects. Since at the time of project implementation there were no other major initiatives
or significant donor-funded activities in statistics, and MONSTAT was designed to cover
new domains of statistical developments compared to the previous projects, results
assessed here can be most likely associated with the project. Still, in assessing results, the
Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) team considered only those results
that can be causally attributed to project activities.

49.     The project has achieved its development objective. Annex 2 presents key
project outputs in more details by sub-components. Project high level achievements and
intermediate outcomes can be outlined as follows:

    - Data user satisfaction rate reached a level of 71 percent compared to target value
of 60 percent, as documented by the final round of user satisfaction survey, conducted and
completed in October, 2014.

    - Statistical products are easily accessible. Statistical data dissemination system
substantially improved, it is newly developed and operational (data, including micro data,
are available through www.1212.mn, smart phones and tablet applications such as
MONSTAT and EzSTAT, thematic brochures, pocketbooks, monthly infographics,
19001212 hotline service for statistical inquiries, re-established Statistical library for users,
NSO website with improved design and other regular publications). Training for media to
raise awareness on statistics was conducted.

    - Internationally-accepted standards and classifications applied to most statistical
areas, skills in authenticity verification and regular validations improved. The project
introduced data quality management based on EU quality management practices, piloted
and developed data quality reports for some statistical areas. Four international
classifications 1 and 11 methodologies were developed based on international standards and
applied, including ISIC 4.0 and SNA 2008. A master questionnaire was designed and is
being used to update other surveys. Sampling design for household based surveys was
improved. This resulted in better poverty measurement. Since 2012, NSO is calculating a
poverty line which is consistent with international estimates. Business register system was



1
  Classification of Assets that incorporates Classification of financial and non-financial assets”, 2013 (SNA 2008);
“Central product classification”, 2011 (UN Central Product Classification (Version 2.0); Classification of the purposes
of non-governmental organizations”, 2011 (UN Classification of the Purposes of Non-Profit Institutions Serving
Households); ISIC 4.0 is used for GDP, IOT and SUT, and updated classification 3.0 to ISIC 4 for all economic sectors.




                                                         14
created and enriched. Consequently, the project contributed to conducting 14 surveys with
improved verification and quality check-ups. Revision policy was adopted following the
improved classification and standards. All these led to better data coverage, accuracy,
reliability - overall, production of higher quality data.

    - Mongolia is joining the SDDS. An IMF mission concluded that the NSO has met
almost all technical requirements to enter the SDDS. As stated in the IMF evaluation report
regarding timeliness and periodicity, the NSO produces all data according to the SDDS
requirements. Official subscription of Mongolia to the SDDS depends on data to be
provided by other government agencies, such as MOF and BOM. IMF agreed with MOF
and BOM on an action plan to fully comply with the SDDS. More specifically on disclosure
of the central government debt data and on the development and improvement of the
international reserves data. According to IMF, this could happen by the end of 2015.

    - Improved inter-agency coordination and strengthened user-producer dialogue.
The NSO created a department for policy implementation and coordination, which is
responsible for working with other producers of official statistics providing methodological
guidance for the entire NSS. It also signed cooperation agreements with 9 ministries and
agencies to improve coordination and data sharing 2. Training was conducted for 120 staff
from these government agencies. Customer management system is in place. Monthly press
conferences are held with key media agencies. Training for media on how to use statistical
information was conducted. Statistical library for users was re-established in 2013. The
hotline service – 19001212 became functional. Center for Information, Training and
Advocacy (CITA) was established in 2013 and extended training to line ministries and
other government agencies, and data users. Customers’ satisfaction survey is conducted
once in two years with all reports placed on the NSO website.

    - Human resource capacity upgraded. A newly established NSO department for
policy implementation and coordination was assigned a responsibility to strengthen the
local offices. At local level, the NSO succeeded in establishing a position for a full-time
civil servant with a mandate for data collection (treasury fund officer at soum level). CITA
provides professional training programs of four levels to NSO staff. In total, under the
project 4647 staff received in-country training, including 1578 staff from bags and khoroos,
and 334 staff from regional offices; 406 staff (180 from regional offices) were trained in
EU countries. The NSO is now recognized internationally by being elected as a member of
UNSC and expert group of UNESCAP. NSO Mongolia is a co-chair of UB City Group for
economies rich in natural resources. Currently, the NSO started hosting the knowledge
sharing and best practice learning visits from the national statistical offices of other
countries.

    -    Statistical infrastructure developed. Comprehensive business register database was


2
  Ministry of Population Development and Social Protection, General Authority of State Registration, Bank of Mongolia,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development, Ministry of Environment and Green Development, Ministry
of Culture, Sports and Tourism, Ministry of Health, and Customs Authority.




                                                         15
created, business register management system was developed and became operational as
well as the online database system for population and household surveys. Four international
classifications and 11 methodologies were developed and applied, including ISIC 4.0 and
SNA 2008. The sampling design for household surveys and poverty assessment was
improved. Standard master questionnaire was developed and used for surveys. 14 surveys
(SNA, CPI, NOE, HSES, Agriculture census, Establishment census etc.) were conducted
based on international standards, and results were disseminated.

    - Physical infrastructure substantially modernized. IT network security system was
installed; it is fully operational. Data dissemination system developed and also fully
operational. All staff at NSO and regional offices (compared with target value of 75 percent
and 60 percent correspondingly) have workstations with direct access to databases for
tabulation and analysis. Tablets are used for data collection, resulting in cost-efficiency of
the agency operations.

50.       Some specific project achievements could be highlighted as follows:
      -   Data User survey (Customers satisfaction survey) conducted regularly;
      -   User-friendliness increased;
      -   The 2010 Population and Housing Census and 2011 Establishment Census data
          produced quickly, of good quality and linked to GIS (geographical information
          system);
      -   Contribution to the first Agricultural Census conducted in 2012;
      -   Compilation of Supply and Use table and publication of seasonally-adjusted,
          quarterly GDP at current and constant prices, estimated according to both
          production and expenditure approaches, since 2011;
      -   Management issues studied and being introduced in NSO; and
      -   Improved English-language proficiency.

51.    Achievements in institutional development paved the way for a more
successful implementation of the new NSDS. The project demonstrated important
progress in strengthening the legal framework for statistics. Moreover, amendments to the
law are being drafted in line with the recommendations of the MONSTAT project and the
Adapted Global Assessment.

52.     The project has raised awareness and interest in statistics through a number of
important measures including: (i) an increased number of publications; (ii) a new
dissemination policy; and (iii) modernizing of the NSO website, including a powerful data
portal with micro data sets and etc.

53.    What could not have happened without the project? While the counterfactual
for the project cannot be easily constructed, there are a number of developments and
processes that the client and team believe could not have happened if the project would not
be in place. More specifically, during the ICR mission the team recorded the following


                                             16
client views on MONSTAT project impact: (i) the pioneering/pilot nature of project work
for NSO staff under all four project components that has eventually generated a catalytic
effect and appetite to continue moving forward; (ii) twinning arrangements opened the door
to international cooperation promoting the NSO to play more meaningful role in the
international field; (iii) establishment of NSO-user relationship that has not been a regular
practice before; (iv) accelerated transition to 2008 SNA; (v) moving towards full
compliance with the SDDS; (vi) broad dissemination of statistical products – appropriate
policy design, creation of information, Training and Advocacy Centers, and proper
equipment of aimag level offices for this purpose; (vii) convening role of the project that
included many Ministries in its activities and facilitated improved inter-agency
coordination (viii) significant improvements in price statistics.

Achievements of Objectives Rating: Substantial.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency Rating: Substantial

54.      As stated in the PAD, the project is not amenable to a cost-benefit or economic
rate of return analysis. National statistical offices are not involved in any cost-recovery
activities, apart from marginal data publications that generate minor amount of revenue.
The financial returns from this project will not be representative of the economic returns.
Precise quantitative rates of return cannot be determined for this type of project. The ICR
team judges overall efficiency to be substantial. As highlighted by the MTR report, the
project achieved its targets through efficient use of resources and investments. All planned
activities were completed with no project extension. Early delays in project implementation
were efficiently resolved with the joint effort of the NSO and project team, resulting in full
disbursement in a timely manner. Broadly, the economic benefits from the project could
be based on the following: (i) improved efficiency of statistical operations of the NSO,
resulting in a broader coverage of and higher quality data that affect multiple sectors of
society; (ii) better quality data will enhance the potential for evidence-based decision
making, at policy, program, and project levels; and (iii) a significant reduction in the cost
of data collection through improved systems as well as by moving from full count censuses
to sample surveys.

55.     As mentioned in the MTR report and supported by the ICR team: “the
overwhelming impression, given by those interviewed, is that money is being used
efficiently on targeted activities that are achieving good outcomes in terms of capacity built
and statistics produced and disseminated; and that money has been used appropriately with
consideration for value for money and strict spending controls”.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

56.     The project has helped to improve efficiency and effectiveness of the national
statistical system of Mongolia to enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable data


                                             17
for evidence-based policy. The project was a relevant and timely intervention. The
improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the statistical system has been achieved
as evidenced by the production and dissemination of better quality and timely data in all
spheres of economic and social statistics, particularly in national accounts, industry,
transport, construction and agricultural statistics. The training of statisticians and the
adoption of new techniques and methods have improved data accuracy, timeliness and
coherence. The statistical system has become better coordinated, stronger and more
dynamic. Despite minor implementation issues at the early stages of the project, it triggered
the long-term reform process, increased data production, and sped up several data
collection processes on the ground. It also successfully overcame the minor issues related
to financial management and procurement. In terms of PDO relevance (Substantial),
achievements of the PDO (Substantial), efficiency (Substantial) the project performed at a
level consistent with a satisfactory rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

57.     The project prioritized SNA, CPI and PPI statistics and did not specifically
focus on social objectives, but had an overall positive impact on the latter by improving
the overall capacity of the NSO and sub-national statistical bodies to produce relevant,
timely data, based on sound methodologies. The project had only an indirect impact on
poverty reduction by improving the poverty measurement methodology and introducing
international standards. Since 2012 agreement was reached on a single measurement of
poverty: the poverty line is calculated on internationally accepted method0logy. Local
(Aimag – municipal) level poverty indicators are estimated since 2013. The project also
assessed the existing gender indicators framework and provide recommendation for its
development based on best international practice. By providing a steady supply of reliable
and timely social and economic statistics, the NSO will contribute to policy making and
monitoring processes in the country.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

58.     The NSO has strengthened its institutional capacity. This could be supported by
the following evidence: (i) harmonization of statistical legislation with international
recommendations (UN Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics, EU Code of
Practices), which provided the basis for the institutional change of the whole statistical
system, including strengthened collaboration between the NSO and other relevant
government agencies; (ii) modified organizational structure (by the end of the project and
immediately after the NSO created a special division for Survey, Censuses and Sampling,
and a department for Integrated Policy and Cooperation and Dissemination Policy unit, a
Quality group); (iii) improved management capabilities; (iv) introduction of several
internationally-accepted classifications; and (v) significant upgrade of staff expertise and
skills.




                                             18
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

59.      No negative unintended outcomes were observed. The project generated positive
unanticipated impact for the private sector and population. Creation of integrated public
database that comprised the comprehensive and updated household data and livestock
information made the access to credit/loan resources easier and less time consuming. In
cases of applications for loans and financial assistance the banks and other financial
institutions can directly access the database, make assets assessment and make quick
decisions on provision of loan funds to the applicants.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

60.      Overall project implementation and results assessments provided during the
ICR missions were extremely positive. The final workshop of the MONSTAT project
was organized in October 2014, with the participation of key stakeholders, including
government, parliament, consortium, development partners, media, academia and other
users. During its two visits to Mongolia, the ICR team met the direct beneficiaries of the
project in Ulaanbaatar, and in regional offices (aimag and lower levels). The interviewed
beneficiaries of the project considered that the project was timely and important in bringing
the statistical system of Mongolia up-to-date with internationally-accepted standards; that
it positively influenced their own professional development and skill sets which, in turn,
built their confidence in their own capacity to operate in a more efficient way. The project
helped increase the reliability, timeliness and quality of statistics produced in the country,
and, hence, bolstered trust in the statistical system. Beneficiaries also stated that the
capacity of their respective agencies to collect, process, disseminate data had significantly
improved, and they would be able to sustain these gains in coming years. However, they
also mentioned that there will be a need for future support to address new development
needs and to strengthen expertise.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low or negligible

61.     The prospects of maintaining the project’s development outcomes are strong,
especially in the short to medium term. Some of the project’s achievements have already
been institutionalized both at the center and aimag levels. The NSO leadership has shown
a very strong commitment during the project implementation. The Chairman was
unanimously reappointed to another six-year term. The objectives of the project remain
relevant. There are post–operational steps that have already been taken (section 2.5). The
NSO is actively engaged in the implementation of the statistical component (US$5 million)
in Smart Government Project.

62.    Factors in favor of greater sustainability:
(i)    NSO focus on institutional reform, not only data collection activities; this has
greater impact on the statistical system (the project supported a review of the legal
framework and capacity building of statistical staff in technical and management skills).


                                             19
(ii)    Interactive and consultative process with government, academia, the private sector
and development partners: in keeping with this approach, project implementation aimed at
an active involvement and training of a wide range of users and producers, the
strengthening of a user-producer dialogue, and improved data dissemination to stimulate a
stronger demand for high quality data, that in turn, contributes to sustainability once
external support stops.
(iii) International exposure: Mongolia has become an elected member of the UN
Statistical Commission (one of only four countries representing Asia). Since 2012 the NSO
is leading the “Ulaanbaatar city group on statistics for economies based on natural
resources”. These are important initiatives for the NSO to assert its authority and influence
internationally in developing relevant new approaches to measuring the contribution of
natural resource-based activities and their impact on social sectors and the environment.
(iv)    Active NSO engagement in partnerships: with, for example, Finland, Germany,
Korea, and Norway.

63.      Some risks were identified that could potentially limit the prospects for the
gains to be expanded over the medium term. Although the government and the
Parliament have expressed a strong interest in developing the national statistical system,
budgetary allocations for the NSO are stable for regular operations, and staff salaries are
increasing, lack of funds for development needs remains an issue. Additional risks include:
(i) staffing constraints - the small number, age and experience of NSO staff relative to the
scope of activities being undertaken and planned, and the danger of losing staff; (ii) low
level of knowledge absorption capacity; (iii) loss of access to international experts after
project closure; (iv) reduction of grant financing options due to Mongolia’s recent middle
income status.

64.  Taken as a whole, the risk is judged to be low with a potential to expand to
moderate in the absence of longer-term corrective actions.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

65.     Overall, the project team had an appropriate skill mix, substantial country
experience and strong leadership. Technical aspects of the project were well covered, and
a solid business relationship was established with the government and the NSO. Attention
was given to involve partners and stakeholders in the preparation of the project. Lessons
from earlier operations and projects, and complementarities with ongoing initiatives were
taken into consideration. Project activities were fully in line with overall country needs and
development objectives. Risks were identified in a timely manner and pro-active mitigation
measures introduced. A decision to go for a twinning arrangement was made and
implemented.


                                             20
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

66.      The composition of the Bank team remained stable and adequate throughout the
project implementation. The responsible FM specialist, the Procurement Specialist resided
in the Bank country office. After the mid-term review When the Task Team Leadership
was moved from World Bank Head Quarter to the country office, project supervision was
successfully carried out by a combination of co-leaders. This decision permitted regular
project follow-up and the quicker response to address any necessary action, thus ensuring
continuous monitoring and guidance. The Bank’s fiduciary and procurement team also
provided constant and regular advice to the NSO team on grey areas, especially at the
beginning of the project. This enabled the project team to identify potential errors in a
timely manner, and/or address issues immediately. The Implementation Status Reports
(ISRs) were prepared with sufficient detail and on a timely basis. The Bank’s performance
did not have any shortcomings throughout the duration of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

67.     In light of project outcomes, relevant project preparation and quality of intensive
supervision, the overall performance is assessed as satisfactory. The team recognized the
complications at early stage of implementation. Its intensive and continued supervision
efforts and proactive actions allowed for achieving significant results, the completion of
nearly all envisaged project activities, and full disbursement of project funds without any
extension.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

68.    From the very beginning, the borrower’s ownership and commitment were
consistent and strong. The NSO operates under authority of the Parliament, which
approves the NSDSs and the NSO’s work plans. The Parliament recognized the results
achieved through the implementation of the first NSDS for 2006-2010, whose goals were
met with support from MONSTAT in 2009 and 2010. The second NSDS was approved by
Parliament in December 2011. Government demonstrates continuing support as well
through regular budgetary allocations. Other line ministries and agency collaborate closely
with the NSO.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory


                                            21
69.     Despite its heavy workload to carry out the 2010 Population and Housing Census,
the 2011 Establishment Census and the 2012 Agricultural Census, NSO staff managed to
cope with project start-up delays and maintained a constant momentum throughout project.
The NSO successfully managed the turnover of project staff that took place at the
beginning of project by engaging a competent and knowledgeable Project Coordinator and
experienced coordination team that successfully managed the procurement and financial
management aspects of the project. The financial management system was run by the NSO
(project accounting was separate from that of the NSO) and performed satisfactory during
project implementation. It recorded all transactions and balances and allowed the
preparation of regular financial statements that were submitted to the Bank on time. All
procurement of goods and services were conducted in line with the provisions of the
Financing Agreements and Project Procurement Plans, approved by the World Bank. No
procurement compliance issue was raised during the project implementation.

70.     Once the twinning partnership went on track, the NSO learned from best
international practices and has benefited from a sustained engagement with experts and
partners. Later on the decision was made to extend the responsibilities of PCT to cover all
development partner support to the NSO.

71.     The progress made suggests that the NSO is responsive to the advice received from
consultants, e.g. on institutional and organizational issues and human resources, as well as
in technical areas. This responsiveness is also evident in the NSO’s acceptance to
implement recommendations from the MTR and the adapted Global assessment report, as
well as to continue statistical reform in principle.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

72.     Given achievements and results, the overall borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

73.    Assignment of implementation role to the NSO (rather than establishment of a
separate Project Implementation Unit) was a strategically appropriate decision. The
arrangement contributed to (i) project ownership by the key government agency, (ii)
capacity development, and helped (iii) mainstream project lessons in the NSO’s regular
operations. The team assisted the process by recruiting properly trained procurement and
Financial Management specialists to meet implementation requirements.

74.    Advantages of twinning partnership. Using the twinning arrangements under
MONSTAT project proved to be very beneficial to overall project implementation. More
important, the twining partnership ensured outreach to advanced statistical expertise and
sustained engagement with international experts during the project life and after its



                                            22
completion. On the operational side, the twinning arrangement allowed for: (a) increasing
the number of activities by maximizing consolidation, while limiting the number of
procurement packages; (b) simplifying implementation arrangements by ensuring high
level oversight with a dedicated project team to manage the various components; (c)
providing just in time implementation support for the procurement of complex IT systems;
(d) designing a communication plan in advance in order to manage expectations, (e)
lowering the risk of any wrongdoing and improper management of project funds, and (f)
reducing implementation transaction time and costs.

75.    Combination of good preparation planning, strong policy dialogue on the
Bank side and project design fully reflecting the country needs resulted in strong
commitment on the borrower side and exceptionally fast project preparation and movement
from identification to effectiveness.

76.    Bundling of TTL-ship at HQ and local WB office leads to effective project
management. The decentralization of the TTL-ship to the field after mid-term review
helped to address promptly the delays, and proactive overall project implementation. At
the same time, presence of the co-TTL at HQ secured broader access to additional technical
resources for project supervision and access to supplemental donor financing. Overall, this
arrangement for project supervision facilitated successful project implementation
(developmental - progress to PDO; and financial – full disbursement) within the original
timespan with no extensions.

76.   Starting from project design stage, a good balance between twinning
arrangements, engagement of local expertise, and leading role of the NSO was found
and maintained throughout project life.

77.      Early consideration was given to organization of interpretation and
translation services. Project implementation was facing a challenge on translation and
interpretation side. Because of lack of knowledge of foreign language among most of
project participants, particularly at local level, and broad involvement of foreign speakers
in training, this was a constraint. Large volume of interpretation and translation services
were delivered, ensuring proper communication of technical knowledge, building skills
and establishment of strong rapport and understanding.
78.      Successful implementation of the MONSTAT project highlighted that broadening
of the concept of the National Statistical System goes far beyond the NSO per se and is
essential for the development of the national statistical service. The project strongly
supported a user-producer mechanism, comprising of the NSO, regional statisticians, and
statisticians in line ministries and government agencies to discuss coordination, common
statistical issues and challenges in the sector, through working groups and regular seminars.

79.     Early engagement of procurement specialist had a positive impact on finding the
best solutions to guiding project preparation and implementation.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


                                             23
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N/A

(b) Co-financiers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                           24
                                                            MONGOLIA
                                    MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                                                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


     (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

         Component Name                          IDA                              Korean TF                           TFSCB                           2nd Korean TF
                                                 Actual/      % of                     Actual/    % of                                % of                Actual/      % of
                                    Appraisal                         Appraisal                           Appraisal   Actual/Latest           Appraisal
                                                  Latest      Appr                      Latest    Appr                                Appr                 Latest
                                    Estimate                          Estimate                            Estimate      Estimate              Estimate               Appraisal
                                                 Estimate     aisal                    Estimate   aisal                               aisal               Estimate
A    Improving policy,
     regulatory, and
     institutional framework
     and the organizational
     structure of the statistical
     system,
A1   The review and
     improvement of existing         $60,000    $172,352.62   287      $60,000     $75,777.15     126.3    $20,000    $7,253.82       36.3
     institutional framework;
A2   Improving the relationship
     between data users and          $60,000    $169,773.90   283      $30,000     $103,659.93    345      $10,000    $10,338.72      103.4
     producers;
A3   Improving the data
     dissemination function and      $80,000    $45,323.24     57      $20,000     $64,200.66     321      $20,000    $7,949.45       397
     procedures;
A4   Strengthening human
                                     $60,000    $86,651.18    144      $30,000     $114,263.39    330      $20,000    $73,410.90      367
     resource capacity;
A5   Review and improvement of
     organizational structure of
                                     $60,000    $240,051.83   400      $20,000     $101,897.42    509.5    $20,000    $34,558.41      172.8
     the national statistical
     system.




                                                                                  25
                         Sub total     $320,000   714,152.77    223    $160,000    459,798.55    287.4    $90,000   $133,511.30   148.4
B    Strengthening the
     statistical infrastructure,
B1   Improvement and updating
                                       $110,000   $100,475.13   91      $40,000    $24,625.62    61.6     $20,000   $21,588.14    108
     of statistical registers
B2   Further development and
     improvement of
                                       $60,000    $41,170.64    68.6    $50,000    $45,542.00    91.1     $10,000   $14,123.35    141
     classifications and other
     standards
B3   Further development and
     improvement of sampling           $60,000    $32,294.22    54      $40,000    $0.00          0       $20,000   $17,931.51     70
     methods
B4   Improvement of skills in
                                       $60,000    $24,867.42    41.5    $40,000    $3,262.40      8.2     $20,000        0         0
     seasonal adjustment
B5   Improvement of skills in
     evaluating and improving          $80,000    $57,421.28    72      $30,000    0.00           0       $20,000        0         0
     data quality
B6   Improving questionnaire
     design procedures and
                                       $80,000    $14,774.76    18.5    $40,000    0.00           0       $20,000        0         0
     developing Master
     Questionnaire.
                           Sub total   $450,000   $271,003.45   60     $240,000    $73,430,02    30.6    $110,000   $53,643.00    48.8
C    Upgrading statistical
     operations (improving
     individual subject matter
     programs and
     methodologies as well as
     the existing data outputs),
C1   Full implementation of SNA        $100,000   $338,936.33   339     $60,000    $29,326.49    48.9     $10,000   $50,465.77    505
C2   Price statistics (including
     PPI, CPI and other relevant       $80,000    $64,104.16    80      $60,000    $21,091.69    35.2     $10,000   $56,453.67    565
     indices) and BOP statistics
C3   2010 Census preparation           $150,000    $4,051.65    2.7     $60,000    $94,774.29    158      $90,000   $18,717.02     24
C4   Economic statistics                                                                                                                  $207,837   $214,666   33
C5   Social statistics                                                                                                                    $442,163   $435,334    67
                           Sub total   $330,000   $407,092.14   123    $180,000    $145,192.47   80.7    $110,000   $125,636.46   114     $650,000   $650,000   100




                                                                                  26
D    IT Infrastructure and
     Equipment
D1   Preparation of an IT plan       $70,000    $106,805.14    153     $20,000        21578.96   108     $10,000   $86,775.24   868
D2   Procurement of computers
     and other equipment and
                                     $650,000   $485,527.25     75    $100,000           0        0      $80,000      $434      0.54
     establishment of an IT
     network
                         Sub total   $720,000   $592,332.39    82.3   $120,000    $21,578.96     18      $90,000   $87,209.24   96.9
E    Project Management.
E1   Consultants (Procurement
     and FM specialists, ad hoc
                                     $60,000    $143,554.34    239
     advisory services,
     translation)
E2   Audit Services                  $20,000    $13,449.68      67
E3   Goods (office equipment,
                                      $5,000     $1,987.44      40
     software, furniture etc.)
E4   Office Operating and
                                     $15,000     $9,400.14      63
     Maintenance costs
                         Sub total   $100,000   $168,391.60    168
                     Unallocated     $80,000
     Total Project Cost              $2,000,0   $2,152,972.3
                                                               108    $700,000        $700,000   100   $400,000     $400,000    100    $650,000   $650,000   100
                                        00           5

 The project cost in this table does not include in-kind contributions from TICA (estimated around $300,000).




                                                                                 27
   (b) Financing
                   Source of Funds                  Type of Cofinancing Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                                         (USD millions)         Estimate       Appraisal
                                                                                             (USD millions)       (%)
Borrower                                                                       0.00               0.00            0.00
International Development Association (IDA)                                    2.00               0.00           100.00
Korea Trust Fund                                                               0.70               0.00           100.00
Second Korea Trust Fund                                                        0.65               0.00           100.00
Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building                                   0.40               0.00           100.00
Turkish International Cooperation Agency                  In kind*             0.30               0.00           100.00
*Installed and operational as observed by the ICR mission in October 2014.




                                                                28
                                                        MONGOLIA
                                MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                                                        Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                          Table 2.1. Outputs by Component

  Component            Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                   Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
              A. Improving policy, regulatory, and institutional framework and the organizational structure of the statistical system
A.1 The review    • Evaluation of the existing statistical institutional framework.        • Intensive advanced level English training for selected
and               • Study tours to explore statistical institutional frameworks of         employees from different departments.
                  foreign countries (Germany).                                             • Elaboration of strategies to introduce rotation of employees.
improvement of
                  • Development of a strategy to improve the statistical system in         • Development of Concept of human resource development.
existing                                                                                   • National strategies for development of statistics 2011-2015
                  framework of international standards and preparation of a general
institutional     overview of a sound statistical system; development of a statistical     approved in 2011. Approval of Action plan to implement NSDS
framework         system model applicable in Mongolia                                      in May 2012.
                  • Development and strengthening human and technical resources            • Memorandum of Understanding signed with ministries and
                  and facilities that meet the requirements of timeliness and quality of   agencies.
                  primary data and provide consolidated management and methods             • Joint working groups established and action plan developed.
                  for the statistics staff at all levels.                                  • User seminar in 2011 (30 participants).
                                                                                           • Training for the staff of all levels statistical system organized
                                                                                           in 2011 (38 participants).
                                                                                           • Regional training (21 aimag, 329 soums and 9 villages, 334
                                                                                           statistical officers).
                                                                                           • National Statistical Workshop in 2010 and 2012 with 418 staff
                                                                                           from NSO, capital /aimag statistical department and divisions
                                                                                           and district statistical divisions.
                                                                                           • Statistical methodological guideline (2160) published.
                                                                                           • Training for bag and khoroo statistical officers organized in
                                                                                           2012 (20 aimag, 1578 officers).
                                                                                           • Training in administrative statistics. Training in official and
                                                                                           administrative statistics and common understanding of statistical




                                                                             29
  Component             Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                   Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                                                                                            methodology among government staff responsible for statistics.
                                                                                            Statistical methodological guideline published (2160 pieces).
                                                                                            • Adapted Global Assessment.
                                                                                            • AGA in 2013-2014 that contribute to evaluation of level of
                                                                                            conformity with accepted international and European standards,
                                                                                            incorporating the UN Fundamental Principles of Official
                                                                                            Statistics and European Statistics Code of Practice and defining
                                                                                            priorities for future international cooperation programs.
                                                                                            • Review of Law on Statistics to better incorporate UN
                                                                                            Fundamental principles of official statistics and the Mongolian
                                                                                            Code of Practice, reflect changes in the Mongolian society and
                                                                                            better satisfy users’ needs.

A.2 Improving      • General user requirements analysis and use the results for the         • User satisfaction surveys in 2012 and 2014. The reports
the relationship   improvement of the relevant subject matter areas for their program       produced and disseminated.
                   improvements.                                                            •Training for journalists/media people in 2010 (45
between data
                   • Design and assistance in conducting a user satisfaction survey to      representatives).
users and          get an impression of changes in user opinions.                           • User seminar in 2011 with 30 participants.
producers          • Organization of regular consultation workshops and seminars            • Training for staff of ministries and agencies in 2011 (22), 2012
                   upon releasing statistical publications to explain the results and the   (40) and 2013 (58). In total 120 representatives from ministries
                   use of principal indicators.                                             participated in various trainings.
                   • Staff training in line ministries in data analysis (realized in a      • Statistical library was re-established in 2013.
                   separate bilateral activity, financed by the German Association for
                   international co-operation (GIZ).
                   Design of a questionnaire for a marketing survey of user needs

A.3 Improving      • Development of a comprehensive and integrated dissemination            • Customer management system introduced at NSO.
the data           strategy and publications policy covering all printed reports and        • Customer relations policy approved in 2014.
                   web data that is in line with the international standards for data       • Two seminars by Destatis experts in 2011 (45 staff from NSO).
dissemination      dissemination.                                                           • NSO introduced common corporate standards of design and
function and       • Dissemination of data that was not previously published through        color for all products of NSO such as yearbook, bulletin,
procedures         new annual and monthly publications.                                     brochures, census results reports, business cards, presentations and
                   • Gradual development of a consistent style and layout for the           website.
                   various publications.                                                    • NSO‘s Data Dissemination Calendar includes a time of
                   • Preparation and implementation of a marketing strategy, so that        dissemination -11 am of the approved date of the month.




                                                                               30
  Component          Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)               Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                fees can be collected via the internet for access to electronic      • Applications for Smart phone users developed (Monstat, Ezstat).
                publications and datasets.                                           These applications have been installed to cell phones and
                • Workshop on data dissemination strategy with main focus on the     computers of assistants of MP. Monstat application now has 206
                publication of the census results to improve content and design of   books and printed products. In the 1st half of 2014, 14 new printed
                the website and introduce programs and upgrade software              materials have been added.
                applicable to national specifics.                                    • In order to enter SDDS, the IMF was requested to carry out
                                                                                     assessment.
                                                                                     • Marketing and promotion made through website; TV, emails,
                                                                                     newspapers and sending messages to the users of cell phone
                                                                                     service of Mobicom (with the cell phone numbers starting 9911,
                                                                                     9909). 11,000 users of cell phone service of Mobicom company
                                                                                     have obtained information on statistical products.
                                                                                     • A number of promotions developed in the forms of TV
                                                                                     advertisements, printed leaflets, and brochures and in infographic
                                                                                     formats.
                                                                                     • NSO website improved, with more features and news, websites
                                                                                     of aimags are in progress of renewal reflecting a single corporate
                                                                                     design.
                                                                                     • Metadata, microdata from several surveys, electronic versions of
                                                                                     published products such as yearbook and monthly bulletin placed
                                                                                     on the NSO website.
                                                                                     • www.1212.mn statistical dissemination website launched in
                                                                                     2012. www.1212.mn was updated with more data at aimag/capital
                                                                                     city, soum/district and bag levels.
                                                                                     • Online service to users is reaching the access of 187,157 calls in
                                                                                     the first 6 months of 2014.
                                                                                     • Offline version www.1212.mn (Devinfo) developed.
                                                                                     • NSO approved the list of indicators to be produced at local levels
                                                                                     (soum/district and bag/khoroo) in 2014-2016. Accordingly, NSO
                                                                                     will produce 346 indicators (previously 315).

A.4             • Assessment of the state-of-play and the needs of human resources   • Independent subdivision of Civil Service Council established
Strengthening   development.                                                         specifically for recruitment of statistical officers. This new
                • Development of human resource management strategy that             structure enables recruitment of qualified people with relevant
                includes performance management, career development, staff           statistical education and experience.




                                                                         31
  Component           Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
human resource   assignment and staff rotation.                                        • Center for Information, Training, and Advocacy established in
capacity         • Study visit to Germany to experience practice in developed          2013.
                 countries and get involved with on-the-job training.                  • Training needs evaluated. Center for Information, Training
                 • Study visit to South Korea to develop the HRM strategy.             and Advocacy designed a curriculum and 3-level training
                 • Study visit to Germany for Project Planning and Project Financial   modules based on this evaluation.
                 Management Training.                                                  • In 2011-2014 the following trainings provided to build
                                                                                       capacities in addition to trainings in specific statistical areas:
                                                                                       • Foreign relations training in 2011 (6 staff of Department of
                                                                                       International relations and cooperation).
                                                                                       • Quality management training in 2011 (20 NSO staff).
                                                                                       • Training for the staff of all levels of statistical system in 2011
                                                                                       (38 participants).
                                                                                       • Management and leadership training in 2012 (6 people)
                                                                                       • A seminar on the Action plan of official statistics development
                                                                                       for 2011-2015 in 2012 (20 staff).
                                                                                       • National Statistical Workshop in 2010 and 2012 involving 412
                                                                                       staff from all levels of statistical offices and divisions.
                                                                                       • Regional training (21 aimag, 329 soums and 9 villages, 334
                                                                                       statistical officers)
                                                                                       • Training for bag and khoroo statistical officers: 20 aimag, 1578
                                                                                       officers.
                                                                                       • In 2013 NSO jointly with the National University of Mongolia
                                                                                       organised the 2-level professional training for NSO staff and staff
                                                                                       from aimag statistical offices on social and economic statistical
                                                                                       methodology and technology applications. (35 staff from NSO
                                                                                       and other ministries and agencies).
                                                                                       • 5-level English training in 2011-2013 involving 312 learners
                                                                                       (198 ponline and 114 classroom training).
                                                                                       • Printed and disseminated professional statistical books and
                                                                                       manuals (9 types).
                                                                                       • The Monstat project resource centre developed, shared within
                                                                                       NSO management and maintained.
                                                                                       • Monstat project website developed.
                                                                                       • Local trainings organized by WB and MOF contributed to a
                                                                                       better understanding of relevant laws, regulations and guidelines,




                                                                          32
  Component               Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                   Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                                                                                              improvement of financial and procurement operations,
                                                                                              enhancement of professionalism of the project staff and sharing
                                                                                              of experience among WB-funded project staff in Mongolia.

A.5 Review and       • Assessment of state-of-play and review of existing organisational      • NSO set up teams of enumerators/researchers who will work
improvement of       structure and coordination of statistical activities.                    on a permanent basis. These enumerators carry out the household
                     • Update of Program for Official Statistics Development and its          socio-economic and labour force surveys.
organizational
                     Master Plan for approval.                                                • National Strategies for Development of Statistics (NSDS) 2011
structure of the     • Development of an organisational structure applicable to the           – 2015 developed. Approved by the Parliament in 2011. The
national             national specifics.                                                      action plan was approved by the Statistical Council.
statistical system   • Study visit to Germany to study organisational structures of           • Development of the NSDS (2016-2020).
                     selected countries and develop recommendations on how to
                     introduce appropriate structures applicable to national specifics.
                     • Training course for producers of administrative statistics at
                     ministries and governmental agencies.

                                                        B. Strengthening the statistical infrastructure
B.1                  • Preparation of annual publication on register data. Publish data on    • Updated and enriched indicators of BR database through
Improvement          the size distribution of local statistical units (and employment) by     collaboration with GDT and GASR.
                     Aimag and branch. Publish data as well on business “demography”,         • Comprehensive business register database created by linking
and updating of      covering the births and deaths of enterprises and local units, broken    agricultural self-employed and self-employed gold miners and
statistical          down by branch, size and Aimag.                                          through collaboration with GDT and GASR.
registers            • Participation in the International Roundtable on Business Survey       • Integrated farming business and Agricultural household
                     Frames.                                                                  registration system updated.
                     • Creation of integrated database system linking the register to         • Identified statistical units and developed BR management
                     databases for obligatory enterprise reports, with technical assistance   system that collects, renews, manages and services BR data. This
                     to help develop specifications for the linkage.                          is a basis for business surveys. The current BR management
                     • Work with the Ministry of Justice and the tax office to upgrade        system composes of three parts (statistical unit database which
                     the data for nongovernment organisations (NGOs).                         enables working on network, warehouse data base, automatic
                     • Development of procedures for updating the activity status and         checking & cleaning the data from external sources). Two of the
                     ISIC code of the NGOs.                                                   three parts are already completed, and the remaining one is on the
                     • Preparation of methodology to standardise terminology in               process.
                     questionnaires and reports.                                              • Household and population registration database updated based
                     • Development of more efficient procedures for register updating         on population census and administrative data.




                                                                                33
  Component            Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                   Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                  through better and closer cooperation with the Tax Administration.       • Meetings of the Wiesbaden Group on Business Registers-
                  • Improvement of the register by including turnover as an                International Roundtable on Business Survey Frames 4 times
                  additional characteristic.                                               (last one held in Vienna, Austria in September 2014.
                  • Investigating profiling procedures used by advanced NSO for
                  determination of appropriate reporting procedures for big and
                  complex enterprises.
                  • Conducting profiling of big and complex enterprises using these
                  procedures.
                  • Improvement of Household register by creating a database and
                  providing data confidentiality and security.
                  • \development of database by creating a household-based
                  registration system in agricultural statistics.
                  • Conducting special censuses and surveys ato reflect its result in
                  the business register.
                  • Exploration of possibility of continuation of mechanism for
                  enrichment and changes in the population database.
                  • Connect the population database with the base registration
                  database.
                  • Study visit to Finland to improve methods for population and
                  household register.
                  • Study visit to Finland to develop a population and household
                  registration booklet.
                  • Study visit to Finland for business register methods improvement.

B.2 Further       • Review and revision of classifications to be in line with the latest   • Approved Classification of Assets that incorporates
development and   versions of international standards and support survey areas in          Classification of financial and non-financial assets”, 2013 (SNA
                  implementing the revised versions.                                       2008).
improvement of
                  • Convert to ISIC 4.                                                     • Approved “Central product classification”, 2011 (UN Central
classifications   • Development of classification of the functions of government to        Product Classification Version 2.0).
and other         be used in national accounts.                                            • Classification of the purposes of non-governmental
standards         • Study visit to Germany for improvement of classifications              organizations”, 2011 (UN Classification of the Purposes of Non-
                  priority economic sector                                                 Profit Institutions Serving Households).
                                                                                           • International standards of industrial classification ISIC 4.0 is
                                                                                           used for GDP, IOT and SUT and updated classification from 3.0
                                                                                           to ISIC 4 for all economic sectors.




                                                                              34
  Component               Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                  Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                                                                                             • In 2012 ISIC 4.0, 3-level trainings for the staff of ministries
                                                                                             and agencies, local statistical officers and NSO staff. In total 71
                                                                                             people participated in the training.

B.3 Further          • Defining the required scope of sampling and sampling methods          • Interdisciplinary sampling team estaclished(6 staff).
development and      and train the MNSO staff in relevant courses in particular steps.       • TA visit from TurkStat.
                     • Review of opportunities for sampling taking into account planned      • Training of staff in sampling methodology jointly with
improvement of
                     improvements of the Statistical Register.                               UNSIAP in 2011 (25 staff).
sampling             • Training of staff (especially at the regional level) in sampling      • Training in methodology of sample survey in South Korea and
methods              methods.                                                                the University of Michigan, the USA (4NSO staff).
                     • Review the current suite of economic surveys to determine which       • Sampling designed for HSES, Labor force, Time use,
                     can be conducted on a sample basis without serious data loss to         SUT/IOT, Average salary, Copying with disasters, Social
                     users.                                                                  indicators surveys.
                     • Improvement of sampling in the household survey taking into           • A General guideline for sampling design prepared in 2014.
                     consideration the development of Household Register and the
                     specific of particular groups of the population.
                     • Study visit to Germany for Implementation of sampling methods
                     and training applications using registers.

B.4                  • Seasonal adjustment technique (such as X-12 ARIMA) for the            • Methodological guideline on seasonal adjustment developed
Improvement of       sub annual discrete estimates in all key sectors and activities (GDP,   and applied based on UNECE Seasonal adjustment guideline
                     output by activity, etc.).                                              using Demetra+.
skills in seasonal
                     • Development of methodology for the use of seasonal adjustment         • Seasonally-adjusted, quarterly GDP at current and constant
adjustment           for the estimation of GDP and CPI.                                      prices disseminated (2011).
                     • Recommendations on relevant software in seasonal adjustment
                     for the estimation of GDP and CPI.
                     • Study visit to Germany to improve skills in seasonal adjustment
                     application beside national accounts.

B.5                  • Development of quality model comprising quality concepts and          • Inter-departmental quality team established.
Improvement of       definitions, including the so-called output quality characteristics:    • Core quality documents approved: Quality policy document,
                     relevance, accuracy, timeliness, accessibility, interpretability and    Code of practice and a Guideline for writing a user-oriented and
skills in
                     coherence.                                                              producer oriented quality report.
evaluating and       • Development of quality policy providing leadership, a framework       • User oriented quality reports written for price survey and
                     for definition of quality objectives, a commitment to satisfying user   labour force survey.




                                                                                35
  Component            Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
improving data    needs, continual improvement and reengineering where major            • Workshop on quality management for NSO management and
quality           changes to existing processes are required.                           staff and specialists from ministries in charge of administrative
                  • Development of the following quality tools: quality and             statistics.
                  performance indicators and measurement systems, quality control       • NSO carried out the quality assessment of data produced by
                  systems, self-administered quality checklists and a program of        Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education and Science.
                  quality reviews.
                  • Implementation of quality policy including continual quality
                  improvement and a quality evaluation program.
                  • Training in quality awareness, principles and procedures
                  • Development of quality manual documenting concepts, policies,
                  procedures and responsibilities.
                  • Study visit to Germany to improve concepts and procedures of
                  data quality by the example of procedures in the host country
                  Germany.

B.6               • Development of questionnaire design guidelines for all types of     • Questionnaire design team established
Improvement of    questionnaires (paper, electronic, face to face interviews and        • Questionnaire “Household, population and social indicators
                  computer assisted telephone interviews).                              report” developed.
skills in
                  • Training in the use of questionnaire design standards to survey     • Guidelines for questionnaire design provided by Destatis
evaluating and    areas.                                                                translated. On this basis a standard questionnaire developed.
improving data    • Development of procedures of review for all existing                Consequently, appropriate changes introduced into all
quality           questionnaires for conformance to the standards prior to their use.   questionnaires used in official statistics nationally.
                  • Development of Master Questionnaire and necessary guidelines
                  for the use of it.
                  • Cross-sectional coordination of questionnaire design, generating
                  a master questionnaire and standards for social and economic
                  surveys.

    C. Upgrading statistical operations (improving individual subject matter programs and methodologies as well as the existing data outputs)
C.1 Full          • Completion of 2010 Supply and Use Tables (SUT), investigate         • Translation of the “SNA-2008” completed.
implementation    and analyse discrepancies in it, and document the research and        • Regional training courses on the Establishment Census and
                  findings involved in balancing the SUT.                               surveys to compile SUT and IOT organised in 21 aimags and the
of SNA
                  • Improvement of techniques involved in preparing QNA.                capital. Establishment census and other related surveys carried
                  • Training in SNA statistics (provide on the job training).           out.




                                                                            36
Component        Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                  Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
            • Establish SUT yearly and disseminate it to users.                     • The following key methodologies approved by NSO: (i)
            • Improvement in estimation of gross fixed capital formation.           methodology for estimation of annual & quarterly GDP by
            • Study the methods for estimating the size of the non-observed         production and final expenditure approach, at constant and
            economy.                                                                current prices; (ii) concept to compile SUT and IOT for 2010 was
            • Preparation of improved estimates of the size of the non-observed     developed and reviewed by the Methodological Standing Council
            economy in Mongolia.                                                    and the Board of NSO Chairman. The concept was approved by
            • Organization of study tours to learn about environmental              an NSO Chairman Order of 15th February 2011 (No. 01/26); (iii)
            accounting (“Green GDP”) as practiced in other countries.               methodology for institutional sector accounts; (iv) benchmarked
            • Improvement of coordination with balance of payments (BOP).           and rebased of NAs based on SUT (2005); (v) Compiled SUT &
            • Improvement of assessment of gross national income (GNI),             IOT, 2010 (9 times), including (a) SUT: 203 activities and 311
            including labour migration and remittances.                             products, aggregated into 68x55, 68x48, 48x32, 32x20, 20x20,
            • Consultation for the calculation of consumption of fixed capital      and (b) IOT: industry by industry matrices of 55, 48, 32 and 20;
            for the Government                                                      (vi) Annual & quarterly GDP by production and final
            • Supply and Use Tables (SUT) and Input-Output Tables (IOT) for         expenditure approach, at constant and current prices have been
            2010                                                                    estimated and disseminated; (vii) Seasonally adjusted QGDP has
            • GNI, labor migration and remittances                                  been estimated and disseminated; (viii) Re-estimated FISIM,
            • SUT concept of taxes, subsidies and consumption                       incorporated FISIM into IOT and GDP estimates and
            • Estimation and improvement of non-observed economy                    disseminated; (ix) according to SNA 2008 NSO has compiled
            estimation                                                              SUT for 2011, 2012 and related matrices; (x) NA dynamics has
            • Compilation of Production matrix (SUT)                                been updated according to SUT 2010, rebased and benchmarked.
            • Estimation of gross fixed capital formation, classification of        • Development of special release calendar for disseminating NA
            animals demand side and consumption of fixed capital                    estimations, including (a) user seminar on IOT and SUT was
            • Balancing of SUT-System and Improving the assessment of the           organised in 2013 involving officials from ministries, scholars
            gross national income (GNI)                                             and lecturers from universities and other interested users; and (b)
            • Improving economic statistic and practical questions of               NA dynamics was disseminated in August 2014.
            environmental accounting.                                               • Workshop on IOT in 30-31 October 2014.
            • Seasonal Adjustment method and application.
            • Improvement of sector accounts.
            • Study visits to Germany: Introduction of environmental
            accounting; Results of the implementation of Supply and Use tables
            and Input and Output tables; FISIM and Coordination with Balance
            of Payments; Compilation of Supply and Use Tables (SUT);
            Presentation of Results of implementation 1-18 and Improvement of
            institutional sector accounts, production side, capital and financial
            income and SUT compilation.




                                                                      37
  Component              Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                     Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
C.2 Price           • Consumer Price Index (CPI) – with the aim of expanding its               CPI:
statistics          scope: conduct additional research to update basket and weighs, and        • National CPI estimated on the basis of weighted average for
                    provide price statistics training for the local staff in charge of price   2010 HSES expenditure of 21 aimags and the Capital city.
(including PPI,     research.                                                                  • The national aggregate indices compiled for main 12 groups
CPI and other       • Producer Price Index (PPI) – improve the calculation of industrial       of COICOP and overall index.
relevant indices)   sector PPI, disseminate to the general public, improve the base            • Integrated soum level consumer price into the National index
and BOP             period survey for the calculation of sectoral PPI and expand its           of consumer prices. Furthermore, soum level consumer price was
statistics          scope                                                                      integrated into aimag level CPI.
                    • Review Price Statistics and develop a concept to improve Price           • A booklet on PPI guidelines, definitions, methodology and
                    Statistics.                                                                classifications.
                    • Methods of constant price data collection and calculation.               • Program for collecting prices of consumer goods and service
                    • Study visit to Germany:                                                  by tablets developed. Data are directly sent to the server and used
                    • Methods of constant price data collection and calculation (PPI)          for estimation of CPI.
                    • Improving price statistics
                                                                                               PPI:
                                                                                               • 2-stage surveys in industrial, retail trade and construction
                                                                                               sectors carried out.
                                                                                               • Monthly and quarterly PPI estimated (2010 base year, PPI for
                                                                                               2011 and 2012)
                                                                                               • Brochure on definitions, concepts and estimation methodology
                                                                                               and results
                                                                                               • Industrial production index estimated and disseminated.

                                                                                               Foreign trade index
                                                                                               Export and import price index estimated and disseminated on a
                                                                                               monthly basis.

C.3 2010 Census     It has been jointly agreed to cancel originally planned activities in the contract because of not being relevant. See paragraph 12 and
preparation         Annex 3 for the details.

C.4 Improving       • Assessment of current situation of results of surveys on informal        Estimates of the size of t non-observed economy improved.
Economic            sector of estimation of drug trade and of estimation of intentional        • Frame of NOE according to the OECD Manual defined.
                    distortion of business accounting.                                         •Concept of NOE survey and approved the methodology for
Statistics
                    • Discussions on estimation for the category and adjustments of            estimation of indicators and questionnaire developed.
                    national accounts.                                                         • Artisanal mining survey (20 aimags, 79 soums and 200 mining




                                                                                 38
  Component               Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                    Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                    • Integration in a survey and the estimation result in the GDP             sites)
                    estimation.                                                                • Survey on self-employed carried out in 2012.
                    • Measurement of contribution of the non-observed economy to the
                    national accounts (GDP) and its evolutions by economic sector by           Investment statistics
                    following direct and indirect methods.                                     • Survey carried out (9,859 enterprises and organizations).
                    • Identification of indicators and ratio to estimate VA of IS for          Results disseminated.
                    other years which will not conduct IS survey by economic sector.           • Investment statistical data integrated into NA estimation.
                    • Development of future concept of non-observed economy                    • Reports produced in English and Mongolian languages.
                    estimation.                                                                Environmental statistics
                    • Review of current status of statistical data in the field of             Within the environmental statistics framework and measurement
                    environmental accounting, evaluate and provide recommendations             of green economy, the following activities have been carried out:
                    for improvement.                                                           • NSO and the Ministry of Environment and Green Development
                    • Provision of information on recent methodological developments           (MEGD) signed the Memorandum of Understanding.
                    in environmental accounts, share knowledge and international               • NSO carried out self-assessment of current status of
                    practices for introducing new methodologies and improving data             environmental statistics. As a result, 175 indicators out of 492 are
                    quality and provide recommendations on how to improve quality of           currently produced.
                    environmental statistical data in a case of Mongolia.                      • “System of environmental and economic accounts-2012" and
                    • Recommendations and assistance in compiling physical flow                thoroughly studied translated into Mongolian. Experimental
                    accounts, monetary flow accounts, asset accounts and                       compilation of the Material flow account, which is the first basic
                    classifications in natural recourse that will be used at national level.   account of SEEA, underway.
                    • Experimental estimation of the environmental economic accounts           • 240 indicators to measure impacts of mining on economy
                    and provide countries’ experience on the issue (in cooperation with        (155), society (55) and environment (22) identified.
                    the Ministry of Nature, Environment and Tourism).                          • Within the framework of estimating green economic indicators,
                                                                                               30 sets of indicators identified to evaluate process of transition to
                                                                                               a green economy.
                                                                                               • The OECD manual "Towards Green Growth: Monitoring
                                                                                               Progress, 2011" translated into Mongolian language.
C.5 Improving       • Review of current status of official statistical data in the fields of   Household Survey
Social Statistics   education, culture and sciences, evaluate and provide                      • Sampling size estimated
                    recommendations for improvement.                                           • HSES to identify poverty indicators on annual basis, to monitor
                    • Improvement in knowledge on recent methodological                        implementation of the 1st objective of MDGs to reduce poverty
                    developments in education, culture and sciences and on                     and hunger and extract necessary data and calculations to
                    international practices for introducing new methodologies and              produce poverty map (25,656 households in 9 districts of
                    improving data quality.                                                    Ulaanbaatar and 22 aimags). Survey report produced. Poverty
                    • Development of standards and classifications in education,               indicators at aimag estimated using 2011 and 2012 household




                                                                                  39
Component         Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                     Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
            culture and science that will be used at the national level. Train staff    survey databases.
            in charge of education to acquire methodology to estimate lifelong
            learning indicators.                                                        Gender statistics
            • Publishing a special bulletin of education statistics.                    • Gender indicators’ framework approved.
            • Training to enhance capacity, knowledge and skills of the                 • Dynamics of statistical data on gender compiled.
            specialists responsible for wage and labour statistics.                     • The framework and design of gender statistical book finalized.
            • Matching the Mongolian labour and wage statistics with the                • Training on the framework of indicators of gender statistics and
            international statistics.                                                   methodology of estimation for officers from government
            • Development of methodology and methods for estimation of                  agencies responsible for the gender issues and representatives of
            labour cost index and identify the relevant indicators that will be         NGOs.
            used to estimate real GDP growth, labour market growth, and                 • Disseminated 50 indicators of gender statistics on the website
            labour productivity and produce data and information necessary for          of NSO www.1212.mn.
            developing “National standards and classifications for labour cost”.
            • Training to improve knowledge on recent methodological                    Education statistics
            developments in international migration and on international                • Classifications and methodology of education statistics
            practices of collecting, compiling and disseminating data on                developed.
            international migration.                                                    • Classifications of education of Mongolia corresponds with
            • Review of legal documents of relevant Mongolian organisations             UNESCO ICSED 2011. MNSO Questionnaire forms of labor and
            related to international migration and improve approaches to link           vocational and technical education renewed (24 forms in total).
            data.
            • Identification of sources of data and develop indicators for              International migration
            international migration.                                                    • MNSO approved principles of international migration statistics
            • Study data collection from border registration and its uses in            and methodology for estimation of indicators of international
            official statistics, define questions, indicators and definitions for the   migration.
            questionnaire of the Population Census 2011.                                • The Department of Population and Social Statistics (DPSS) is
            • Improve skill building in international migration statistics by           working on development on inter-agency database based on
            preparing a guideline for developing methodology of some                    population registration database.
            indicators of gender inequality on ownership and possession of
            asset, on income allocation, on wage and salaries. Determine data           Labor and wage statistics
            sources for the indicators and reflect Mongolian situation in gender        • Pilot labor cost survey carried out.
            statistics.                                                                 • Monthly average wage indicator and salaries of employees
            • Study visit to Germany on improving education statistics and              from sample survey of enterprises 2000-2013 calculated.
            International migration statistics, and improving gender statistics.        7 questionnaires approved by the Chairman’s Order (31 Dec.
            • Study visit to Finland on Labor and Wage Statistics                       2013, No 1/158). Average salary of employees estimated by
                                                                                        using data from Social Insurance Fund (average salaries of




                                                                          40
  Component            Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)                  Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
                                                                                          554,500 employees for 34,000 establishments).

                                                         D. IT Infrastructure and Equipment

D.1 Preparation   • Development of concept and structure of an information system         • IT Plan developed with the experts’ input for further analysis
of an IT plan     concept and make a detailed planning for the establishment of basic     by Mongolian expert.
                  register databases and an integrated geographic information system.     • Dissemination database developed and launched
                  • Equipment and software needed identified. Costing of                  at www.1212.mn (MONSIS, Korean Government)
                  implementation of the proposed system completed. Training and           • IT networking, security equipment and related software
                  specialisation needs of the IT staff to maintain the functioning of     procured and installed. 151 equipment items installed o/w 27 at
                  the proposed system identified.                                         NSO and 124 at local statistical offices.
                  • Establishment of three register data bases on population,             • Increased speed of Internet of capital, aimag and district
                  enterprises and agriculture units and train staff on database design.   statistical offices to 1 MB and later on to 2-3 MB.
                  • Development of a solution for a secure and safe integrated            • Tablets used for data collection (livestock, price, Social
                  network connection (e.g. VPN) that links between central, regional      indicators survey)
                  offices and agencies and determine the secure, reliable, continuous     • 31 Ipads distributed to capital, aimag and district statistical
                  activity and efficient utilisation of the network. Determine the        offices.
                  required hardware and software system to establish the planned          • 330 3G modems distributed to soum statistical officers.
                  network connection.                                                     • Flash of 2-4Gb provided to statistical officers.
                  • Evaluation and improvement of technological infrastructure, the       • Improved IT environment and work stations of capital, aimag
                  server and network system in the Mongolian statistical system.          and district statistical offices and better work environment.
                  • Preparation of a development plan on information security and         • 14 new programs developed and 9 programs renewed (3
                  confidentially.                                                         programs for tablets; 11 programs for online data entry).
                  • Specifications of a DB structure which meet the standards for the     • Android version of Ezstat and Monstat applications.
                  newly planned statistical production system and implement               • Further creation of national integrated online system of
                  economic sector’s DB;                                                   population and households.
                  • Objective of information standardisation and prepare guidelines
                  for information system standardisation of the proposed system (data
                  term, data domain, data code, data models).
                  • Assistance in application software of link the geospatial
                  information system with the Integrated Statistical Database.
                  • Select the equipment of advanced technologies necessary for
                  collecting statistical data to facilitate the work of census, survey
                  enumerators and interviewers.




                                                                            41
  Component        Project outputs (under the contract with Consortium)      Project outputs and activities implemented by the NSO
D. 2                                                                      Procurement of networking and security equipment.
Procurement of
                                                                          Procurement of network security software.
computers and
other equipment                                                           Procurement of Network management system/server
and                                                                       management system tool.
establishment of
an IT network




                                                                  42
                   Figure 2.1: Attribution and Results Measurement
 PDO
          Improve efficiency and effectiveness of the national statistical system of Mongolia to enable it to
          provide relevant, timely and reliable data for evidence-based policy making in support of Government’s
 Level
          MDG-based National Development Strategy.



          Access to information/dissemination
          1. User satisfaction rates increased (71%, exceeding end target value of 60%)
          2. Targeted statistical products easily accessible in the media, with metadata and interpretation of
          findings, including, but not limited to online statistical database 1212.mn newly created with metadata
          and disaggregated data of censuses and surveys; MONSTAT and EzSTAT applications for mobile
          phones and tablets are fully operational with uploaded statistical printed materials; corporate standard
          design is applied to all official publications; websites of central and local statistical offices improved
 Higher   in more user-friendly manner.
 Level    Coverage/ Accuracy/ Reliability:
Outcome   3. Internationally-accepted statistical techniques in collection, compilation and authenticity
          verification applied, and regular validations carried out for data sources and statistical products (for
          example, 4 international classifications and 11 methodologies developed and applied including ISIC
          4.0 and SNA 2008; data quality policy, quality report and code of practice were developed based on
          EU quality management practices).
          Timeliness:
          4. Statistical outputs released in a timely manner in accordance with internationally-accepted
          frequency and timeliness (i.e. according to IMF evaluation the NSO met all technical requirements to
          enter SDDS according to IMF standards and assessment).



 Inter-   1. Adequate policy and regulatory framework as well as effective institutional framework,
          management and human resources for statistics are in place.
mediate   2. Statistical infrastructure developed and operational.
outcome   3. Investment in physical infrastructure and equipment to facilitate the production and dissemination
          of data by statistical agencies is undertaken and adequately maintained.



          1. Mechanisms for effective interagency coordination established and operational; Mechanisms for
          effective dialogue with data users and providers operational; National Statistics Training Center
          (Center for Information, Training and Advocacy) established; NSO central and local level structure
          optimized and staff trained, including staff from relevant ministries and agencies.
 Key
Outputs   2. Registers compiled and maintained; Internationally accepted classifications, standards and
          methodologies adapted and used in data production; Standard questionnaire for survey developed and
          applied; Targeted surveys conducted, thematic statistical data developed and results disseminated.

          3. Capacity for physical operations adequate and well maintained; All staff at central office and
          regional offices have workstations with direct access to databases for analysis and tabulation.




          Provision of technical services (e.g. consultancies)
 Inputs
          Conducting training and workshops
          Procurement of ICT equipment and software




                                                      43
                               MONGOLIA
       MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

 Annex 3. Results achieved through the implementation of the Trust Funds co-
                       financed the MONSTAT project



1.     TF093575 by Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB) in the
amount of US$400,000 in period of August 2009 to October 2012 provided support to
NSO for the 2010 Census preparation so the census would be prepared and conducted
properly. The census was completed successfully in accordance with improved
methodology, and NSO retained the capacity to use modern methodology for conducting
the census for its ongoing and further activities.

2.      TF094696 by Korea Trust Fund (KTF) in the amount of US$700,000 in period
of September 2009 to December 2014 provided technical assistance for population census
through revision of methodological approaches, census design and coverage. Coverage of
household and business registries have been enriched due to technical assistance received
under the grant. Mongolian NSO improved the sampling design for poverty estimates and
started calculating poverty estimates at aimag level.

3.      Second TF098487 by Korea Trust Fund (KTF) in the amount of US$650,000
in period of September 2010 to December 2014 supported enhancement economic and
social and demographic statistics that were collected using surveys/censuses or
administrative reporting through reviewing and re-engineering the existing practice.
Content of data outputs and the corresponding data inputs in each selected subject matter
area were reviewed, re-examined and rationalized by identifying and eliminating indicators
that seemed inappropriate for a market economy and no longer needed, or that were not
published. Consulting services and training activities benefited from new infrastructure
already in place. The thematic areas covered were survey analysis in various domains such
as poverty, social protection, health, and labor market. Details are in Table 2.1 Outputs by
Components (C.4 and C.5), ICR pp.38-39.




                                            44
                               MONGOLIA
       MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                      Annex 4. Main Risks and Mitigation Measures



                          Table 4.1: Main Risks and Mitigation Measures
                                                                                                        Rating of
                                                  Rating of
  Risk factors         Description of risk                             Mitigation measures              residual
                                                    risk
                                                                                                          risk
II. Sector Governance, Policies and Institutions
 Sector Specific  Lack of political support      Substantial   National funding has increased in        Moderate
Risks (General    and commitment for a                         recent years, but this is insufficient
public admin.     modern statistical system,                   to upgrade performance while still
sector)           by not providing adequate                    maintaining all of the previous
                  legal, administrative or                     statistical activities. Hence, a
                  budgetary conditions.                        particular challenge will be to
                                                               maintain the political support for
                                                               better official statistics. One way of
                                                               ensuring sustainability is to provide
                                                               better outputs, which can be
                                                               achieved by improving the dialogue
                                                               between data producers and users.
                                                               NSO and other main partners of the
                                                               statistical system will need to
                                                               improve communications with
                                                               users, to build credibility and to
                                                               focus on providing outputs that
                                                               meet the needs of users. Further,
                                                               linking the project closely with
                                                               NDS and MDGs as well as with
                                                               other ongoing and planned
                                                               programs will create continuing
                                                               demand for better data.
                                                               Endorsement of the NSDS by the
                                                               National Statistical Council and its
                                                               adoption by the NSO is also an
                                                               indicator that these potential risks
                                                               could in fact be mitigated.
III. Operation-specific Risks
Technical Design Lack of external funding        Substantial   The task team has been                   Moderate
                   and lack of effective                       communicating with EC and Japan
                   coordination among                          for co-financing. Meanwhile the
                   development partners                        team obtained co-financing grants
                                                               from Korean Trust Fund and
                                                               TFSCB.
                                                               Signing a Memorandum of
                                                               Understanding (MoU) among
                                                               development partners and donors is
                                                               also an option that clearly
                                                               identifies relevant activities with
                                                               proper sequencing and clear
                                                               responsibilities to all involved
                                                               parties will make sure effective and
                                                               efficient coordination.



                                                      45
 Implementation     Resistance to change and      Substantial    The task team identified champions       Low
 Capacity And       lack of capacity in the                      of statistics within country and got
 Sustainability     present statistical system,                  their support. The team will also
                    due, for instance, to loss                   ensure involvement of all
                    of competent staff                           stakeholders from preparation to
                                                                 the end of implementation and
                                                                 obtain Government’s continuing
                                                                 support.
                                                                 As the implementing agency, NSO
                                                                 has demonstrated that it has the
                                                                 capacity to carry out statistical
                                                                 capacity building projects and to
                                                                 take the lead in technical and
                                                                 methodological forums for
                                                                 statistical policy. Implementation
                                                                 of the NSDS will ensure the
                                                                 improvement of staff skills and
                                                                 availability of better data in the
                                                                 short-term by utilizing existing
                                                                 sources. These short term
                                                                 improvements will bring credibility
                                                                 to the system and ensure
                                                                 sustainability.
 Financial          Overall                         Moderate     See PAD, Annex 7 for details           Moderate
 Management                                         (changed
                                                       from
                                                   Substantial
                                                  to Moderate
                                                     by ICR
                                                      team)
 Procurement        Overall                         Moderate     See PAD, Annex 8 for details           Moderate
                                                  (inserted by
                                                     the ICR
                                                      team)
 Social And          N/A                                          N/A
 Environmental
 Safeguards
 IV. Overall Risk (including Reputational Risks)
  Overall Risk               No reputational risk is anticipated.                                       Moderate


Source: PAD (Implementation section, part E, page 16; and Annexes 7 and 8)




                                                       46
                              MONGOLIA
      MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                  Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis
                     (including assumptions in the analysis)


N/A




                                      47
                               MONGOLIA
       MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

  Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


                                  Task Team members

                           Table 6.1: Task Team members

                                                                      Responsibility/
            Names                            Title             Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Mustafa Dinc              Sr. Economist/Statistician/TTL      GMFDR
Gerelgua Tserendagva      Procurement Specialist              GGODR
Ulziimaa Erdene           Team Assistant                      EACMF
Altantsetseg Shiilegmaa   Economist/Team member               GMFDR

Supervision/ICR
Altantsetseg Shiilegmaa   Economist/TTL                       GMFDR
Gerelgua Tserendagva      Procurement Specialist              GGODR
                          Financial Management
Dulguun Byambatsoo                                            GGODR
                          Specialist/Consultant
Gantuya Paniga            Senior Program Assistant            EACMF
Ulziimaa Erdene           Team Assistant                      EACMF
Olga Shabalina            Sr. Statistician                    DECDG
Adriana De Leva           Consultant                          DECDG
Christelle Signo Kouame   Program Assistant                   DECDG
Mustafa Dinc              Sr. Economist/Statistician/Co-TTL   DECDG




                                              48
                               MONGOLIA
       MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                          Annex 7. Beneficiary Survey Results



1.      A formal beneficiary survey has not been conducted, but a World Bank mission
visited Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia in late October 2014 and April 2015 as part of the ICR
preparation process to participate in the concluding project workshop with key stakeholders,
including government, parliament, consortium, development partners, media, academia
and other users, and to review implementation progress, and to conduct interviews with
beneficiaries. Both missions held meetings with relevant stakeholders and discussed the
project results and outcomes. In addition, the first mission has visited the regional statistical
office in Ovorkhangai aimag to observe the project results outside of the central office.

2.      The interviews with the beneficiaries of the MONSTAT project showed that the
results of the project were positive and confirmed the project outputs stated in Annex 2 and
observations in paragraph 53. The interviewed respondents considered that the project was
timely and important in bringing the statistical system of Mongolia up-to-date with the
internationally accepted standards and classifications and positively influenced their own
professional development and skill sets that provided them with a confidence in their own
capacity to operate in a more efficient and effective way.

3.       There have been noticeable changes in institutional structure of the state statistical
system of Mongolia. The project helped increasing reliability, timeliness and quality of the
statistics produced in the country, which, in turn, increased the trust and satisfaction in the
statistical system outputs. The NSO management was considering the ways and means to
sustain the gains and move forward further. It was mentioned that, nevertheless, there
would be a need for future support. Areas for improvements were identified in the Global
Assessment and elaborated further by the NSDS 2015-2020.




                                              49
                             MONGOLIA
     MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

            Annex 8. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                                 (if any)

NA




                                     50
                           MONGOLIA
   MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

  Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


               Strengthening the National

               Statistical System of Mongolia

               Twinning Partnership




                            MONGOLIA

MONSTAT: P113160 “STRENGTHENING THE NATIONAL
 STATISTICAL SYSTEM OF MONGOLIA” PROJECT




   BORROWER IMPLEMENTATION AND COMPLETION REPORT




                         Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia

                                May 2015




                                      51
CONTENTS

I. KEY PROJECT DATA
II. TWINNING PARTNERSHIP
III. OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME OF THE PROJECT
       3.1 Institutional development
       3.2 Data Dissemination and User Relations
       3.3 Human resource development
IV. STATISTICAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
      4.1 Statistical data quality improvement
      4.2 Statistical Classifications
      4.3 Sampling and standard questionnaire
      4.4 Business register
V. STRENGTHENING STATISTICAL SUBJECT MATTERS
VI. IT INFRASTRUCTURE
VII. CONCLUSION




                                     52
I. KEY PROJECT DATA

Duration

June 2009-December 2014

Partners:

   •   The World Bank
   •   National Statistical Office of Mongolia (MNSO)
   •   Federal Statistical Office of Germany (Destatis)
   •   Statistics Korea (KOSTAT)



Objective of MONSTAT project

   •   To improve efficiency and effectiveness of the national statistical system of
       Mongolia to enable it to provide relevant, reliable, and timely data for evidence-
       based policy making in support of Government’s MDG-based National
       Development Strategy (NDS).

Project Outcome Indicators

   •   Access to information/ dissemination
          o User satisfaction rates have increase in at least 60% by the Closing Date
          o By the Closing Date, targeted statistical products are easily accessible in
              relevant media, with metadata and interpretation of findings.
   •   Coverage/ Accuracy / Reliability
          o By the Closing Date, internationally accepted statistical techniques in
              collection, complication and authenticity verification are applied by the
              Recipient, and regular validations are carried out for data sources and
              statistical products.
   •   Timeliness

            – By the Closing Date, statistical outputs are released in a timely manner in
              accordance with internationally accepted frequency and timeframes




                                           53
Project components

   A. Improving policy, regulatory and institutional framework   and   the
      organizational structure of the statistical system
           • Institutional framework (e.g. statistical law)
           • Relations between data users and producers
           • Data dissemination
           • Human resources
           • Organisational structure of the system



   B. Improving Statistical Infrastructure
           • Registers
           • Classifications and standards
           • Sampling methods
           • Seasonal adjustment
           • Data quality
           • Questionnaire design

   C. Upgrading the Statistical Operations

            •   National accounts
            •   Price statistics
            •   Census preparation
            •   Social statistics
            •   Economic Statistics



   D. IT Infrastructure and Equipment

            •   IT Plan
            •   IT Network




                                         54
II. TWINNING PARTNERSHIP

The Monstat project was implemented by the National Statistical Office of Mongolia
through twinning partnership with the Consortium of the Federal Statistical Office of
Germany (Destatis) and Statistics Korea (KoStat). The Twinning agreement was signed in
August 2010 to provide expertise in a number of areas including institutional assessment,
development and capacity building, statistical infrastructure, statisatical domains and
informaton technology. There have been a number of advantages of implementing the
project through Twinning partnership. Twinning partnership ensures easy access to
expertise, sustainable relations between experts and long term collaboration between peer
organisations after the end of the project (Box 1).

     Box 1. Advantages of Twinning Partnership for Project Implementation

  Twinning concept

      •   The twinning is one of the principal tools that could be employed for the
          implementation of statistical capacity improvement projects in developing
          countries;
      •   Twinning provides necessary technical expertise in a “one-stop-shop” for
          the development of modern and efficient statistical systems with the
          structures, human resources and management skills.

  Features of twinning

      •   The project objective is clear;
      •   Relevant project components to achieve the objective have been identified
          and results and monitoring framework is established;
      •   Necessary ownership is in place and sufficient political support exists;
      •   The twinning partner has required expertise with necessary human resource
          capacity and is willing to work with the recipient.

      Principles of twinning

      •   The recipient country is in the leading role and selects the twinning partner;
      •   The selected twinning partner helps transferring the requested expertise that
          is in line with the internationally accepted standards;
      •   Twinning is a joint operation, in which each partner takes on
          responsibilities and commit themselves to achieving the agreed results;
      •   The twinning partners prepare a detailed work plan that could be modified
          during the implementation;
      •   Clear benchmarks are identified that allow for close monitoring of progress
          towards the final result;
      •   The achievements of the twinning should be maintained by the recipient
          country after the end of the project implementation.
      •   At the end of the project the new improved system must function under the
          sole responsibility and ownership of the recipient country.

                                            55
The twinning partnership has enabled the Destatis and KoStat to significantly contribute to
the project outcome and as a result the Consortium has provided best expertise not only
from partners, but also from diverse countries including Norway, Finland and organizations
such as Samsung, SK, Daewoo were involved in the areas of DB (KOSIS), ICT, GIS and
Network.

In total, 80 international experts provided consultancy in institutional assessment and
development of strategies, human resources, user relations and data dissemination,
business register, classifications, methodologies and information technology. During hte
project period, 84 activities were conducted; 35 study visits and 49 expert missions. In
total 406 participants from the NSO and regional offices were trained through twinning
partnership. 180 participants from the MNSO and regional offices were trained abroad
through twinnig partnership.

III. OUTPUTS AND OUTCOME OF THE PROJECT

3.1 Institutional development

Five areas were identified to strengthen institutional structure and management; a)
improvement of legal framework; b) improvement of producer and user relations; c)
improvement of data dissemination and access to data; d) strengthening human resources;
and e) organisational structure. The project facilitated to achieve the following outcome:

   •   A well-functioning national statistical system to contribute to Government’s
       decision-making process by providing timely and accurate data;
   •   Assistance to the Government in monitoring progress towards national
       development goals, including the PRSP goals and the MDGs through improved
       data collection, production and dissemination;
   •   Improved legal and institutional framework for sustainable statistical development
       including the capacities for strategic planning, human resources development and
       the application of Total Quality Management criteria and procedures throughout
       the institution;
   •   Improved coordination and liaising between all stakeholders (government
       ministries, national and regional statistical offices, donor agencies, the media,
       research institutes)
   •   Approval of the 2nd National Strategies for Development of Statistics (NSDS) 2011
       – 2015 and action plan for implementation;
   •   Improved inter-agency coordination and collaboration through capacity building
       trainings, workshops and signing Memorandum of Understanding with a number
       of ministries:
           o Ministry of Population Development and Social Protection
           o General Authority of State Registration
           o Bank of Mongolia
           o Ministry of Finance
           o Ministry of Economic Development
           o Ministry of Environment and Green Development


                                            56
           o Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism
           o Ministry of Health
           o Customs Authority
   •   NSO has had the Adapted global assessment and is working on development of
       the next NSDS.

3.2 Data Dissemination and User Relations

The baseline survey on user satisfaction was conducted in 2010 and showed the satisfaction
rate of 47%. The following surveys were conducted in 2012 and 2014 and the customer
satisfaction rates were increased to 61, 3% and 71% respectively.

www.1212.mn statistical data dissemination website was launched in 2012. The website
has metadata, raw data of some surveys, electronic versions of published products such as
yearbook and monthly bulletin. In 2014 MNSO has enriched www.1212.mn website with
more data at aimag/capital city, soum/district and bag levels. Applications for Smart phone
users were developed (Monstat, Ezstat). These applications have been installed to cell
phones and computers of assistants of MP. Monstat application now has 206 books and

NSO has met all criteria of GDDS and is now making efforts to enter SDDS. The experts
from IMF have conducted assessment for entering SDDS. The recommendations show that
there are several legal provisions that need to be modified in order to enter SDDS. Also,
the entrance to SDDS depends of the data release by the Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Mongolia. In regard to NSO, it will achieve all criteria of SDDS by September 2015.

Other outcome of the project in this area include increased data available for policy making
and monitoring, increased awareness of importance of statistical data and increased use of
data.

                                Table 3.1 Access to Data


Access stat. products                        2012             2013           2014 I-X

Printed products dissemination (pieces)      11 600           11 600         5150

Yearbook                                     2 000            2 000          2000

Monthly bulletin                             4 800            4 800          3150

Monthly brochure                             4 800            4 800

The number of users                          2 820            4 123          2850

By visit                                     2200             923            1070



                                            57
By letter of request                           314            351             101

By email: information@nso.mn                   306            341             277

1212 telephone inquiry                         253 / X-XII/   2 508           1403

Online service                                 118 413        203 372         300 992
Access of users to www.nso.mn                  98 049         90 102          159585

Access of users to www.1212.mn                 20364 /VIII- 113 270           141407
                                               XII/
International organizations                    14             14              14



3.3 Human resource development

Monstat project contributed to staff capacity building tthrough trainings in statistical
concepts and methods, establishment of Center for Information, Training and Advocacy,
establishment of library, printing of books and manuals and creation of professional
development programs in statistics. As a result, staff work environment improved, their
satisfaction with work environment and career prospects was increased and staff retention
rate has improved. More and more competent graduates are interested to work at national
statistical system. However, staff workload has remained high and staff salary still low
compared to salaries of private sector.

During the project period nine types of professional books and manuals were developed
and printed out.

                 Table 3.2 Trainings by NSO provided through Monstat

Subject areas        2010      2011        2012          2013          2014        TOTAL

Institutional        529       196         456           1713                      2894
framework
Statistical          -         116         -                                       116
infrastructure
Statistical          1528      -           76            33                        1637
operations
TOTAL                2057      312         532           1746                      4647

( Mongolia)
Foreign trainings              41          21            12            6           80



                                           58
IV. STATISTICAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT

The main outcome of the statistical infrastructure development was the application of
internationally accepted classifications, sampling methodology, standard questionnaire and
data quality standards to all subject matter components of the project.

4.1 Statistical data quality improvement

During the project implementation period NSO has developed three documents for data
quality management which are based on EU Code of Practice and other relevant quality
documents. The systematic introduction of quality management system in the NSO has
served as the foundation for improving evidence based decision making processes of
government institutions, businesses and citizens of Mongolia, ensuring transparency of the
Government, civic engagement and inclusiveness in decision making process, enabling the
Government to better monitor progress towards national development goals and increasing
user satisfaction. The quality criteria introduced in these documents cover data relevance,
accuracy, timeliness, punctuality, accessibility and clarity and comparability and coherence.
The results of the introduction of the quality management system include increased
knowledge, awareness and skills of NSO staff, ministries and other data providers on
quality management and improved supply of timely and reliable data to users.

                      Table 4.1 Quality team composition at NSO


                                   Quality team
                               Team leader (Head of PICD)

                   Secretary
             (Senior officer of PICD)




      PSSD (4)            MESD (3)
       Deputy              Deputy          PAMD (3)             PICD (3)
     director of         director of
        PSSD,                               Head of           statistician,
                           МESD,                                 senior          DPTD (1)
                                             ITAC,
       head of                                                 officer-2,         officer
                         Head of
        PHCB,           ESD, senior      statistician-2         officer-1
      officer-2           officer




                                            59
                       Table 4.2 Quality management framework

       Core documents for quality management framework of
                            Mongolia
                                                                     Statistical outputs
   Coordination of the NSS           Statistical processes
                                                                        and service
 • Independent official            • Sound methodology,           • Relevance
   statistical activities          • Appropriate statistical      • Accuracy and
 • Mandate for data                  procedures                     reliability
   collection                      • Non excessive burden         • Timeliness and
 • Adequacy of staff and             on respondents                 punctuality
   financial resources             • Cost effectiveness           • Coherence and
 • Commitment to quality                                            comparability
 • Statistical confidentiality                                    • Accessibility and
 • Impartiality and                                                 clarity
   objectivity




4.2 Classifications

During the project implementation period NSO has developed and applied the following
classifications and Statistical infrastructure and operations

   •    Classification of Assets that incorporates Classification of financial and non-
        financial assets”, 2013 (SNA 2008)
   •    “Central product classification”, 2011 (UN Central Product Classification (Version
        2.0)
   •    Classification of the purposes of non-governmental organizations”, 2011 (UN
        Classification of the Purposes of Non-Profit Institutions Serving Households)
   •    ISIC 4.0 is used for GDP, IOT and SUT
   •    Updating classification 3.0 to ISIC 4 for all economic sectors.

4.3 Sampling and standard questionnaire

NSO established the interdisciplinary sampling team and trained the staff in Germany,
South Korea, Turkey and the USA. Jointly with the SIAP, NSO also organized sampling
training to the staff in which 25 staff participated. As a result, sampling for surveys was
designed; HSES, Labour force, Time use, SUT/IOT, Average salary, Copying with




                                            60
disasters, Social indicators survey. In 2014 a general guideline for sampling design was
prepared.

A general guideline for questionnaire design was developed and used to make stepwise
appropriate changes into all questionnaires used in official statistics nationally.


4.4 Business register

NSO made significant progress to improve business register (BR). It has updated and
enriched indicators of BR database through collaboration with General Department of
Taxation (GDT) and General Authority for State Registration (GASR). As a part of work,
it identified statistical units and developed BR management system that collects, renews,
manages and services BR data, which is the basis of survey for businesses. The current BR
management system composes of three parts (statistical unit database which enables working
on network, warehouse data base, automatic checking & cleaning the data from external
sources). Two of the three parts are already completed, and the remaining one is on the
process.
One of the signification progress made by NSO is updating of Household and population
registration database

V. STRENGTHENING STATISTICAL SUBJECT MATTERS

The main outcome of the component was development and application of internationally
accepted methodologies for economic and social statistics and increased outputs of reliable
statistics by consolidating and strengthening existing surveys and administrative sources,
and by designing and conducting new data-generating activities. The below statistical
methodologies were developed and applied:

SNA:
       •   Methodologies for institutional accounts, GDP and QGDP;
       •   Annual & quarterly GDP by production and final expenditure approach, at
           constant and current prices
       •   The concept to compile SUT and IOT for 2010
       •   Benchmarked and rebased of NAs based on SUT (2005)
       •   Compiled SUT & IOT, 2010 (9 times)
       •   Seasonally adjusted QGDP
       •   Re-estimated FISIM, incorporated FISIM into IOT and GDP estimates and
           disseminated.
       •   Compiled SUT for 2011, 2012 and related matrices in line with SNA 2008.
       •   NA dynamics has been updated according to SUT 2010, rebased and
           benchmarked.
       •   NA dynamics was disseminated in August 2014.




                                            61
CPI:

         •   National CPI estimated on the basis of weighted average for 2010 HSES of 21
             aimags and the Capital city.
         •   The national aggregate indices compiled for main 12 groups of COICOP and
             overall index
         •   Integrated soum level consumer price into the National index of consumer
             prices.


PPI:

         •   A booklet on PPI guidelines, definitions, methodology and classifications and
             results
         •   2-stage surveys in industrial, retail trade and construction sectors
         •   Monthly and quarterly PPI estimated (2010 base year, PPI for 2011&2012)

Other:

         •   NOE according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
             Developments (OECD) Manual
         •   Gender indicators’ framework
         •   Classifications and methodology of education statistics in accordance with
             UNESCO ICSED
         •   Principles of international migration statistics and methodology

VI. IT INFRASTRUCTURE

KoStat has provided consultancy service to develop IT plan and technical specifications of
the network security equipment. The network security equipment was procured through
open tender and the supplier was IT Zone, Mongolia.

         •   2013.12.25 – 2014.1.17 Equipment was installed at NSO; 10 equipment for
             sustainable security system and 17 equipment for network infrastructure.
         •   2014.1.20 –1.31 Jointly with engineers of “IT Zone Co. Ltd” installation was
             carried out at the capital city statistical office, statistical officers of 8 districts
             and 4 aimags and relevant connection was made.
         •   2014.2.4 –2.26 the installation and connection was carried out by NSO
             engineers at remaining 17 aimags.

Of 151 equipment 27 were installed at NSO and 124 were installed at aimags, capital city
and districts. As a result of installation of integrated IT security system the following
benefits occurred:




                                                62
       •   Improved infrastructure for future introduction of efficient, relevant and
           advanced technology at every stage of statistical operations;
       •   Created an opportunity to transfer to data processing programs to online
           programs;
       •   Enabled transfer of data with high level of data security and confidentiality in
           line with international standards;
       •   Enabled real-time transfer and exchange of statistical data
       •   Created supporting environment for e-governance, paperless technology;
       •   Ensures possibility to access internal network and work from any place with
           Internet connection; and
       •   Provide technical support to local statistical offices for computer and technical
           maintenance and service.

Integrated IT system with high level of confidentiality and security enables the following
benefits:

   •   The system predicts data download, copy and transfer using mobile equipment
   •   Anti-virus /attack system to prevent the system from outside attack
   •   Carry out monitoring and reports using Solarwinds system.

                           Figure 6.1 Integrated IT network system

    Created integrated IT network system and security system at NSS Mongolia




                                            63
 Figure 6.2 Internet speed increase of aimag statistical divisions

The Internet speed of local statistical offices




                              64
VII. CONCLUSION

A great progress has been made to modernize national statistical system of Mongolia. As
a result, NSO has become internationally recognized modern statistical organization at
global level. It is now the member of UNSD, serves in several Steering committee and
technical experts’ committees of regional statistical organizations. Partnerships have been
established with statistical offices of developed countries including the Destatis, KoStat,
TurkStat, Norway Stat, Fin Stat and so on. It has grown as one of international consultant’s
service providers.

More and more staff from NSO participates in international conferences and makes
presentations. NSO is a co-founder of Ulaanbaatar city group for economies based on
natural resources.

The sustainability of the project outcome lies with its stable leadership and management
and staff capacities. The NSO is distinguished with longer term served management and
staff among state organizations. Staff retention is high and an increasing number of
graduates and job seekers apply to work in the statistical system.

One of key drivers for sustainability is political support. NSO functions under the
Parliament of Mongolia which ensures its leadership stability and support for strategy and
program implementation.

Despite progress, there are a number of areas for improvement. These areas have been
reflected in the global assessment conducted in 2013-2014.

It has been stated entrance into the SDDS has not achieved before closure of the project. It
may be considered as a risk to the project.




                                            65
Contacts

National Statistical Office of Mongolia

Mr. Sonomtseren Mendsaikhan
Chairman
Government Building III
Baga toiruu -44,
Ulaanbaatar -11
Mongolia
Tel: +976 11 323118
E-Mail: monstat@nso.mn
Website: www.nso.mn


The World Bank Mongolia

Ms. Altantsetseg Shiilegmaa
Country Economist
5th Floor, MCS Plaza Building
Seoul Street-4
210644 Ulaanbaatar
Mongolia
Tel: + (976) 70078214 ext. 214
Email: ashiilegmaa@worldbank.org
Website: www.worldbank.org


Federal Statistical Office of Germany

Ms. Simone Koll
Project Leader
Gustav-Stresemann-Ring 11
65189 Wiesbaden
Germany
Tel: +49 611 75 4281
E-Mail: simone.koll@destatis.de
Website: www.destatis.de




                                          66
                              MONGOLIA
      MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

     Annex 10. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


NA




                                      67
                               MONGOLIA
       MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia

                     Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents


•   Project Appraisal Document May 15, 2009
•   Aide Memoires of Implementation Support Missions
•   Implementation Status and Results Reports December 2009, January 25 2011, April
    5, 2012, March 27, 2013, November, 29, 2013, June 24, 2014, January 28, 2015
•   MONSTAT project progress reports, prepared jointly by the NSO and Consortium
•   Mid-Term review of the implementation of MONSTAT June, 2015
•   Grant Agreement dated June 26, 2009
•   Mongolia Country Partnership Strategy 2013-2017
•   Report on the Special Data Dissemination Standard Assessment Mission (October
    20–31, 2014) prepared by Paul Austin, Noriaki Kinoshita, and Peter Bradbury. IMF
    Statistics Department, December 17, 2014
•   Adapted Global Assessment Report August 2014
•   NSO of Mongolia ICR May 2015
•   MONSTAT project outcomes video (to be posted on Mongolia CMU website )
    http://youtu.be/NMFi9wTdRZk
•   Bank Guidelines and Procedures (OPCS ICRR Guidelines, August 2006. Updated
    July 22, 2014, ICR presentations, including the IEG)




                                         68
                        MONGOLIA
MONSTAT: Strengthening the National Statistical System of Mongolia
                            MAP




                               69
