 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14885

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 12/30/2015

               Country: Mongolia
             Project ID: P113160                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Monstat:                      Project Costs (US$M):                       3.1                  3.9
                         Strengthening The
                         National Statistical
                         System Of Mo
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        2.0                 2.15
      Sector Board:      Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):                        1.1                 1.75

          Cofinanciers: Korea Trust Fund           Board Approval Date :                               06/12/2009
                        (KTF), Trust Fund for              Closing Date:           12/31/2014          12/31/2014
                        Statistical Capacity
                        Building (TFSCB)
         Sector(s):     Central government administration (100%)
         Theme(s):      Managing for development results (63%); Economic statistics; modeling and forecasting
                        (20%); Other economic management (10%); Administrative and civil service reform (5%);
                        Other public sector governance (2%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 5), the objectives of the project were “to improve efficiency
    and effectiveness of the national statistical system of Mongolia to enable it to provide relevant, timely and reliable
    data for evidence-based policy making in support of Government’s MDG-based National Development Strategy
    (NDS).”

    According to the Financing Agreement (p. 5) of June 26, 2009, the objectives of the project were “to improve the
    efficiency and effectiveness of the Recipient’s national statistical system to enable it to provide relevant, timely
    and reliable data for evidence-based policy making in support of the Recipient’s National Development Strategy.”

    This review will use the objectives as stated in the Financing Agreement as the basis for validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    The project consisted of five components.

    Component A: Improving policy, regulatory, and institutional framework and the organizational stru cture of the
    statistical system (appraisal estimate US $0.57 million, actual US$1.33
    million): This component was to finance the review and improvement of the existing institutional framework, the
   relationship between data users and producers, the data dissemination function and procedures, human resource
   capacity, and the organizational structure of the national statistical system.

   Component B: Strengthening the statistical infrastructure (appraisal estimate US $0.80 million, actual US$0.39
   million): This component was to finance the improvement and updating of the statistical registers; further
   development of classifications, other standards, and sampling methods; improvement in seasonal adjustments
   and evaluation skills; and enhancement of data quality.

   Component C: Upgrading statistical operations , i.e. improving separate programs , methodologies and the
   existing data outputs (appraisal estimate US $0.62 million, actual US$1.32 million): This component was to
   finance the full implementation of the System of National Account, price statistics, and the preparation of the
   2010 Census.

   Component D: IT Infrastructure and Equipment (appraisal estimate US $0.93 million, actual US$0.70 million):
   This component was to finance the preparation of an information technology (IT) plan and the establishment of
   an IT network for the national statistical system.

   Component E: Project Management (appraisal estimate US $0.10 million, actual US$0.17 million): This
   component was to finance project implementation and daily administrative work, including monitoring and
   evaluation (M&E) activities.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:


   Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$3.1 million. Actual cost was US$3.9 million due to exchange
   rate changes between SDR and USD. The project team stated that, since the project was designed to support
   the implementation of the National Strategy for the Development of Statistics, more emphasis was given to the
   activities planned under components A and C. Therefore, resources disbursed under components A and C were
   higher than appraisal estimates, while resources disbursed under components B and D were lower than appraisal
   estimates. The team did not clarify why these two components (A and C) were considered more relevant to the
   National Strategy.

   Financing: The project was financed by:

            A US$2.0 million IDA credit. Due to favorable exchange rate development, the value of the IDA credit
             increased to US$2.15 million, which was fully disbursed.
            A Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building grant of US$0.4 million, which was fully disbursed as
             planned.
            Two Korea Trust Fund grants in the amount of US$0.7 million and US$0.65 million, fully disbursed as
             planned.
            In-kind support from the Turkish Development Cooperation Agency in the form of printing equipment, in
             the amount of US$0.3 million.

   Borrower Contribution : There were no planned or actual contributions by the borrower.

   Dates: The project was restructured on December 26, 2013 to reallocate undisbursed funds from the
   “unallocated category” to valid project expenditure categories under all project components, in order to complete
   the implementation of remaining project activities. The project closed as planned in December 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: Prior to appraisal, Mongolia had developed a National Development Strategy for the period 2007 to
   2021. The goals of this strategy were: i) achieving the Millennium Development Goals; ii) developing an
   export-oriented, high-tech, knowledge-based economy; iii) strategically exploiting minerals to increase savings
   and growth and develop a modern processing industry; iv) developing regions and infrastructure to reduce
   urban-rural disparities; v) stop imbalances in the eco-system; and v) uniting political democracy and developing
   an accountable system without red tape and corruption. In order to monitor progress towards these objectives,
   Mongolia needed to strengthen its statistical system.

   Mongolia has made and continues to make efforts to develop a statistical system to produce and disseminate an
   increasing variety of data that meets user needs and informs decision-making within the government and
   community. At appraisal the objectives of the project were in line with the National Strategy for Development of
   Statistics (2006-2010), which was developed and approved by the Parliament in 2006. It provided a roadmap to
   improve the capacity of the National Statistics Office (NSO) and other agencies responsible for data collection,
   dissemination, monitoring and evaluation. A more recent, updated National Strategy for Development of
   Statistics is currently being finalized. The objectives were also in line with the Bank’s Interim Strategy Note of
   2009 to strengthen the NSO to produce reliable, timely and good quality data in order to allow for the monitoring
   of key poverty and development indicators. The objectives remained relevant to the Bank’s current Country
   Partnership Strategy (2013-2017), which supports more transparent and citizen-oriented public management
   through improved data and e-government.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial: The relationship between planned activities and intended outcomes was logical and plausible.
   Activities supporting the development of an appropriate legal environment and mechanisms for the interaction of
   statistical institutions, improving the organizational structure of the national statistical system, enhancing the
   relationship between data users and producers, strengthening data dissemination functions and procedures, and
   strengthening human resource capacity are likely to lead to efficient and effective national statistical system.
   Activities to enhance critical elements of the statistical infrastructure such as registers, compliance with
   international statistical techniques, and standards for timeliness and frequency of statistical outputs are likely to
   lead to the production and availability of timely, relevant, and reliable data.

   The choice of lending instrument was appropriate, as the project was under the umbrella of Statistical Capacity
   Building (STATCAP), a newly available lending vehicle aiming to improve country statistical capacity through a
   sector-wide approach to make investments in statistical capacity easier and more effective.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

        Neither the PAD nor the ICR include a definition for "efficiency and effectiveness." Outcomes are therefore
        discussed here in terms of the provision of relevant, timely, and reliable data for evidence-based policy
        making.

        Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Recipient’s national statistical system to provide relevant ,
        timely, and reliable data for evidence -based policy making: Substantial

        Outputs:

            Infrastructure was improved to allow for the introduction of efficient, relevant and advanced technology
             at every stage of statistical operations. An IT plan and technical specifications for network security
             equipment were developed. An IT network security system was fully installed and is operational.
            A System of National Account to produce timely, reliable national accounts in line with internationally
             accepted methodologies was fully implemented as planned.
            The calculations for the consumer price index and producer price index were improved. Also, export
             and import price indices were estimated and disseminated on a monthly basis as planned.
            The 2010 Census was prepared and successfully conducted and in accordance with a new
             methodology, as planned.
            157 different types of equipment such as workstations, IT networking, security equipment and related
             software were installed. All NSO staff at central and regional levels now have workstations with direct
             access to databases, achieving the target.
            The capacity of NSO management and staff at national and sub-national levels was improved through
             organizational changes and comprehensive training, achieving the target.
            A new business register system and business register management system were developed.
             Internationally accepted classifications, standards and methodologies were adapted and used in data
             production. A standard questionnaire for surveys was developed and applied. Targeted surveys were
             conducted, thematic statistical data developed and results disseminated as planned.
            Internationally accepted statistical techniques for the collection, compilation, and authenticity verification
             of data were applied and regular validations for data sources and statistical products were implemented,
             achieving the target of 100% adaptation of internationally accepted classifications and standards.
             Specifically, four international classifications and 11 methodologies were developed and have been
             applied as planned.
            New internationally accepted classifications and methodologies that enhance coverage and accuracy of
             official data, as well as a revision policy, were developed and adopted. Regular check-ups to ensure
              quality were conducted, achieving the target.
             The NSO developed and put in place mechanisms for effective interagency coordination, and a
              mechanism for effective dialogue with data users and providers was made operational. A National
              Statistics Training Center was established, and 120 staff from various agencies were trained in
              coordination and data sharing. Also, training for media on how to use statistical information was
              conducted. 4,647 staff within the NSO were trained in different areas such as statistical concepts and
              methods as planned.
              A statistical library for users was re-established in 2013, and a hotline service became functional as
              planned.

        Outcomes:

        Timeliness (meeting frequency and timeliness guidelines ):
           Statistical outputs are now released in a timely manner in accordance with the Special Data
            Dissemination Standard’s (SDDS) internationally accepted frequency and time frames, achieving the
            target of submitting statistical data at SDDS. The ICR does not state specific statistical outputs or
            specific time frames. The SDDS aims to support IMF members that have, or might seek, access to
            international capital markets in the provision of their economic and financial data to the public. It
            measures four dimensions: i) coverage, periodicity, and timeliness of data; ii) access by the public; iii)
            integrity of the disseminated data; and iv) quality of the disseminated data.
           Real-time transfer and exchange of statistical data, e-government, and paperless technology have been
            implemented

        Reliability (regular validation and verification of data ):
          The transfer of data with high-level security is now in line with international standards.
          An IMF mission concluded that the NSO has met almost all technical requirements to enter the SDDS,
             including standards for data integrity.

        Relevance (availability of important new statistics ):
          User satisfaction, derived from a regular Customer Satisfaction Survey with results regularly published
            on the NSO website, increased from 46.7% in 2010 to 71.0% in 2014, surpassing the target value of
            60%.
          The ICR states that statistical products are readily available, although it does not list specific products.
            A statistical data dissemination system was developed and is operational. Data, including micro data,
            are publicaly available through a variety of channels such as the internet and smartphone and tablet
            applications, achieving the target.
          The ICR does not provide concrete examples of the application of higher quality, relevant statistical data
            to evidence-based policy making.

5. Efficiency:

    Substantial: Neither the PAD nor the ICR include a traditional economic efficiency analysis, as precise
    quantitative rates of return cannot be determined for this project. The PAD (p. 18) states that it is not possible to
    conduct a cost-benefit analysis for this project because national statistical offices have little significant cost
    recovery. The PAD identifies three main sources of benefits: i) improvements in the efficiency of statistical
    operations and agencies may lead to broader coverage of data and higher-quality data from given levels of
    expenditure; ii) better data will enhance the potential for evidence-based decision making at policy, program and
    project levels; and iii) significant costs of missing or inaccurate data are addressed. These projected benefits
    materialized.

    The project achieved its targets through efficient use of project resources. All project activities were implemented
    and completed within the originally planned time period, closing on schedule despite some initial delays. There is
    qualitative evidence of cost-effective implementation. After initial minor delays, the pace of disbursement and
    implementation was stable across the project's lifetime. The project put in place a twinning arrangement between
    the NSO and the national statistical offices of Korea and Germany, a cost-effective alternative to hiring consulting
    firms or individual consultants as it allowed for maximizing consolidation (and therefore limiting the number of
    procurement packages), providing just-in-time implementation support for the procurement of complex IT
    systems, and reducing implementation transaction time and costs (ICR, p. 23). Procurement and financial
    management challenges were addressed promptly (see Sections 9b and 11b), indicating efficient use of project
    resources. Efficiency is therefore rated Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :
                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                        No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial, given the importance of effective statistical systems for decision
   making and monitoring progress towards development objectives. Relevance of design is also rated Substantial,
   given appropriate selection of activities to achieve progress toward the development objectives. Achievement of
   objectives is rated Substantial. Efficiency is rated Substantial due to qualitative evidence of cost-effective project
   implementation. These ratings are indicative of only minor shortcomings in the project's preparation and
   implementation, and therefore the outcome rating of Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The government continues to be committed to the objectives of the project and is finalizing the National Strategy
   for the Development of Statistics for 2015-2020. Some of the project’s achievements have already been
   institutionalized, and the NSO continues to be involved in the statistical component of the Bank’s Smart
   Government Project (P130891). Achievements made under the project are likely to be sustainable due to the
   harmonization of statistical legislation with international recommendations, modified organizational structure,
   improved management capabilities, introduction of several internationally accepted classifications, and strong
   improvement in capacity. Also, the project involved and trained a wide range of users and producers, which
   strengthened the user-producer dialogue and improved data dissemination. Mongolia has also become an
   elected member of the UN Statistical Commission. This international exposure will be a strong incentive to
   ensure the sustainability of past achievements. However, the country faces some risks that could have a
   negative impact on medium-term gains: i) lack of funds for development needs; ii) staffing constraints; iii) low
   level of knowledge absorption capacity; and iv) Mongolia' lessened access to grant financing options since it has
   recently become a middle-income country.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team worked closely with the government and the NSO during project preparation. The Bank took
   lessons learned from similar operations in Mongolia and other countries into account. Those lessons
   included: i) statistical capacity building requires integrated and coordinated support; ii) improving quality and
   wide dissemination of data can have a positive impact on the use of data; and iii) twinning arrangements with
   well-functioning national statistical offices can be more beneficial and cost-effective than hiring a firm or
   individual consultants. The Bank identified relevant risks during project preparation, including lack of political
   support and commitment for a modern statistical system, lack of external funding and effective coordination
   among development partners, resistance to change, and weak capacity in the present statistical system;
   mitigation efforts were sufficient. The project design included an innovative twinning arrangement with a
   consortium of German and Korean statistical offices.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank provided continuous overall project supervision and advice on fiduciary aspects, which allowed the
   identification of potential errors and addressing of issues in a timely manner. The Bank’s decision to move
   Task Team leadership to the field had a positive impact on project implementation and led to better client
   orientation, as it allowed the Bank team to respond more quickly to requests by the government. The Bank's
   procurement and fiduciary teams provided timely and relevant advice to NSO staff. Implementation Status
   Reports were prepared on a regular basis, with appropriate candor and result orientation.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government’s ownership and commitment were consistent and strong. The government continues to be
   committed to the project's objectives and is finalizing the National Strategy for the Development of Statistics
   for 2015-2020. Also, the government makes regular and full budgetary allocations, and line ministries and
   agencies work closely with the NSO.



  Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   At the beginning of the project implementation period, the NSO experienced a heavy workload as it was
   conducting three censuses simultaneously. Therefore, the NSO had little capacity to manage the project.
   Also, the NSO had limited experience in managing institutional development projects, weak capacity in
   financial management and procurement, and challenges related to turnover of project staff. The NSO
   addressed these issues promptly and effectively by hiring a competent project coordinator and an
   experienced coordination team. According to the ICR (p. 23), the NSO conducted all financial management
   and procurement activities in accordance with the project’s financing agreement and procurement plans.
   Throughout implementation, the NSO was committed to implementing recommendations from such sources
   as the mid-term review, a global assessment report, and technical experts.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 30) included four PDO indicators and 10 intermediate outcome
   indicators. The objective of the project was clearly defined and reflected in the selected indicators (although it
   should be noted that there were no indicators for the actual use of data for evidence-based policy making). The
   indicators were measurable. An internal Review and Monitoring Committee was established to monitor project
   outputs and outcomes.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Missing baseline data for some indicators was provided shortly after the start of project implementation. M&E
   activities included the preparation of semi-annual project progress reports and interim financial and audit reports
   by the project coordination team. After the mid-term review, the project team and the NSO increased their
   reports' focus on project outcomes.
c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR (p. 11) states that M&E data were used to make mid-course adjustments in project implementation.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The ICR was classified as category C and did not trigger any safeguards.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management

    The project complied with all Bank policies and the relevant operations policy guidelines. While there was a lack
    of financial management and procurement capacity at the beginning of the project, performance improved quickly
    and remained constantly satisfactory. Also, there was compliance with all legal covenants, as stated in the
    Financing Agreement.

    Procurement

    The project complied with all Bank policies and relevant operation policy guidelines. Weak procurement capacity
    was a challenge at the beginning of the project but was improved throughout project implementation.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review              Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
    The ICR (pp. 23-25) identifies several valuable lessons, including the following:

         Establishing twinning partnerships with international institutions is beneficial for obtaining statistical
          expertise and sustained engagement with international experts, not just during project implementation but
          also after a project has been completed. Through this project's twinning operation with the National
          Statistics Office of Germany and the Korea Statistical Office, the project particularly benefited in terms of
          knowledge sharing and direct access to relevant processes and procedures.
         Combining a local Task Team Leadership with a Task Team Leadership at headquarters allows for
          provision of technical assistance and addressing of delays promptly in the field, while at the same time
          ensuring access to additional technical resources at headquarters. The ICR (p. 24) states that the
          decentralization of task team leadership after the Mid-Term Review had a positive impact on the
          achievement of this project’s objectives.
         Broadening a national statistical system goes beyond the NSO. This project fostered collaboration
          between the NSO, regional statisticians, and statisticians in line ministries and government agencies
          through working groups and regular seminars to discuss common statistical challenges.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a solid overview of project preparation and implementation. It is consistent in its analysis and
    complies with guidelines. It does not include a traditional economic efficiency analysis, but it provides a solid
    outline of the challenges of conducting such an analysis for this type of project, and it presents sufficient evidence
    on the cost-effectiveness of project implementation.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
