FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report Nor-1647-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
CORUM-CANKIRI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 4, 1975
This repoxt was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit                  Turkish Lira  (TL)
US$ 1                 =        TL   14-.00
TL 1                         US$ 0.071
TL 1,000              =        US$ 71.1 
TL 1,000,000          =        US$ 1,429
Turkish Fiscal Year     March 1 to iFebruary 28



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR THE CORUM-CANKIRI
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$75 million to help finance
a rural development project. The loan would have a term of 25 years includ-
ing 6 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report (316a-TU) entitled "The Economic Development of Turkey"
in five volumes dated April 22, 1974 was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 31, 1974. An economic updating mission visited Turkey in
November 1974 and its report is currently being finalized. Its findings are
reflected in the following paragraphs. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        Overall, Turkey's economic performance continues to demonstrate the
essential soundness of the economy, despite the uncertain domestic political
situation faced by the country in the last few years. The gross national
product in the last decade has grown rapidly, averaging an impressive 7 per-
cent annual growth in real terms, in the period 1962-72. Industry, power,
transport and construction were the main growth sectors. Although in 1973,
GNP increased by only 5.5 percent-mainly due to a decrease in agricultural
production as a result of poor weather conditions - preliminary 1974 estimates
indicate that the GNP again rose by 7.5 percent. High growth has been main-
tained in the mining, transport, manufacturing, and energy sectors. The fact
that the growth rate has been of this high order, despite some difficult pro-
blems that the economy faces, underlines the robustness and vitality of
Turkey's economy.
4.        The budgetary situation in the last decade was dominated by the
relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Despite rapid growth of tax
revenues, the increase was more than offset by the rise in government expend-
itures and transfers.    As a result, the overall budget deficit widened and
the Treasury borrowed increasingly from the Central Bank. However, in 1972
and 1973, the Treasury introduced a stricter control of current expenditures
and shifted its deficit financing from borrowing from the Central Bank to the
sale of Government bonds to the public. The budget deficits rose again in 1974
to TL 7 billion (compared to TL 4.3 billion in 1973), partly as a result of a
shortfall in tax revenues and partly due to increased current expenditures as
a result of inflation and the Cyprus operations. Central Bank financing of
the Treasury rose by TL 4 billion.



-2-
5.        Over the years, the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), taken as a
whole, have earned low profits, necessitating increasing budgetary transfers
to meet their current and investment needs. However, much of the SEE deficits
are accounted for by the State Railways and the Coal Corporation. Other
enterprises have shown either small profits or small losses. During 1974,
prices of several SEE products were raised substantially (ranging from 20%
to 167%) to improve their financial situation. While this has resulted in
an increase in savings, the gains are still below the Third Plan (1973-1978)
target, and public enterprises continue to rely heavily on budgetary transfers.
Reform of the SEEs--in organization, management, executive and labor skills
and pricing policies-remains crucial, especially to prepare Turkish industry
for competition from the EEC. But these basic reforms can be realistically
expected to be initiated only by a government with significant parliamentary
support, which Turkey has not had over the last few years.
6.        The rate of inflation has been high in recent years, with the
yearly average rate of increase in wholesale prices accelerating from about
20 percent in 1973 to nearly 30 percent in 1974. Inflationary pressures have
been partly fueled by growth in domestic liquidity, which averaged about 25
percent per year during 1970-74. Other factors which have also contributed
are increases in agricultural support prices and minimum wages, besides sub-
stantial increases in the international price level of most imports. Effec-
tive measures to reduce the growth of domestic liquidity, without discouraging
investment and growth, are essential to ease inflationary measures. The trend
towards rapid increases in central bank financing of the public sector needs
to be checked. The Government has recently raised interest rates to encourage
private savings and long-term lending. The increase included raising the in-
terest rate on medium term credit from 12 to 14 percent and rates on time
deposits up to one year from 4 to 6 percent. The new Demirel Government
regards the restoration of price stability, as one of the key problems that
must be attacked and resolved.
7.        Turkey's development strategy places greater emphasis on growth
of output through higher labor productivity than on increased employment.
As a result, the labor surplus, including that in agriculture, rose from
about 1 million in 1962 to 1.6 million in 1973, i.e. about 10 percent of
the labor force. Emigration has so far eased the pressure on employment.
Between 1965 and 1973, net emigration amounted to about 450,000 and was ex-
pected to be about 70,000 per year during the Third Plan period (1973-77).
However, new emigrations fell sharply during 1974 due to the economic slow-
down in Europe. The Third Plan continues to emphasize investment in capital-
intensive industries, and projects a growth in non-agricultural labor surplus
by another 300,000 by 1977. With the reduced prospect of further emigration
of Turkish labor to Europe, at least in the medium-term, unemployment should
be a major concern of economic policy. Speedy implementation of land reform
and rural development programs would help to dampen migration from rural to
urban areas. In addition, labor intensive production methods need special
emphasis in the choice of projects. However, even with these measures and
faster growth than planned in construction and services, urban unemployment
is likely to remain a significant problem.



- 3-
8.        The prospects for continued high economic growth remain good,
although in view of the shortfall of the first two years of the Third Plan,
the 8 percent average annual growth during the Plan period seems unlikely.
The Third Plan constitutes the first phase of Turkey's long-term strategy for
the period 1973-95, the ultimate objective of which is to raise standards of
living in 1995 to those of Italy in 1970, through rapid industrialization and
decreasing dependence on external resources. The Plan aims at annual growth
rates of 8 percent in GDP, 12.7 percent in fixed investment, a marginal
national savings ratio of 38 percent (compared with about 18 percent in the
Second Plan), an annual increase in commodity imports and exports of 9.4 per-
cent and 7.1 percent respectively and an increase in invisible earnings
(mainly workers remittances) leading to a decline in gross inflows of official
external assistance to $130 million in 1977 (compared with over $300 million
in 1972).
9.        The Plan's projections seem to be rather over optimistic about the
prospects of raising the savings level and balancing the external accounts
concomittant with the reduced levels of external assistance. Experience of
the last two years suggests that present efforts to mobilize larger domestic
savings to support rapid growth of investment, especially in the public
sector, need to be intensified. The Plan anticipates that two-thirds of the
increase in national savings will come from the public sector, through large
increases in both tax revenues and in surpluses of the SEEs. Given the past
performance of SEEs and delays in implementing a general reform, mentioned
in paragraph 5 above, the expected rapid growth in their surpluses is unlike-
ly to be realized. It will also be difficult to raise tax revenues to the
extent envisaged by the Plan. There is nevertheless scope for increases, if
appropriate policies are pursued more vigorously, e.g. improving the tax
administration, widening the tax net to cover agricultural incomes and service
incomes, increasing the rates of property taxation, introducing a value-added
tax and the like. Domestic resource mobilization in the public sector is,
in any case, likely to continue to be a constraint in the growth of public
investment. Besides ensuring improved financial performance from the SEEs,
higher external borrowing as well as policies to increase long-term domestic
borrowing from the private sector, will be necessary to achieve the ambitious
planned investment targets. As Turkey's development program requires funds
in excess of the savings that can be raised locally, and these cannot be pro-
vided in adequate amounts by financing only the foreign exchange costs of
high priority development projects, local expenditure financing by foreign
lenders is required.
10.       The projections of the Plan in respect of the balance of payments,
have been overtaken by developments on the international scene. The sharp
increase in the petroleum and other import prices during 1974, and the
prospect of further increases in the next several years, mean that the for-
eign exchange needs for imports will be much higher than projected. Commod-
ity imports and exports in 1973 were already above the level projected for
1977. At the same time, workers' remittances in 1972 were higher than the
1977 target and have continued to grow. However, their future is uncertain,
due to the temporary restrictions on further entry of foreign workers by



-4-
major labor-importing countries in Europe. On the other hand, recent agree-
ments between Turkey and Libya to send Turkish workers to Libya and the pos-
sibilities of similar arrangements with other oil-producing countries, should
alleviate the situation until the pace of economic activity accelerates in
Europe.
11.       The 1970 devaluation, together with associated stabilization mea-
sures, rising world demand and prices and a rapid rise in workers' remittances
(from $140 million in 1969 to $740 million in 1972) helped to improve Turkey's
balance of payments considerably in 1971 and 1972. This improvement continued
in 1973, with an inflow of $1.2 billion in workers remittances, and with ex-
ports increasing by 49 percent and imports by 34 percent. The overall result
was a surplus in the current account and a gross increase in reserves over
1972 of about $730 million.
12.       After these two years of substantial surpluses, the overall balance
of payments experienced a deficit in 1974, with net reserves declining by
about $360 million. This was due partly to sharp increases in the trade
deficit and the slow-down in the growth of workers' remittances, and partly
to a reduction of official capital aid inflows. The large trade deficit
resulted mainly from the 80 percent increase in the import bill (in particular,
petroleum, wheat, iron and steel), a large part of which was attributable to
higher import prices. The high growth rate of imports has continued in the
early months of 1975. There was also a decline in export volumes because of
the recession in major importing countries, agricultural supply constraints,
restrictions on exports to relieve domestic shortages, diversion of some goods
to Cyprus, and worsening terms of trade. Export pricing policy was not
flexible enough, particularly for cotton, whose export volumes fell sharply
as the Government's minimum export price remained fixed despite a fall in
international prices well below it. As a result, gross reserves, which stood
at over $2.1 billion in August have declined to about $1.8 billion at the
end of 1974 (or about 5 months of imports) and further to $1.4 billion at end
of March 1975. A slowing down of the rate of import growth, along with meas-
ures to stimulate exports, is clearly essential to prevent a further erosion
of reserves. In May 1974, the lira was revalued vis-a-vis the dollar to
TL 13.50 per US$, without a change in parity with other currencies. In
September 1974, the exchange rate per US$ was readjusted to TL 13.85. And
recently in April 1975, it has returned to the old exchange rate, TL 14 to
the dollar.
13.       At the end of 1974, total external debt outstanding and disbursed
was estimated at $3.1 billion, of which all but 3 percent is public or public-
ly guaranteed. The share of the Bank Group in total debt outstanding was
about 11 percent and about 8 percent in total debt service in 1974. The
average terms of new credits have been hardening in recent years. This trend
is expected to continue. Debt service as a ratio of exports of goods and
non-factor services plus workers remittances was about 6.5 percent in 1974
and is likely to remain around this level in the medium-term. However, in
view of the decline in foreign reserves, Turkey need to continue to exercise
considerable care in its external debt management, including restraint in
resort to suppliers' credit financing. Meanwhile, Turkey continues to be
creditworthy for Bank financing.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
14.       The 1970 economic stabilization program (see para 11 above) and
devaluation of the Turkish lira enabled Bank Group lending, which had pre-
viously been intermittent, to be established on a continuing basis at a high
level. Bank Group lending amounted to $114.0 million in FY1971 and doubled
to nearly $230 million in FY1974. Inclusive of the proposed loan, the Bank
Group will have lent $1,087.9 million to Turkey through 41 lending operations.
Twelve of these operations were in agriculture (including multipurpose), fif-
teen in industry (including DFCs), ten in power and the rest in urban develop-
ment, transportation, and vocational education. Agriculture accounts for 20
percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for 36 percent and power for about
30 percent. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of April 30, 1975, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
15.       Implementation of projects has been satisfactory in the private
sector, but less 30 in the public sector where projects have been significant-
ly delayed due to political uncertainties, staffing problems and related ad-
ministrative delays. As a result, disbursements have been slower than expected.
In order to improve upon this situation, the Government and the Bank are making
special arrangements for identifying and correcting problems as they arise.
Among other steps, a review of existing projects will be undertaken period-
ically with responsible high level officials in Ankara or Washington. The
first review will take place in June.
16.       In view of the improved balance of payments situation, IDA lending
was discontinued after FY73. Bank lending is mainly directed at supporting
Turkish efforts to improve: (a) lagging public sector saving through gradual
improvement and reform in the SEEs; (b) the distribution of income and an
increase in the living standards in an economv entering its second decade of
roughly 7 percent yearly growth, through increasing employment in investment
projects, more concerted rural development efforts, and better urban planning;
and (c) long-term capacity to earn foreign exchange, through diversification,
especially promotion of industrial exports and tourism.
17.       While the focus of Bank lending is on supporting institutional and
structural changes, continuation of recent levels of lending is equally im-
portant in view of the increase in projected capital import requirements.
Turkey's Third Plan goals of an annual 8 percent growth rate and increasing
competitiveness in preparation for eventual full EEC membership, will require
import liberalization and higher external borrowing in the near term.
18.       In support of the objectives stated above it is proposed to devote
future Bank resources to certain key sectors, of which agriculture is the
most important. In this sector emphasis will be put on rural development
and the strengthening of agricultural credit mechanisms. Industry (including
mining and DFCs) and power, where the gradual strengthening of the SEEs is
the key task, will also receive significant support. This program will be
supplemented by further loans in selected sectors including urban development,



- 6 -
tourism and transport. Until recently, Bank lending was focussed on the
Istanbul region, with emphasis on urban planning, water supply, power distri-
bution and industrial finance, and on the Cukurova region around Adana on the
southern coast, with emphasis on power, irrigation, and fruit and vegetable
production. It is expected that the focus of our lending will gradually shift
to the Anatolian plateau and eastern Turkey (e.g. Elbistan), in support of
efforts to widen the geographical base of development, discourage too rapid
urban migration and improve the distribution of income.
19.       Thus far in FY75 the Bank has provided a $65 million loan to The
Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB) to help finance small and medium
scale private industrial enterprises - particularly in the less developed re-
gions, besides an $18 million additional loan to IGSAS for an expanded ferti-
lizer project.
20.       Negotiations have been substantially completed for a second loan
for a transmission project to TEK which will be submitted for your considera-
tion early in FY76. Other projects under preparation include projects for
agricultural credit essentially to support export oriented agro-industrial
enterprises, livestock, rural development, the Karakaya Power Dam on the
Euphrates River in eastern Turkey (subject to satisfactory arrangements re-
garding the riparian issue), bus transport and wastewater disposal in
Istanbul, a paper mill and tourism infrastructure.
21.       The European Investment Bank and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau con-
tinue to serve as important sources of external financing on non-commercial
terms. The Bank has cooperated closely with both agencies for financing proj-
ects with large external financing requirements. Such collaboration will be
continued in the future, whenever suitable opportunities arise. Similarly,
the Bank has worked closely and proposes to do so in the future with the
UNDP in undertaking feasibility studies, preparing projects or providing
technical assistance.
22.       IFC has invested in tourism, in the production of nylon yarns, pulp
and paper, glass, aluminum and steel pipes. As of April 30, 1975, gross
commitments totaled $81.3 million of which $55.3 million were still held by
IFC. IFC is currently investigating investment opportunities in the indus-
trial sector, including textiles, synthetic fibers, and inorganic materials.
PART III - RURAL. DEVELOPMENT IN TURKEY
Introduction
23.       Rural development naturally focusses on agriculture production, but
requires a number of complementary investments in various other sectors. A
detailed discussion of Turkey's regional development policies and the agri-
culture sector is contained in the report entitled "The Economic Development
of Turkey, Volume III: Major Social and Economic Sectors (316a-TU) dated
April 22, 1974.



-7-
24.       Despite a large modern sector and over fifty years of Government
supported attempts at modernization, a majority of the Turkish people still
live in rural environments, relatively untouched by development. Migration -
whether to richer areas for seasonal work, or to the cities, or abroad -
has been the traditional solution to the problem of economic betterment.
Yet despite rather massive shifts away from the land, the rural population
continues to grow at about 1.6% per annum. The target group for rural devel-
opment - those with incomes less than one-third the national average - com-
prise the majority of the Turkish population.
25.       Geographically, Turkey may be conveniently divided into three major
regions; a relatively rich wet coastal belt stretching from the Black Sea to
the Mediterranean; a high semi-arid Central Anatolian Plateau; and a large
mountain range covering the eastern third of the country. The mountainous east
is the poorest and with the exception of some fertile valleys, has limited
prospects for development. The coastal area, where most agriculture develop-
ment has taken place, is the wealthiest. From the perspective of rural devel-
opment, the Central Anatolian Plateau, Turkey's dry cereal growing area where
the majority of the rural poor live, poses the most substantial challenge.
26.       The quality of life in the rural regions of Turkey varies greatly
from region to region; even within a region, it depends on the ease of commu-
nication with the larger provincial towns and access to basic amenities such
as water supply and power. The wide-spread introduction of the transistor
radio has of course, brought the village into contact with modern life. How-
ever, of the 35,000 villages in Turkey, in 1972, only 60 percent had an ade-
quate water supply and only 11 percent had power.
Government Policy on Rural Development
27.       Since the beginning of the Republic in 1923, Turkish governments
have attempted to integrate the Anatolian Plateau into the life of modern
Turkey. The capital was transferred to Ankara. Provincial towns were devel-
oped by making them into government centers, linking them to the major cities
through roads, railways and airports, and by the establishment of state indus-
tries. Innovative efforts in education were attempted. These efforts were
successful in stimulating the growth of many secondary cities, (Turkey has
22 cities with populations over 100,000 and 3 over 1 million). Nevertheless,
the agricultural development of the Plateau and of the East remained relative-
ly neglected and the rural sector, a backwater. Agriculture investment was
concentrated in the coastal areas where the potential of irrigation and com-
mercial crop production offered the highest economic and financial returns.
28.       Recent development plans have attempted to change this situation
by stressing the objective of balanced regional development and social justice;
progress has however continued to be slow. The government has established a
list of priority provinces where certain incentives to private investment are
given, and plans have been prepared to establish new industrial plants in more
than 30 provinces. While these plans do not give specific guidelines for the
allocation of public funds to rural development, the government has adopted
targets for the provision of basic services in the less prosperous rural



- 8 -
regions of the country. For instance, all villages are supposed to be supplied
with water within five years, and with roads and power within ten years. Based
on past progress and resource constraints, these targets will take much longer
to achieve. There are similar plans for the extension of education and health
services.
Agriculture
29.       Although declining as a share of the economy, agriculture remains
crucial in Turkey. It contributes about 25 percent of GNP, employs nearly
65 percent of the labor force, supplies much of the raw materials for indus-
try, and accounts for the bulk of the export earnings. Growth in agricul-
tural production (excluding forestry and fisheries) averaged 2.4 percent
during the period 1965-73, partly due to favorable weather conditions and
expansion of irrigation. The Third Plan like the Second Plan assigns lower
priority to investment in agriculture relative to industry and transport. It
is clear however, that to absorb rising population in the rural areas and,
more importantly, to check the present drift of the rural underemployed to
urban centers, a concentrated effort is required not only to increase the
volume of investment in agriculture but also to bring about necessary insti-
tutional and other reforms to yield a reallocation of resources within all
sectors and a geographically and socially balanced growth.
30.       As a result of the concentration of agricultural investment in the
coastal areas, the growth rates for the production of industrial crops,
fruits and vegetables have been greater than for dryland cereals and live-
stock. Despite considerable potential for expanding irrigation, the major-
ity of Turkish agticulture is and will remain dryland farming suitable for
cereals and livestock, and the livelihood of the majority of farm families
will depend on these activities.
Land Reform
31.       There have been various attempts at land reform, most recently
through a Land Reform Act passed in 1973. However, land ownership and tenure
problems remain a barrier to improved income distribution, innovation and
productivity. Large landlordism continues mainly in southern and eastern
Turkey and a pilot land reform program is currently underway in Urfa province,
near the Syrian border. Throughout Turkey, fragmentation of holdings is a
problem because of inheritance practices. Nearly all farm units consist of
two or more parcels and more than half have six or more. The lack of an ade-
quate cadastral survey and records of title make it very difficult to imple-
ment land reform and land consolidation, and hinder access of the smaller
farmers to credit.
Institutions in the Agriculture Sector
32.       As is frequently the case, the institutional framework for agricul-
ture and rural development is diffuse, incomplete and poorly coordinated.
It"re than twenty major agencies are responsible for various aspects of the



-9-
sector, often with conflicting interests and overlapping areas of respons-
ibility. Coordination of effort occurs largely at the center during the
annual review of agency investment plans by the State Planning Organization
(SPO); regional or provincial planning is practically non-existent. Water
resource development is divided among the State Hydraulic Works (DSI), the
Directorate for Soil and Water Conservation (Topraksu), Illerbank and the
Directorate of Village Roads, Water, and Power (YSE). Extension is provided
by the General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock, Topraksu, the Agricultural Bank (ABT) and the
Sugar Corporation. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock and its
directorates are responsible for some sector planning functions, and the
Ministry of Village Affairs (which includes Topraksu and YSE) for others.
33.       Turkey has a complex and comprehensive price support and control
program affecting most farm products. The program has the dual, if con-
flicting, objective of keeping consumer prices low while supporting the in-
comes of producers. While it is difficult to assess the net effects of the
price program, it seems to have penalized the producers of cereal crops in
dryland areas and restricted production of livestock and livestock feed.
Agricultural Credit
34.       Strict control over the entire structure of interest rates has been
an important feature of Turkey's monetary policy for many years. In general,
ceilings on interest rates have been set below market equilibrium rates in
order to stimulate production, enhance international competitiveness, and
contain inflationary pressures. Because this system discourages private com-
mercial bank credits to sectors like agriculture, such sectors are served by
specialized institutions, e.g. ABT in the field of agriculture, which have
privileged access to sources of funds such as advances and rediscounts, Gov-
ernment subsidies, official deposits, and those of social security premiums.
By controlling allocations in this manner, the role of interest rates in
allocating credits has been reduced. In addition to interest rates, banks
are permitted to charge additional fees and commissions. For instance, al-
though the current permissible base interest rate for agriculture in Turkey
is 10.5 percent, with additional charges, the effective cost of borrowing to
the Turkish farmer is about 11 percent for most purposes from regulated
sources, and much higher from private sources.
35.       As mentioned above, almost all institutional credit available to
farmers in Turkey is provided by ABT, a semi-autonomous enterprise wholly
owned by Government. Statistics on private sector credit are inadequate al-
though these are estimated to be substantial. ABT had approximately TL 12
billion in loans to agriculture outstanding in 1973; of this, an estimated
TL 7 billion was provided to farmers for production. The remaining TL 5 bil-
lion was largely lent to a small number of export cooperatives. For a number
of reasons, mainly interest rate policy, low level of government support and
poor repayment experience, ABT has not been able to raise the resources needed
by agriculture. Moreover, because of the land title problem mentioned above,
credits have not been available to a large proportion of smaller farmers.
As a means of improving on this situation, ABT has developed a program of
lending through Credit Cooperatives and a modest supervised credit program.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
36.       The proposed project is the Bank's first rural development project
in Turkey. Following some years of encouragement by the Bank, the project
was identified with the assistance of an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and
Bank mission, which visited Turkey in June 1972. Preparation, undertaken
by a group led by the Ministry of Agriculture with assistance provided by
the Cooperative Program and Bank staff, was completed in May 1974. The
project was appraised in October 1974. Negotiations were held in May 1975
in Washington with a Turkish delegation headed by Mr. Muammer Akinci, Chief
Economic and Financial Counselor of the Turkish Embassy and which included
Mr. Nescet Parman, Secretary of ABT, Mr. Husegon Yegin, Assistant Under-
secretary of the Ministry of Village Affairs, Mr. Arif Ugur, Expert of the
SPO, Mr. Kemal Kaptan, Assistant Director of the Ministry of Food, Agricul-
ture and Livestock, Mr. Mete Basci, Agriculture Counselor of the Turkish
Embassy, and Mr. Ertugrul Senay, Economic and Financial Counselor of the
Turkish Embassy.
The Project Area
37.       Corum and Cankiri, adjacent provinces in the northern part of the
Central Anatolian Plateau, have a total population of about 800,000 or about
two percent of Turkey's total population. Of these, about 600,000 live in
rural areas, 313,000 of whom are employed in agriculture. In terms of eco-
nomic and social development, the provinces rank in the lower third of the
67 provinces in Turkey. Of the 21,000 km2 area in the provinces, only about
9,000 km2 are cultivated; of this, 1,000 km2 are irrigated and the remainder
is rainfed. Lowland areas, in the south of both provinces, are characterized
by plateaus with gently rolling hills and small valleys. The area is gener-
ally semi-arid, with rainfall averaging about 400 mm per year distributed
fairly uniformly from mid-November to mid-June. The cities of Corum and
Cankiri are linked to Ankara by asphalt roads. The other main towns are
served by all-weather roads but access to most villages is poor. A main
rail line passes through Cankiri; there are no commercial airports in
either province.
38.       The cities and towns of these provinces are electified and have
telephone services. But less than five percent of the villages have these
facilities. In 1970, more than 53 percent of the provincial population over
the age of six were illiterate; 935 villages had schools and 305 did not, al-
though for 202 of the latter schools in other villages were accessible part
of the year. Health services in the two provinces are well below average
with only 0.8 doctors per 10,000 people compared to 3.9 for Turkey as a
-whole. Adequate water supply was available to only 42 percent of the prov-
inces villages. Most of the area farmers are smallholders with less than
5 ha, whose incomes are below one-third of national per capita income and
are thus in Turkey's target group for rural development.



The Project
39.       The core of the proposed project is an intensive extension service
to introduce better practices for increased production complemented by the
provision of supervised agricultural credit to farmers. The project is
designed to reach all 1,240 villages within the two provinces in three years
and have economic impact on all within five years. Investment in essential
infrastructure and basic services will complement the increase in production
and improve the villagers' standard of life.
40.       Briefly, the proposed project includes:   an intensive extension
effort; provision of agricultural credit to meet short-term and medium-term
needs of farmers; veterinary services; irrigation of 12,500 ha and land dev-
elopment for about 7,500 ha; construction of 65 km of new and rehabilitation
of 164 km of existing village roads and maintenance of 904 km of village roads;
provision of drinking water to some 120 villages; electrification of 233 set-
tlement areas covering 270 villages, construction of 63 village centers; and
training and consultant services. A more detailed description is provided
in the Loan and Project Summary attached as Annex III. An appraisal report
entitled "Appraisal of the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project Turkey"
(No. 699-TU dated May 19, 1975) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The key features of the proposed project are amplified
in succeeding paragraphs.
41.       Extension Service:  One of the most important features of the pro-
posed project is the creation of a Project Extension Service (PES) under the
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock. It is patterned on the success-
ful approach to extension work employed in the Seyhan Irrigation Project
(financed by Loan/Credit 587/143), which has been adopted in other countries.
The organization of the PES is described more specifically in paragraph 56
below. The extension system is designed to reach the farmer through a care-
fully selected and coordinated body of simple, directly useful information
which will yield him immediate benefits.
42.       The Village Agents, who will be selected from among the capable
village farmers and employed by the PES will perform a key function. The
Agents will continue to live in their villages and when necessary, be provided
with a motorbicycle operating allowance to facilitate their transportation
for extension work. They will be backed up by a team of Subject Matter
Specialists and County Agents, who are to initially train the Village Agents
and provide them with a week by week program of guidance for the farmers.
The village and field training will consist of lectures, discussions and de-
monstrations. Recommended practices would be demonstrated on farms of select-
ed farmers in each village. By focusing on a few basic improvements and
demonstrating them under field conditions, a great deal of the traditional
resistance of farmers to new practices is expected to be overcome. One of
the expected side benefits of this system, as experienced in Seyhan, is the
increased self confidence of both the farmers and the extension service staff.
Three consultants would be provided initially to assist in the organization
and management of the PES. Short-term specialist consultant services and
overseas training would also be provided, as needed.



- 12 -
43.       Credit:  The supply of agricultural credit in the two provinces is
presently inadequate to support increased agricultural development. Thus,
the proposed project envisages provision of both short-term and medium-term
credit to the farmers through ABT's 19 branches and 65 agricultural credit
cooperatives in the project area. Because of the limited number of crops
and relatively straightforward needs for inputs and equipment, credit opera-
tions are expected to be relatively simple to execute. ABT would provide short-
term loans to project farmers for cultivation expenses, seeds, fertilizer,
chemicals, etc. on the basis of the recommendation of the PES. Per hectare
norms for each crop would be set each year by ABT and the PES and used to
determine the amount of subloans. Medium-term credits (five to seven years
including one year's grace) would be extended for investments in farm ma-
chinery (essentially tractors) and buildings for livestock. The technical
and financial feasibility evaluations of credit applications would be prepared
by the agents of the PES. ABT would be responsible for making creditworthiness
assessments of applicants before providing the credit.
44.       To facilitate the administration of credit operations, ABT and the
PES would enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, spelling out
the detailed administrative procedures for implementing these general pro-
visions. ABT would also ensure that it has the staff in sufficient numbers
and of appropriate competence in its branches in both provinces to facilitate
the increased credit program envisaged under the project. The PES would also
have sufficient agricultural specialists to prepare the technical and finan-
cial feasibilities of the applications for medium-term credit. It is antic-
ipated that since the majority of the farms in the two provinces are small
and would by themselves be unable to support the purchases of expensive
equipment such as tractors, the approximately 3,500 farmers purchasing
tractors under the project, would contract to provide services to other
farmers.
45.       About $34.4 million from the proposed loan would be utilized to
meet the agricultural credit needs envisaged under the proposed project.
This portion of the Bank loan would be on-lent by the Government to ABT, on
substantially the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. Short-term
credit would be extended from a revolving fund totalling $22.4 million;
$15.7 million of which would come from the proposed Bank loan and $6.7 mil-
lion from ABT. A total of $34.1 million would be provided as medium-term
credit to support purchases of buildings equipment; $18.7 million of this
would come from the proposed Bank loan and $15.4 million from ABT. Since
ABT has a shortage of funds, the Government undertook to assure the provi-
sion of the funds necessary for ABT's contribution to the credit program.
ABT would establish and maintain two accounts, one for short-term and the
other for medium-term credit, by depositing in each, Bank monies on-lent
to it by the Government, the Government contribution and the repayments
which it will receive from its sub-borrowers.



- 13 -
46.       The Government would bear the foreign exchange risks on the $34.4
million of Bank monies lent to ABT, but ABT would bear the credit risks.
ABT's short- and medium-term loans would both carry a lending rate of 11.0
percent inclusive of commissions, taxes, and other charges. As noted in
paragraph 34, these relending terms are standard for agriculture in Turkey.
47.       Other Productive Components:   Livestock is an important activity in
the project area. Local cattle are hardy and reasonably productive, although
they suffer from poor management and lack of adequate fodder. Increased pro-
duction of livestock products would be sought through better feeding and man-
agement, improved health and disease control, and the provision of better
quality animals through upgrading by artificial insemination and improved
selection and culling practices. Credit would be provided through the ABT
for upgrading livestock housing facilities. Increased fodder production
for improved animal nutrition would be encouraged through replacing the
traditional cereal/fallow crop rotation with a cereal/forage rotation.
48.       Because of the low rainfall, the surface irrigation potential of
the area is limited. Groundwater surveys have confirmed the availability of
usable quantities in only one basin. To develop the limited irrigation poten-
tial of the project area, the project would help finance five specific irri-
gation schemes serving about 7,500 ha, and 13 smaller schemes serving about
5,000 ha, together with about 7,500 ha of on-farm development. In addition,
17 small dams to impound water for livestock watering would be constructed.
49.       Infrastructure:   270 villages throughout the project area were
chosen from the 1,240 villages of the provinces for their development poten-
tial and are to be provided access roads, water supply, and power as needed.
The lack of adequate roads connecting villages to local cities and markets is
a major constraint to development preventing farmers access to markets and
social services. The roads portion of the project would improve or upgrade
roads to villages; 35 presently have no access roads and would be provided
them by the project. Sixty-five kilometers of new village roads would be
constructed, 164 km of existing village roads rehabilitated and 904 km
maintained.
50.       A large proportion of villagers do not presently have access to a
reliable and safe water supply. Enteric diseases are endemic, and sap
strength and energy, besides lowering the quality of life. The first step
in meeting this problem is to improve the water supply. Under the project,
120 villages would be provided with a reliable supply. A similar situation
obtains with electricity; the project would provide 233 settlement areas serv-
ing all 270 villages with this basic service.
51.       Villages also lack minimum acceptable facilities for basic adminis-
tration, health and social needs. Village complexes are to be constructed in
63 villages under the project and would include community meeting halls,
public laundries, and public baths. The complexes will have a total area of
about 300 m2 and be constructed from concrete block. Besides their public
health aspects, the meeting halls will provide a center for village meetings
and a place for public education activities such as those under the PES in
farm development, animal husbandry and home economics.



- 1 4-
52.       Complementary Activities:   Recognizing that increases in production
and the provision of basic services are only the first step to developing the
potential of the region, the Government is currently reviewing its educational,
health and social programs in these two provinces, to see how these might be
modified to complement the activities of the project. With increased produc-
tion and incomes, farmers are likely to be more receptive to Government ini-
tiatives in family health, education, as well as to womens and youth activities.
Assisted by the project funds, the Government will monitor and evaluate the
project as a guide to future policies and identify and prepare a subsequent
project.
Project Costs and Financial Plan
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about $162 million of
which about $54 million would be in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan
of $75 million, would finance 46 percent of the total costs, made up of 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost and about $21 million of local costs.
The Government would finance 33 percent directly and 14 percent through the
ABT; with the remaining 7 percent provided by ABT's subborrowers of medium-
term credit loans. In view of the innovative nature of the proposed project,
its relatively small foreign exchange component, and to encourage the Govern-
ment's efforts in developing similar projects in other unprosperous provinces
of Turkey, I consider that financing of local currency costs in the amount
proposed to be justified.
54.       Contribution of Beneficiaries:   Besides their contribution in cash
and services to on-farm development costs financed by the credit portion of
the project, project beneficiaries would pay for the operating and maintenance
charges for the project infrastructure except roads and a portion of the in-
vestment costs for the irrigation schemes, power facilities, and any house
connections made from village water supplies. Beneficiary contributions in
labor and kind would be made for on-farm activities and for the construction
of village water supplies. The government does not levy charges for the costs
of village water supplies (except for house connections) which are provided
as a social service to poor rural areas. The Bank has noted the difficulties
this policy creates in providing adequate resources for meeting the Govern-
ment's national target for village water supply. However, given the small
number of units under the present project and the Governments recent confirma-
tion of the policy, it was not considered reasonable to request a change for
this project.
Project Management Arrangements
55.       The arrangements for implementing the proposed project follow
Turkish administrative practice, under which each line agency will be respons-
ible for the execution of the relevant project component. Nine agencies would
implement the project: the Project Extension Service, to provide extension
services to the farmers, to prepare the technical and financial evaluations
of the medium-term credit applications to be considered by ABT, and to estab-
lish the norms on which short-term credit can be provided by ABT; the Veter-
inary Services for animal health and breed improvement; ABT for the agricul-



- 15 -
tural credit operations; DSI for the construction of the large irrigation
works; TOPRAKSU, for that of the smaller irrigation works, dams for livestock
water and for on-farm development; The Directorate of Village Roads Water, and
Power (YSE), for the construction and rehabilitation of the village roads and
village water supply; The Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) for electrifica-
tion of villages; the Directorate of Land and Resettlement of the Ministry of
Village Affairs TOPRAK-ISKAN, for the construction of the Village Centers, and
the State Planning Organization (SPO) for overall monitoring. Those agencies
involved in the construction works envisaged under the proposed project, would
also be responsible for, or for arranging for, the operation and maintenance
of the facilities which they construct.
56.       The success of the project depends on the PES whose functions and
main operating methods have been described in paragraphs 41 and 42. It would
be headed by a well experienced Director, employed by the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock and reporting directly to the Director General of
Agricultural Affairs. He would be assisted by two experienced and qualified
Deputy Directors, each in charge of the extension activities in each of the
two provinces. The establishment of the PES and the appointment of qualified
and experienced staff to the posts of Director and Deputy Director are condi-
tions of making the loan effective. The head of the extension in each county
(ilce) in each of the provinces, would report to the Deputy Director concerned
and have assistants to assist him supervise and train the Village Agents. In
each province, the extension staff would include Subject Matter Specialists
assigned primarily to provide the County Agents with the necessary technical
back-stopping and training so that they can support the Village Agents. The
staff in each province would also have sufficient expertise to support the
credit operations of ABT.
57.       The overall coordination of the proposed project, crucial since nine
agencies will be responsible for executing it, would come through a two--layer-
ed arrangement of advisory committees. A Central Advisory Committee under the
State Planning Organization (SPO), to be established within 3 months of loan
effectiveness, would be located in Ankara. It would consist of the Directors
General or their representatives of all nine of the agencies involved in the
project and the Ministry of Finance. A Provincial Advisory Committee would
be established at the same time in each of the two provinces; each would
consist of the provincial directors or their representatives of all agencies
working within the province on the project, with the Director of the PES as
secretary and the Provincial Governor as Chairman. At their respective levels,
these committees would review the annual programs of construction work, receive
and review reports, coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project.
The central committee would also advise on policy issues.
Procurement
58.       DSI, TOPRAKSU, YSE, TEK and TOPRAK-ISKAN would prepare and submit
for the approval of the Bank, design and specification documents for the
construction of dams, irrigation structures, and all other construction in-
cluding rural water supply facilities, roads, electricity supply facilities
and village centers, together with bidding documents for contracts more than



$100,000. Because of the diverse nature of these civil works, their small size,
scattered locations and construction over a relatively long time, work will be
carried out by force account by the organizations responsible for the various
works; or contracts let after local advertisement under competitive procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. However, embassies of member countries and Switzerland
will be notified when contracts are expected to exceed $100,000. Two contracts
for dams involving about $3 million equivalent were let during appraisal under
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
59.       Heavy machinery and equipment totalling about US$8.7 million to be
purchased for the project by the relevant agencies, would be tendered under
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guide-
lines for Procurement". An assurance was obtained that import licenses would
be issued promptly to all successful bidders for equipment contracts put to
international competitive bidding. Goods manufactured in Turkey will be
granted a margin of preference of 15 percent or the level of customs duties
whichever is less, in accordance with Bank procedures. In the event that
equipment and/or machinery proposed to be purchased under international com-
petitive bidding is reserved for local procurement, the cost would be met
from local funds and an equivalent amount of the loan would be cancelled.
60.       For other project goods, numerous individual purchases by farmers
over an extended period would make bulking of procurement and, therefore,
international competitive tendering, impracticable. Procurement would thus
be through local commercial channels which include private traders, state
trading entities and cooperatives. These channels offer an adequate choice
of locally manufactured and internationally supplied goods.
Disbursements
61.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over a 6-year period, against:
100 percent of the foreign expenditures for imported equipment or 100 percent
of ex-factory cost of locally produced goods procured under international com-
petitive bidding, 100 percent of total expenditures for consultants; 100 per-
cent of the foreign expenditures for overseas training; 70 percent of the in-
cremental credit for short-term subloans and 55 percent of the medium-term
subloans made; 15 percent of the investment expenditures for power and village
centers, 38 percent for irrigation, livestock water supply works, roads and
domestic water supply; 50 percent of the total expenditures of the project
extension service and the Veterinary service. The loan would provide for up
to $1 million for retroactive financing for construction of two DSI dams, the
contracts for which were placed in 1974 in order to avoid the loss of a con-
struction season and the speedier realization of the benefits of the project.
Benefits
62.       The social and economic benefits of a rural development project like
Corum-Cankiri may exceed the quantifiable magnitudes by a large margin. The
project might well provide the critical mass to induce sustained development
in the region. Direct economic benefits would arise from the expansion of the
cropped area at the expense of land previously fallowed, increased yields of



- 17 -
wheat and barley and more productive livestock. The overall economic rate of
return for the entire project is 18 percent. If the costs of the social in-
frastructure are excluded, the economic rate of return would be 23 percent.
The returns on the components are respectively: irrigation, 11 percent;
livestock, 14 percent; and dry farming, 27 percent. Substantial unquantified
benefits would arise from the roads, water supply, electricity, and village
centers. The project is expected to provide over five years about 140,000
man-months of direct employment for execution of project works and services;
by the completion of development an incremental 110,000 man-months of seasonal
farm labor is also expected to be needed.
63.       The main beneficiaries of the project would be the approximately
79,000 farm families on dryland farms (about 400,000 people) whose contacts
with the PES and use of improved methods and inputs would lead to raising
their incomes by an estimated 70 percent, from an average of about $980 to
$1,670. The estimated 1,250 farm families benefiting from the various irriga-
tion schemes would benefit even more; their incomes, would increase by about
240 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ABT, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The draft agree-
ments conform to the normal pattern for loans for agriculture and rural
development projects. Special conditions of effectiveness are the establish-
ment of the Project Extension Service and the appointment of the Director and
Deputy Directors of the service.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 4, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1 of' 
COUNTRY DATA - TURKEY
3 9.       x Milni-o-n       (dl7     - 9 -,)                           115 IA.b     Per kn2of areba. Ised
SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                     fsnOCotre
GNP MR CAPITA US$(ATLAS BASIS) /                                   230&    ~       370~            6i00              90~ /a      ,96o0/a
DEMOGRAPHIC
MrudE brrth rate (per thousand)                                 415 #d            38 4L&          45 /f.h         45  aL 631
Crude deat  rste (perthousand)                             1I   d           13               1.1   h        1            96
Infan  mortality rate (P., thousand 1II. births)                187 /d.cL,_      145               70 ~      0-16.3 
Life expectancy at birth (Year.)                                 z/ I.            55              59fh            50 /f.h     71.1
Population growth rate ,                                         .7253331                                                      07
OPoo,ltto. growth rate - orb.,n                                 5.5              h.55__0__s
Age strutur     (pe-oot)
0-116                                                        41.3            61.8               47  a            7 /v       26.6 
15-66                                                         55.?            53.9               50             50 )         69.9 
65 and over                                                    3.5             6.3                3       ~       3          10.74~
Age dependency ratio /4                                         0.6             0.8              1.0            1.0L           0.5
E o..or,o dependency ra~tio  Ld                                 1.0             1.1               I8201.2
Urban population as pe, oent of total                          32.0             3 6.7 4.          362             6  I          95 /.
Family plwanotgI No, Of acceptors cusolative (thou..              0,             18  L   l       31              6612
No. of users (% of married eresen)           5.3  z           8.2             .,5_10
EKPI0DDI?
_7;1 b,foro. (thoueands)                                13,000 /Z       IL,500 L.         6,200          9,000 /y     19,600 
Po'coastags employed is agricoltor.                            71               67              Li              41            17
Peroentage uneMployed                                           2,b              6               7               3             3
1IN;OXN STSRSUTIOI
roan  .7  nAlinmooe reoeioed by highest 5%                          ad.nou  32     a..d    33    s         2 
Percent of nattional Inoom. reoesived by highest 20%             61   8t76d       60    ac.ad     593 I{~         5 
Peroent of national inwom    eeosived by lowest 20%                      Load                      6              5( Ic
Peroest of national inoma reoeteed by l.o,set 40%                          4d~                    1               15 
111D!Z     LIIND OWM
% owned by smsallest 10% of owners                              .                .
PoaaisPar pheoa                                          ,270 4         2,2I.0           2,160 ~         ,300            550
Population per nuosing permo                                  3,26   I. 188                    106       h    3,230           6470  L.g
Population per hospital bed                                                                                                          _ 5040  a 70A 0
Per capita -a0oria supply as % of reqoirement:aq                110             110               97              06           126
Per sepit   protein eapply, total (goon. per day       6         78              78               51              53           100
Of   hich, animal and pal...                                                   22               26    j            14        42 Z
Death rate 1-Ic yearsa 7                                         16                               1211    1 12                   2/o
!Vj.-.OEd IN primary schwol anroll,ant ratio                       72              111              95 11           62           107
Adjusted    'eccotary school enro2.lent ratio                    15              281              21             26             59
Te.ar of ilooing peomided, first end aseond le...l               11              II               114            12             13
Vooa-tiOnal s-Orllmreot as % of aec. school arrolmeant           10              161              25 /J,           3            26
Adult literacy rate %                                            '10             ' 55             71 A,z         37 /y.ao       91 /oo
HOUSINGI
1rg.No. of per-ous per roem (.rban)                          .01.9                          ..2.2                    or_   1.1     0
Peroent of Occupied unite without piped watar           ~        '11 /a          6.                              1 7  oro       I8 
bAa.   toemtii          (as % of total poputation)               2;L      ~      6    o          .                5   o   o     9 
Paroeot ofeOoral peltpalatioa .onnst.d to elstrilt                               18              .6                   oo
CONE~M    Ior.per 1000 pepeltion                              uS             107              10/             2   p         2   /
Passenger oar, per l00    popultion1                                              6                                                 a2~ 1  3
Klectrc powr consumcption (kwh p.o.)                            102             306/              5   a         28/            66
NeosprIsct consmamption p.c. kg per yer023.017                                                                  o8      ~     s
Notes, Flor-- refer either to tha latest periods o        to            aOouaot of anerantltEe5ur,od                            ad
th  :,te lyear.  Eatest periods refer is principle t.,              di.tribation by. ageadseonti.lp                uain.
the yer 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years In pzl'                /A   Protein standards (requiremoect) for all oountsies as eatab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                                  lished by USDA Eoonomic Neasarob Service provide for a minimnum
/I  The Per Capita GNP    etimste i. at maket prioeo for                 allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, &Ma 20 grass of
yea-. other then 1960,.alcul.at,d by the ass. conver-ln              animal en  pulas protein, of ehich 10 grams should be animal
teoh.ique as the 1972 World Bank AtI-s                               protein.  Thdea standard. are somewhat lmor than those of 75
L2  Average sumber of daughters per enema of reproductive                gre" of total protein And 23 gr-m of animal protein as La
age,                                                                 average for the world, proposed by PAD in the Third World Food
po Fpulatios growth rates ore for the decades ending In                Survey'.
1960 sod 1970.                                                  /7 Some setudios have suggested that erdod death rates of ohildren
Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod o-er to popula-              ages 1 throogh I. ma   be aaed a. . first appromimoation Inder of
lio-n of ages 15-66 for age dependeoy ratio and to labor            salnutrition.
force Of ages 15-64 for .oOnoeio deocodenov rto.                /8  Pereentg. enrolled of aarreep-ndisg population of soimool age
.A eeec  tandardo repreosent phy.1oldjgca    re                defined f- achoo   country.
quiremente fo r oornl activity and health, taking
L~1972;t /b    ncldig    meadows and pasatures;   ZL   Cooptad by applying to the 1972 figure the growth rate of the GNP/Ap. in
real tA.N from 196     to 1972;   /d  l956             eIved fromsaample survey estimates (9,700 houeeho1ds);         4f   1965-70i
Derived fron oamle surve .y astimat.o (7.,0,000 persons), excludiog 17 eastern provinces;         Lh   IN estiate      /i  Night be
ndoresttnated;     /1  1968; /k    Hate bo..ed on burial pemo6t.;    /I   Sour-a end methods ore differe nt for 197-60 ad 1965-671
~  965-67;   /0  1960-72;   Lo  Adnliitrative    -et-r of provi.... ad dietricst ('vilayet' sod 'kb...          osntere);   /p   1966-72;
P Fopulation living In a nucleus of Z,500 or m-0 Inhabitants;          /r  All Sharostan center., regurdliose of Dice, snd oil places
of 5,000 or more tohsbitont.; LIr P.pulati.n 00cr 2,000; /t 1971 cenaSo; /u tetimata; /y 1971; /. 1964-Jun. 1976;
/y  6 o.crnt bi,,og IUDs;      i1963j   /s  1$, Yeor   ud ovr;' 7_a    IC yeore mud over;     /ab  1962;   /ac   Disposable Income;
/dHousehoIdo;    /ne  icononiwo1ly aotiv- PoPaloio-;      /sf   1969;   /.   lncluding assistant nurse. ad oldalce;         /Oh  hospital
personncel -1yvI   /Ai  Including local or rural ho-pitalo ond -dical centers;         L8.j  196L-66; lab    1969-70;    =-    196L;
'unIO  d,gteucher trnining at th'rd 1-1;     /m   Pe r...s 01   ye.A  old and over    ho tell the lensus tako.s that they coo
-ad2 nnd write; /ao Definition o! lite,.acy nct knoun; /. 1961; Laq Data refer to households and exclude nonodic trlhes;
'r1966;   /.s Uirban and rural;    /ot   Inside ur cut oide;   /ao  Data rafer to living quentera;     /an   Per...ntage Of dwellings
uith.u;. pipvd  iuer    nside;  /aw  Percentage of dovIiiog     with electric lighting ;  Lm    Incl.ding special purpose vehicles.
5 ho long-L... strategy of Turklah plo.nolg currently gi-e the 19?70 lecol of Italy os ito objective.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Actual                Est.            Projected              Growth Rates         1973
1965-   1973-   1975-  Share
1965    1970    1972     1973     1974     1975    I976    1980     1973     1975    1980  of GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL billions at 1968 prices)
GDP (m.p.)                               87.4   123.8   144.7    151.3    163.2    175.3   188.9   261.6      7.1     7.7      8.3   100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade               - 0.1   - 0.7   -14.2     2.1     - 2.4     ..      ..      ..
Gross Domestic Income                    87-3   123.1   130.5    153.4    160.8     ..      ..      ..
Exports (g + nfs)                         4.8     6.7     8.7      9.6      6.7      8.1     8.8    12.1       9.0    -        8.5     6.3
Imports (g + nfs)                         5.4     9.6    12.9    14.3      16.8     18.1    19.3    25.1     1Z 9    11.9     8.8      9.5
Resource Balance                        - o.6   - 2.9   --4.2    - 4.7    -10.1.   -l0.0   40.5    43.0                                3.1
Consumption                              73.6   101.2   121.4   125.9     139.1    143.9   153-8   204.1      7.0     4.6     7.3     95.1
Investment                               14.4    25.5    27.5    30.0      34.8     40.7    45.6    71.8      9.6    16.5     12.0    19.8
Domestic Savings                         13.8    22.6    23.3     25.4     2h.1     31.6    35-1    57.5      7.9     7.6     12.7    16.8
National Savings                         14.1    24.0    27.7     31.4     30.1     37.6    41.1    63.5     10.5      9.5    11.0    20.8
GDP (at current m.p.)                    74.2   144.6   228.9    293.5    411.3     .,      ..      ..       18.8     ..
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                            Sbare of GDP (fc) at 1968 prices (')
Agriculture                              34.1    29.1    28.2     24.5     24.3     ..      ..      ..        2.4
Industry                                 17.8    20.6    21.8    23.5      23.6     ...     ..      ..       10.5
Services                                 48.1    50.3    50.0    52.0      52.1     ..      ..      ..        7.7
C. PRICES (1968=100.0)
Export Price Index                      100.0   137.3   169.0    234.3    397.0     ..      ..      ..       ..
Import Price Index                      109.3   140.6   194.6   216.4     323.6     ,    .          ..
Terms of Trade Index                     91.5    97.6    86.8    108.3    122.7     ..      ..      ..       ..
GDP (m.p.) Deflator                      84.9   116.9    158.2   194.0    252.0                  ..      ..      ..
Average Exchange Rate ($1.00-TL)         9.00   15.00    14.00   14.00    14.00     ..      ..       ..
D. SELECTED INDICATORS                            1965-73 i973-75 I975-80              E. LABOR FORCE            1965    1970    1975
Incremental Capital/output ratio                  3.1     3.2      3.2                 Labor Force (mln)      13.6    14.7
Import Elasticity                                 1.8     1.5      1.1                 Unemployment (mln)     0.4      0.6
Average National Savings Rate                    18.4     20.4    24.3                 (% of TL)               3.1     4.5
Marginal National Savings Rate                   24.8     32.3    29.6                 Employment (mln)       13.2    14.1
Imports/GDP                                       7.8      9.7    10.5                   (% share)
Investment/GDP                                   19.4    21.9     25.2                    Agriculture        70.5     62.1
Resource Gap/GDP                                  2.3     4.5      3.9                    Industry             8.0     9.8
Services           21.5     28.1
F. PUBLIC FINANCE
(as % of GDP at current m.p.)            1965    1970    1972     1973     1974
Current revenue                          12.9    28.1    20.6     19.4     18.8
Tax revenue                              14.3    16.5     17.4    17.5     16.4
Current expenditure                      10.0    10.2     10.6    10.1      9.9
Defense expenditure                       4.5     3.3      3.5     3.8      3.3
Government savings                        2.9    10.8     10.0     9.3      8.9
Capital expenditures                      4.7     4.8     3.8      3.5      4.7
Public sector fixed capital formation     8.8    10.0     8.8      8.5      8.8
April 30, 1975



AINIEL, 1
Page 3 of5
IMPORT DETAIL
1969    1970    1971     1972    1973    1974    1975     1976  1977    1980
A.  Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Food                                 39.6    82.8    70.8    26.8    39.7    192.8   197.0   202.0   206.0   221.0
Other goods                          36.8   165.2   196.0   231.6   163.9    172.2   187.0   204.0   223.0   288.0
Petroleum and products               60.8    66.7   121.1   114.7   131.9   205.3    203.0   203.0   210.0   232.0
Other intermediate goods            311.6   261.3   406.3   576.0   707.3    967.0  1072.0  1171.-0 1256.0  1552.0
Capital goods                       315.6   342.9   392.5   564.6   614.0   717.6   769.0    825.0   886.0  1094.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                764.4   918.9  1186.7  1513.7  1656.8   2255.9  2428.0  2605.0  2781.0  3387.0
Non-factor services                 150.0   -43.3   242.6   178.4    77.5     76.5    80.0    80.0    90.0   100.0
Total goods and NFS                 914.4   873.7  1400.6  1669.6  1655.3   2332.4  2508.0  2685.0  2871.0 .3487.0
B.  Prices Index (1968 = 100)
Food                                103.0   106.0    95.0    94.0   116.0    166.0   178.0   158.0   150.0   158.0
Other goods                         103.0    92.0    89.0    91.0   134.0    126.0   151.0   164.0   177.0   219.0
Petroleum and products              100.0   100.0   103.0   135.0   168.0    419.0   448.0   487.0   528.0   652.0
Other intermediate goods            108.0   101.0    84.0    .77.0    95.0   120.0   133.0   145.0   156.0   193.0
Capital goods                       103.0   110.0   118.0   129.0   151.0    170.0   190.0   206.0   222.0   275.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                105.0   103.0    99.0   103.0    126.0   167.4   182.4   193.5   206.4   250.9
Non-factor services                 103.0   110.0   118.0   129.0    151.0   170.0   201.3   220.0   236.7   294.0
Total goods and NFS                 105.0   103.0   104.0   107.0   133.0    167.8   183.0   194.3   207.3   252.1
C. Current Values (Million $)
Food                                 40.8    87.8    67.3    25.2    46.1   320.0    351.0   319.0   309.0   350.0
Other goods                          37.9   152.0   174.4   210.8   219.6    217.0  282.0    335.0   395.0   631.0
Petroleum and products               60.8    66.7   124.7   154.9   221.6    860.0   908.0   989.0  1109.0  1512.0
Other intermediate goods            336.5   263.9   341.3   443.5   671.9   1160.0  1426.0  1698.0  1959.0  2995.0
Capital goods                       325.1   377.2   463.1   728.3   927.1   1220.0  1461.0  1700.0  1967.0  3009.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                801.1   947.6  1170.8  1562.7  2086.3   3777.0 4428.0   5040.0  5739.0  8497.0
Non-factor services                 154.5   -47.6   286.3   230.2    117.0   1h4.0  161.0    176.0   213.0   294.0
Total goods and NFS                 955.6   900.0  1457.1  1792.9  2203.3   3914.0 4589.0  5216.0   5952.0  8791.0
April 30, 1975



A.NNEX I
EXPORT DETAIL                              Page 4 of 5
1969    1970    1971     1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1980
A.  Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Cotton                              123.3   165.4   123.8   107.4    151.3    77.3   100.0   125.0   150.0   180.0
Tobacco                              77.8    73.7    65.7    90.9    81.3     83.7    85.0    88.0    90.0   100.0
Hazelnuts                            99.9    63.0    56.0    78.1    72.0    104.7   110.0   120.0   130.0   160.0
Raisins                              25.1    21.6    28.9    36.9    60.5     30.9    60.0    63.0    67.0    85.0
Mining and quarry products           33.3    32.4    22.5    19.7     20.7    21.7    22.0    23.0    24.0    30.0
Manufactured goods                   96.5    96.3   126.7   188.4    301.4   272.0   300.0   320.0   350.0   440.0
All other goods                      79.2    79.8    92.8   114.0    159.6    54.1   120.0   150.0   170.0   230.0
Total goods (f.o.b.)                535.1   532.2   516.4   635.4   846.8    644.4   797.0   889.0   981.0  1225.0
Non-factor services                 140.4    23.8   151.3   131.1    198.1   229.9   253.0   261.0   279.0   355.0
Total goods and NFS                 675.5   556.0   667.7  .766.5  1044.9    874.3  1050.0  1150.0  1260.0  1580.0
B.  Price Index (1968    100)
Cotton                               92.1   104.7   156.0   178.2   202.1    461.6   377.7   447.6   489.6   5&7.5
Tobacc.o                            104.8   106.7   130.7   144.0   163.3    243.6   256.0   277.0   299.0   397.0
Hazelnuts                           107.7   138.1   150.4   149.1   169.1    186.6   208.4   228.8   248.2   308.4
Raisins                              91.0    96.2    75.2    82.6     93.7   187.1   269.0   229.5   249.0   309.3
Mining products                     104.8   140.2   178.4   177.8   201.6    230.2   232.0   253.0   258.0   328.0
Manufactured goods                  100.4   104.2   114.6   125.9    142.8   213.2   235.0   256.0   276.0   341.0
All other goods                     100.4   104.2   114.6   125.9    142.8   163.1   181.o   1.96.2  212.0   262.0
Total,goods (f.o.b.)                100.3   110.6   131.0   139.3    155.5   225.0   241.3   269.3   293.7   360.2
Non-factor services                 100.4   104.2   114.6   125.9    142.8   167.0   202.0   220.0   237.0   294.0
Total goods and NFS                 100.3   110.3   127.3   137.0    153.1   219.1   231.8   258.1   281.2   345.3
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Cotton                              113.6   173.2   193.1   191.3   305.8    356.8   378.0   560.0   734.0  1058.0
Tobacco                              81.5    78.6    85.9    130.9   132.9   203.8   217.6   243.8   269.1   597.0
Hazelnuts                           107.6    87.0    84.2   116.5    121.7   195.3   229.2   274.6   322.7   493.4
Raisins                              22.8    20.8    21.7    30.5    56.7     57.9   125.4   144.6   166.8   262.7
Mining,and quarry products           34.9    45.4    40.1    35.1     41.7    50.0    51.0    58.2    61.9     98.4
Manufactured goods                   96.9   100.3   145.2   237.2    430.4   580.0   705.0   819.2   966.0   1500.4
All other goods                      79.5    83.2   106.4    143.5   227.9    88.3   217.2   294.0   360.4   602.6
Total goods (f.o.b.)                536.8   588.5   676.6   885.0   1317.1  1532.0  1923.2  2393.8  2881.3  4412.0
Non-factor services                 141.0    24.8   173.4   165.0    282.9   384.0   511.1   574.2   661.2  1043.7
Total goods and NFS                 677.8   613.3   850.0  1050.0   1600.0 1'916.0  2434.3  2968.0  3542.5  5455.7
April 30, 1975



ANfEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In US$ millions)
Actual               Est.                     Projected
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977     1978    1979    1980
A.   SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (goods)                      588     677     885    1,317   1,532   1,923   2,394   2,881   3,312   3,826   4,412
Imports (goods)                     -948  -1,171  -1,563   -2,086  -3,777  -4,428  -5,040  -5,739  -6,549  -7,484  -8,497
Non-factor services, net              - 4     - 3      27     165     246     350     398     448     541     641     750
Resource balance (1+2+3)            -364     -497    -651    -604  -1,999  -2,155  -2,248  -2,410  -2,696  -3,017  -3,335
Interest, net                        -47     -60      -62     -59     -75    -106    -133    -163    -196    -239    -281
Workers' remittances                  273     471     740   1,183   1,425   1,600   1,792   2,007   2,248   2,518   2,820
Profit transfers                     -33      -36     -35     -35     -55     -50     -50     -60     -60     -70     -70
Net factor income (5+6+7)            193     375     643    1,089   1,295   1,444   1,609   1,784   1,992   2,209   2.469
Balance on current account (4+8)     -171    -122     - 8     485    -704    -711    -638    -626    -705    -808    -866
Private direct investment             58       45      43      27      25      30      30      30      40      40      40
TL Grain imports and grants           83      55       16      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Commercial credits (net)               -       -       -       52      75     213      50     253     349     378     382
Direct imports (with waivers)         34      27      39      50       65      80      90     100     110     120     130
Public M+LT loans:
Disbursements                        271     293     294      376     306     382     373     406     426     470     479
Armortization                        -197    -125    -127    -107     -85    -144    -155    -174    -189    -201    -205
Net disbursements                     74      168     167     269     221     237     218     232     237     270     274
Debt relief                           16       13      10      35      -       -       -       -       -       -       -
EMA refinancing                       50      37       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Overall balance                       144    223     267      918    -318    -150    -250     -10      30      -      -40
Short-term capital                    18      61      332    -244     -88    -100     -50      -       -       -       -
Change in reserves (- = increase)    -138    -344    -627    -728     362     250     300      10     -30      -       40
Errors and omissions                  -24     60      28       54     -44      -       -       -       -       -       -
End of period:
Gross international reserves         431     761    1,401   2,120   1,758   1,510   1,210   1,200   1,230   1,230   1,190
Net international reserves             11    414     556    1,006     430     180    -120    -130    -100    -100    -160
B.   GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official grant                        -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       _
Total public M+LT loans             271.1   336.7   441.7   319.6   578.0
a. IBRD                             40.0    54.5   177.0    105.0   228.0
b. IDA                                 -     19.5   36.3     30.0      -
c. Other multilateral (EIB)         15.7    13.0     1.7    49.8     90.0
d. Governments                     168.2   219.4    194.7   114.9   170.0
of which: Eastern Bloc         (113.7) ( 2.8) (     - ) (   - ) (   - )
e. Suppliers                        27.2    20.8    29.2     19.9   75.0
f. Financial institutions           20.0     9.5     2.8       -    15.0
g. Bonds                              -        -       -       -       -
h. Public loans                        -       -       -       -       -
other M+LT loans                       -       -       -       -       -
C.   MEMORANDUM ITEMS
% Grant element (Pub. M+LT)         47.0    47.0     45.0    41.0    30.6
Average interest (%)                 3.1      3.9     3.8     4.4     6.0
Average maturity (years)            19.1    25.3     21.6    23.5    23.7
Outstanding. Dec. 31. 1973
Amount   Percent
D.   EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                 (US$ millions)
IBRD                                                          141.0     3.7
Bank group                                                     254.5     6.7
Other multilateral (EIB)                                       219.3     5.8
Governments                                                   2153.3    57.0
of which: centrally planned economies                      ( 212.2)  ( 5.6)
Suppliers                                                      83.2      2.2
Financial institutions                                          33.2     0.9
Bonds                                                           18.7     0.5
Public debt NEI
Total public M+LT debt
Other public M+LT debt
Other M+LT debt
Total public debt (incl. undisbursed)
Total M+LT debt (incl. undisbursed)                           3778.7   100.0
a    DEBT PROFILE
Total debt service 1974-78/Total DOD end of 1973                   47.9
4.30.75



AIINEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF 3ANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURiKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANIK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of .Ipril 30, 1975)
Loan or                                                          Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit                                                                   US$ Million
Number    Year    Borrower               Purpose                 Bank    IDA     Undisbursed
N4ine loans and seven credits fully disbursed                    132.2    80.3
[87-TU    1,69    Republic of Turkey     Seyhan Irrigation
Stage II                 12.0                3.8
143-TU    1969    Republic of' Turkey    Seyhan Irrigation
Stage II                         12.0         .1
713-TU    1970    TSKB                   Industry                 40.0                 .
236-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey     Livestock I                       4.65       2.8
748-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey     Education                13.5               13.1
762-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey     Fruit and Vegetable      10.0               10.0
257-TU    1971    Republic of Turkey     Fruit and Vegetable              15.0        7.1
763-TU    1971    TEK                    Power Transmission       24.0                3.8
775-TU    1971   lRepublic of Turkey     Fourth Cukurova           7.0                 .1
281-TU    1972    Reuublic of Turkey     Irrigation Rehabili-
tation                          18.0       12.7
817-TU    1972    Republic of Turkey     Steel Plill Ixcpansicn   76.0               38.2
844-TU    1972    Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Water Suppl-y   37.0               32.6
324-TU    1972    Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Urban
8L.TUc/                            Development                      2 .        1.4
84L-TU2/ 1972     IG&AS                  Fertilizer Industry      42.0               133.7
QO-TU     1972    Republic of Turkey     livestock II                     16.0       15.9
873-lU    1972    TSKB                   Industry                 40.0                5.6
88 -'TTi  197     Republic of Turkey     Ceyhan Aslantas          44.0               44.0
60-TU    19Y7    Aepublic of" Turkey    Ceyhan Aslantas                  30.0       25.3
8925-TU   197     Republic of Turkey     Istanbul Power
Distribution            14.0               13.7
8C-'TU    1973    Turkish State Railway  Railway Project          47.0               28.1
9c 7-TL/  197I4   itepubl-ic of Turkeyr  intalya Forestry         40.0               40.0
120s`-TUa/  1974   TEK/TKI                Elhbistan Power         148.0              148.0
1024-TU    31974   DYB                    Indu:try                 40.o               4*o.o
3078-TU    1C97    TSKP                   Industry                 65.0               65.0
TOTALI/                                   831.7   178.1      585.3
of which has been repaid                   75.5      .9
Total] now outstanding                    756.2   177.2
Amount Sold                       30
of which has been repaid          ].2       1.8
Total now held by Bank .-rnd iDAY/        754.4   177.2
Total undisbursed                         520.1    65.2      585.3
n/  Not ,,et effective.
b/  Prior to exchnnge adjustments.
c/  The i-ncreiase of $31.8.0 million was rpproved on April- 15t, 1975.



ANDEX II
Page 2 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B. STATEMENIT OF IFC INVESTIMENTS
(As of April 30, 1975)
Amount in US$ Hillion
Year      Obligor          Type of Business         Loan      Equity      Total
196X      TSKB             DFC                       -         0.92       0.92
1966      SIFAS I          Nylon Yarn              0.90        0.47       1.37
1967      TSKB             DFC                       -         0.34       0.34
19JO?,    TSKI3            DFC                       -         0.41       0.41
1969      SIFAS II         Nylon Yarn              1.50        0.43       1.93
1,969     Viking I         Pulp and Ppper           2.50       0.62       3.12
1970      ACS              Glass                   10.00       1.58      11.58
1970      NASAS            Aluminum                 7.00       1.37       8.37
1970      SIFAS III        Nylon Yarn               0.75        -         0.75
1971      Viking II        Pulp and Paper            -         0.05       0.05
1971      SIFAS IV         Nylon Yarn                _         0.52       0.52
1972      TSKB             DFC                       -         0o43       0.43
1973      TSKB             DFC                    10.00         -        10.00
1973      Akdeniz          Tourism                  0.33       0.27       o.60
1974      Borusan          Steel Pipes              3.60       0.44       4.04
1974      AKSA             Textiles                10.00        -        10.00
1974      Kartaltepe       Textiles                 1.30        -         1.30
1-975     Sasa             Nylon Yarn              15.00        -        15.00
1975      Aslan            Cement                  10.60        -        10.60
Total Gross Commitments            73.48       7.85       81.33
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales               24.79       1.23      20.59
Total Commitments now held by IFC  48.69       6.62       55.31
Total Undisbursed                    7.90        -         7.90



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587/143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 million
Loan and US$12 million Credit of February 20, 1969. Closing Date: June 30,
1975.
Work on Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project is being perform-
ed in a satisfactory manner. There has been a slight delay in progress due
(i) to the need to terminate and readvertise several small civil works con-
tracts due to issuance of a Government decree to protect contractors from
financial distress from inflating costs on contracts with no price escala-
tion provisions; and (ii) delays in on-farm development caused by the failure
of farmers to make lands available because of interference with production
of high value cotton crops. Efforts are underway to determine the Govern-
ment's intentions regarding usage of loan/credit funds for the training of
project personnel.
Cr. No. 236 First Livestock Project: US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
Implementation of this project was initially delayed by administra-
tive difficulties encountered by the Turkish authorities in fulfilling some
of the effectiveness conditions, including securing services of necessary
staff for the project unit. These delays were largely due to the absence,
following a reorganization of the Turkish Government administration in
March 1971, of an effective coordinating link between the various ministries
concerned with the project and between the Government and the Bank Group.
These problems have been resolved, the project is virtually fully staffed,
and satisfactory progress is being made. About half the Credit has been
disbursed and the balance should be disbursed over the next 18 months. At
full disbursement some 140-150 farmers will benefit which falls short of the
original target of 250-300, mainly due to increased input costs.
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.
Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind schedule due to the initial
reluctance of the Ministry of Education to provide the project unit with
adequate qualified staff and authority commensurate with responsibilities
that this unit had to undertake. However, a new project director and deputy
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project executions.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
director have been appointed, other vacancies filled, and long standing prob-
lems concerning the appointment of technical assistance specialists are in
the process of being resolved. The procurement of equipment (the major com-
ponent of the project) is also proceeding satisfactorily. Although only
limited progress has been made in the implementation of the overall educa-
tional objectives of the project, these are now receiving increased attention.
Similarly, interim actions are now being initiated to prepare training pro-
grams for the Management Training Institute and select fellowship candidates
and staff which had been held in abeyance pending enactment of legislation,
still not approved, to establish the Institute. Cost estimates are being
updated by the Project Unit, but preliminary indications suggest cost over-
runs of about 65 percent over appraisal estimates. Only minimal disbursement
has been made to date; however contracts totaling more than $5.0 million have
been awarded, and disbursements are expected to increase significantly during
the first half of FY1976.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
Loan and US$15 million Credit of June 22, 1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project was initially delayed by difficulties in making the
loan/credit effective by the due date. Progress with 3 of the 5 major project
components is satisfactory (refrigerated trucks, ferry boats, marketing
facilities). A new extension approach has been initiated to increase fruit
and vegetable production, the fourth component. The fifth, the agricultural
credit survey, is not likely to produce meaningful results, and other arrange-
ments have been made to prepare an agricultural credit project for Bank fi-
nancing.
Ln. No. 763 TEK Power Transmission Project: US$24 million loan of June 22,
1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
The implementation pace of this project has been significantly
slower than originally anticipated due to shortage of staff. First contracts
were awarded early in 1972 and work is now progressing according to the re-
vised schedule. Problems in meeting the financial covenants were considered
in connection with the Elbistan project which incorporates revised procedures.
The closing date has been extended to June 30, 1976 to allow time to complete
procurement.
Ln. No. 775 Fourth Cukurova Power Project: US$7 million loan of June 30, 1971.
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
The transmission line and substation works have been completed and
the only outstanding work is the equipment of the System Control Center. All
work Is expected to be completed by mid-1975. The Borrower (the Government),
is aware of the beneficiary's (the Cukurova E.A.S.) serious shortage of cash
stemming from the impact of increased fuel oil costs. The beneficiary has
presented a revised power tariff to the Minister of Energy and Natural
Resources for approval, which should ease the situation.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Project construction schedules were revised in 1973, with the new
completion dates for Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat subprojects being one, five
and two years respectively behind the original schedule. Progress on con-
struction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works at Silifke
and Tokat is now proceeding well, but is still behind schedule at Koprucay
because of the extremely short annual work season. Provisions for the em-
ployment of consultants and training of national staff still remain to be
implemented.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Closing Date: December 1976.
The project is over a year and a half behind schedule, due to
delays in beginning procurement, stemming largely from a failure to install
efficient project management, realign the division of responsibility between
the Board and senior management, and appoint critically needed foreign con-
sultants. Following continuing discussions between the Government, the
company and the Bank on these problems, a well qualified senior executive
has been appointed as the president of the company in January 1975, and en-
couraging progress is being made gradually in realigning responsibilities
between the Board of Directors and the president.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The supply of water for Istanbul has increased by 48 percent since
1971, but shortages persist, particularly on the European side. Project
progress is about one year behind appraisal estimates, but better progress
is expected now that necessary consultants have been engaged. Progress on
water source developments should mean that water shortages throughout Istanbul
should be substantially reduced in 1975. Institutional improvement in ISI
are expected to begin soon, but progress is likely to be quite gradual.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Four consultant groups started work between November 1973 and
February 1974. Work on the Wastewater and the Bus/Traffic Engineering and
Control Projects is proceeding satisfactorily. The Wholesale Market Complex
has been somewhat delayed due to questions about site suitability. The Urban
and Transport studies are proceeding reasonably well.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
LN. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Closing Date: October 31, 1977.
An expansion of the original project was approved by the Bank on
October 11, 1973. Following early delays, procurement commenced in late
1973 and since then implementation has proceeded essentially on schedule.
About 80 percent of all goods have now been ordered. Physical completion is
expected in April 1976 and start of commercial production in September 1976.
This is about 9 months later than originally planned, mainly as a result of
the difficult equipment delivery situation which is being experienced inter-
nationally. A Loan Amendment of $18 million to finance the foreign exchange
costs of the expansion was approved on April 15, 1975.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project has started slowly due mainly to difficulties in secur-
ing the services of both local and expatriate technical staff. Salaries and
side benefits for local staff have recently been increased and recruitment is
picking up. Improved salaries and conditions for foreign specialists are
under discussion, with a view to early filling of all vacancies. The basic
project organization is now in place and implementation is expected to accel-
erate substantially, provided all staff shortages are overcome as expected.
Ln. No. 873-TU TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$40 million
Loan of December 28, 1972. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Since the first Bank loan was made in 1950, a satisfactory rela-
tionship has been developed with TSKB whose standard of appraisal work is
consistently high. This loan to TSKB has been almost fully committed and
when completely disbursed will bring Bank lending to TSKB to $233 million,
including the recent loan of US$65.0 million signed in January 1975.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360 TU, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Construction underway thus far includes the access road to the camp
site at Aslantas dam, campsite buildings, the river bridge at the dam site
and some irrigation and drainage works on the left bank of the Ceyhan river.
Energoproject has been appointed as engineering consultant for the Aslantas
Dam and Power plant. Contracts for on-farm development equipment have been
awarded. Firms have been prequalified for the main dam contract. Topraksu
and the Ministry of Agriculture have not yet employed consultants for on-farm
development and extension, and the Government has been asked to take imme-
diate action to correct the situation.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Progress on this project has been delayed by about two years and
costs are approximately twice what was estimated at appraisal. The consultant
to be appointed to study the gas supply system has not yet been selected and
this delay is affecting the work of associated consultants. These and other
problems are being reviewed with the parties concerned to work out an agreed
timetable for remedial actions.
Ln. No. 893-TU Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
After initial delays, procurement of track material and other Bank-
financed items is now progressing satisfactorily. TCDD's locomotive produc-
tion, which is being financed by another external lending institution, is
considerably behind schedule for reasons not entirely within TCDD's control.
Remedial measures are being taken resolve production problems, since this may
adversely affect the project in the long-run. In addition, the track renewal
program is proceeding slower than planned, although the Railways expect more
rapid progress in the next year. Although tarriffs have been raised twice
since the loan was made, other key provisions of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements, have not been carried out as scheduled and the Bank, the Guarantor
and the Borrower have met in Washington im May 1975 and agreed on a plan for
remedial steps.
Ln. No. 957-TU Antalya Forestry Project: US$40 million loan of January 28,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Although the conditions of effectiveness have now been met, the
date for effectiveness for this loan has been extended for a fifth time to
December, 1975, to allow the Government additional time to resolve the ques-
tion of selecting a satisfactory new plant site location, the initial site
having met strong local oppostion. A new site east of Antalya has been
identified and a feasibility study is under preparation. Implementation of
the project has also been delayed by difficulties in the hiring of consultants
for forestry development and studies, although some progress in resolving
major difficulties has now been made.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
This loan to the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) and the Turkish
Coal Authority (TKI) is to help finance the development of an open-cast
lignite mine in east central Turkey and the construction of an adjacent
lignite-burning 1200 megawatt power station and associated transmission lines.
Date for effectiveness of this loan, originally November 1, 1974, has been
postponed to June 30, 1975, to enable the Government to establish new elec-
-ricity tariffs.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
In. No. 1024-TU DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974.   Closing Date:  December 31, 1978.
The loan was declared effective by September 30, 1974. Submission
of subprojects has been slower than anticipated, however three projects total-
ing $15 million have recently been approved and disbursement is expected to
begin shortly.
Ln. No. 1078-TU TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The loan was declared effective by April 24, 1975.
Technical Assistance Project - Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK): US$1.9
million grant of August 20, 1967.
Technical assistance contracts covering the second phase of the
work were terminated in November-December 1972. Achievement, though short
of target in some respects, is generally satisfactory and TEK now has a much
improved accounting, budgeting and financial reporting system. Contracts for
the last phase of the work have been signed and final training program have
gotten underway, with one group of accountants having already completed train-
ing and further training groups being planned.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
CORUM-CANKIRI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries:      Agricultural Bank of Turkey (ABT), for the agricultural
credit portion of project.
Amount:              $75.0 million in various currencies.
Terms:               Twenty-five years, including six years of grace, at
8-1/2 percent per annum, plus a commitment charge of
3/4 of one percent.
Relending Terms:     $34.4 million to be onlent by the Borrower to ABT on
the same terms and conditions of the Bank loan. ABT
would relend to farmers for short-term and medium-
term credit at 11.0 percent per annum.
Project             The Project would provide a means of increasing the pro-
Description:        duction of crops and livestock, as well as increasing
farmer income and standard of living in the Corum and
Cankiri provinces through:
(a)  an intensive extension service;
(b)  provision of credit through the ABT;
(c)  construction of new irrigation facilities for about
12,500 ha and on-farm development for about 7,500
ha.
(d)  construction of 65 km of new village access road,
rehabilitation of 164 km of existing roads and
maintenance of 904 km of new and existing roads;
(e)  provision of drinking water for 120 villages,
20 through wells and the others from springs;
(f)  provision of electricity to 233 settlement areas;
(g)  construction of Village Centers in 63 villages;
(h)  consultancy services, including project monitoring
and preparation of future projects; and
(i)  training, equipment and buildings to carry out the
the above project activities.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Project Components:                                      Costs
Local        Foreign       Total
(US$ millions)
Irrigation                                 17.4            9.4          26.8
Roads                                        2.5           4.8           7.3
Social Infrastructure
(water, power, village
centers)                                 11.8           3.8          15.6
Extension Services                           3.5           1.3           5.3
Veterinary Services                          3.0           0.7           3.7
Farm Development-Credit                     33.4          20.5          53.9
Sub-total                             71.7           41.0         112.7
Contingencies (Price and Physical)          35.6          13.3          48.9
Total                                107.3           54.3         161.6
Financing Plan:
Component                   Sub-borrowers   Government    ABT     IBRD     Total
(US$ million)
Irrigation                       0.0           24.2       0.0    16.3       40.5
Roads                            0.0            3.6       0.0     6.5       10.1
Social Infrastructure (water
supply, power, village centers)0.0            16.1       0.0     6.4       22.5
Extension Service                0.0            3.7       0.0      5.0       8.7
Veterinary Service               0.0            2.9       0.0      3.0       5.9
Contingencies (Physical)         0.0            3.1       0.0      3.4       6.5
Farm Development-Credit
(including contingencies)
- Buildings and Machinery      10.9            0.0      15.4    18.7       45.0
- Incremental short-term
credit                        0.0            0.0       6.7    15.7       22.4
Total Project Cost         10.9           53.6      22.1     75.0     161.6
Estimated
Disbursements:      Fiscal Years     76      77     78     79      80    81 8 82
US$ million      5.2    13.8    18.9   17.8   11.7  5.6  2.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement:         Civil works would be done through force account, or local
Arrangements:       contracting.  Heavy equipment  totalling about $8.7 mil-
lion would be purchased under international competitive
bidding, following Bank "Guidelines for Procurement" by
the agency responsible. Purchases under the credit por-
tion would be through local commercial channels. About
$1 million of retroactive financing is provided.
Technical           About 220 man-months of Consultants services to advise
Assistance:         the project extension service in organization, management,
and in-service training, including additional short-term
technical assistance as needed and recruited on an indi-
vidual basis.
Rate of Return:      18 percent.
Appraisal Report:    Report No:  699-TU
Dated May 19, 1975



JLGARIA         .t                    B                                                                 f oS o.
REECE   f                                         E
SusurhS                                                   ErzinCOfl  Ercururn~~~~~~Suuov
|qana 9 hale             JSokor 'T.              9 '   I        B        S                             rs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rmpa      4"                                                     Ag, t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 R  
Mediterranean              Sea                              _v
a e    S.ka,ya I R.                                             zincon  rzurum                 yazit,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO~ 
CD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c.
CYPRU5S _4 V '.Klg . 
D-  y            99r. br  s   ,
RURAL DEVELPMEN   PROJEC                                                              zgaiwvFaI               R    Ao5
M   63  Kllttos                                               A     Tcapitals  A 
Proiset~~~~~~  area
National~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kn
Proincerntoa boundaries                                                      |ecitqj03u/ -Zt4oia
-_     Mai hihwY            ii                       20  ao  Urtak6y                                                  N 0ZG
-RUM-RAilrad                                              C                                                A =  A 5  F 
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-  nteNOTOO bROunarEsT
0    inC~poine  Oitl
------- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proyince~~~~~-                                   roos    O   G A
boun arie                                                                            J.prO0a
ccipital  43R 
0                                                                                            BoqOZIRWIr  -  p'lo  0  3



