CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1130 TU
Project Agreement
(Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED JUNE 23, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1130 TU
Project Agreement
(Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED JUNE 23, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC (hereinafter called
TCZB).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that TCZB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and TCZB, part of the aggregate proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to TCZB on the tenrms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TCZB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TCZB shall (i) carry out Part A of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, economic and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿4
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose, and (ii) acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises as shall be, from
time to time necessary or useful in the conduct of its business and the carrying
out of Part A of the Project.
(b)   In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, TCZB undertakes that
it shall at all times follow lending and operating policies and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank and including those set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be modified from time to time by agreement among the
Borrower, the Bank and TCZB.
(c)   TCZB shall utilize all funds repaid by Beneficiaries, which are not
needed immediately to make payments of principal, interest and other charges under
the Subsidiary loan, for making Sub-loans to Beneficiaries.
(d)   TCZB shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the Project Extension Service to define in detail the responsibilities, functions and
administrative procedures of TCZB and the Project Extension Service for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. TCZB shall: (i) review its annual lending program under the
Project for each of the provinces in the Project Area with the Provincial Advisory
Committee for each such province; and (ii) prepare, jointly with each such
Committee, annual and semi-annual reports on such lending program.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for Part A of the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with
the applicable provisions of, Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, TCZB shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. TCZB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure


﻿5
of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. TCZB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TCZB shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) TCZB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   TCZB shall promptly inform     the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by TCZB of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TCZB
Section 3.01. (a) TCZB shall, with respect to Part A of the Project, at all
times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial
and agricultural practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by adequate, experienced and competent staff.
(b)   TCZB shall designate: (i) its highest-rank official, or his representative,
to serve on the Central Advisory Committee; and (ii) its highest-rank official for
each province in the Project Area, or his representative, to serve on the
corresponding Provincial Advisory Committee.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TCZB shall: (a) establish and maintain separate accounts on
its records to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project;
(b)   register in separate short and medium-term accounts all its receipts
and payments for or in connection with its short- and medium-term lending


﻿6
operations under Part A of the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied, including the following: (i) amounts received from
and payments made to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan; (ii) amounts
disbursed to and received from each Beneficiary under a Sub-loan; and (iii) amounts
provided by the Borrower or TCZB from their own resources to finance Sub-loans.
(c)   (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) hereof and related
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank, in the English language, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than five months after the end of TCZB's fiscal year, (A) certified
copies of such accounts and related statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning such accounts and related statements of TCZB and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from -time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of TCZB
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted


﻿7
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For TCZB:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
ZERBANK
Ankara
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of TCZB or by TCZB on behalf of the Borrower under Section 2.09 of the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Secretary General of TCZB or such
other person or persons as TCZB shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. TCZB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of TCZB, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by TCZB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement or Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
By /s/ Muainmer Akinci
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part A of Project
A.    Lending Policies
Short-term Sub-loans will be made to eligible Beneficiaries for meeting current
cultivation expenses and for purchases of seeds, fertilizers and chemicals. Such
Sub-loans will be made to Beneficiaries who are judged to be competent and able
to effectively use the financing of the inputs to improve production and
productivity of their farms.
Medium-term Sub-loans will be made to eligible Beneficiaries for the financing
of investments in farm machinery comprising tractors and implements and of
construction of infrastructure on farms, primarily buildings for livestock. Such
Sub-loans will be made only for investments which have reasonable prospects of
being technically feasible, financially viable and economically sound.
Short- and medium-term Sub-loans will be granted only to those Beneficiaries
who are judged by TCZB, in accordance with its normal administrative procedures,
as likely to be creditworthy during the periods in which the Sub-loans are
outstanding.
TCZB will accept as security from Beneficiaries, depending on the
circumstances, not only real estate mortgages but also: (i) in the case of short-term
Sub-loans, guarantees of third parties; and (ii) in the case of medium-term Sub-loans,
chattel mortgages on livestock and equipment plus guarantees of third parties. In
evaluating the adequacy of collateral offered to it, TCZB will take into account
the estimated increased real estate values from developments to be financed from
the proceeds of its Sub-loans.
B.    Procedures
Procedures for preparing, appraising and supervising Sub-loans will be as
follows:
(a)   Short-term  Sub-loans: The Project Extension Service, in providing
technical assistance to farmers in accordance with Part B(l) of the
Project, will endeavour to increase coverage of farmers as rapidly as
possible. The Project Extension Service will certify the suitability of
such farmers to receive short-term Sub-loans. Standard guidelines for


﻿10
financing per hectare for each crop will be established jointly by TCZB
and the Project Extension Service, at the beginning of the Project and
revised annually thereafter. TCZB will make short-term Sub-loans to
all certified farmers in accordance with such standard guidelines.
Short-term Sub-loans will be disbursed in installments, as appropriate,
on prior certification by the Project Extension Service.
(b)   Medium-term   Sub-loans: The Project Extension Service will assist
prospective  Beneficiaries  in  preparing  development   plans   for
investments requiring medium-term Sub-loans. The technical and
financial appraisal of medium-term Sub-loans applications will be
prepared by the Project Extension Service for submission to TCZB.
Supervision of operations of Beneficiaries of medium-term Sub-loans
will be the joint responsibility of TCZB and the Project Extension
Service.
C.    Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
To enable TCZB to fulfill its obligations under the Project Agreement and
to protect its interests and those of the Bank, each Sub-loan Contract will include,
inter alia, the following:
(a)   Terms and conditions applicable to all Sub-loans
(i)         Sub-loans will be denominated and repayable in liras;
(ii)        interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-loan will
be payable in liras at the rate of not less than eleven
percent (11%) per annum inclusive of all commissions,
taxes and any other charges, or at such other rates as shall
be agreed among the Borrower, the Bank and TCZB,
provided, however, that TCZB should be allowed a spread
of not less than 2-1/2%;
(iii)       The goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the purposes
approved by TCZB and the Project Extension Service;
(iv)        the right of TCZB and the Bank to inspect the premises,
the improvement of which is financed by the Sub-loan,
any equipment, materials or inputs financed by the
Sub-loan, the business of the Beneficiary, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;


﻿11
(v)         the right to obtain all such information as TCZB or the
Bank will reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary;
(vi)        the right to require that the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan will be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability thereof, and availability of service and spare
parts therefor; and
(vii)       the right to suspend or terminate access by the Beneficiary
to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure
by him to perform his obligations under the Sub-loan
Contract and, in appropriate cases, to premature the
Sub-loan.
(b)   Terms and conditions applicable to short-term Sub-loans
(i)         the repayment period will not exceed one (1) year; and
(ii)        the short-term Sub-loans will be in amounts not exceeding
the estimated expenses, based on the established standard
guidelines as indicated in paragraph B herein.
(c)   Terms and conditions applicable to medium-term Sub-loans
(i)         the right to require the Beneficiary to carry out his
development plan, as approved by the Project Extension
Service, and to carry on his business, with due diligence
and  efficiency  and  in  accordance with    appropriate
technical, agricultural, commercial and financial practices
and standards, and to maintain adequate records;
(ii)        the right to require the Beneficiaries to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, any imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
medium-term Sub-loans against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation;
(iii)       the maximum    permissible repayment periods, including
grace, for medium-term Sub-loans will be as follows:


﻿12
Period of Repayment
Years
(including 1 year of grace)
For farm equipment                          5
For construction of
farm infrastructure                         7
(iv)        the amount of medium-term Sub-loans will not normally
exceed the equivalent of approximately the following
percentages of the estimated cost of the investments to
be financed therewith:
1.    75%  in the case of medium-term     Sub-loans for
investments in farm machinery; and
2.    80%  in the case of medium-term     Sub-loans for
investments in construction of infrastructure on
farms.
D.    Approvals and Limitations
1.    TCZB will submit to the Bank for approval standard forms of Sub-loan
Contracts to be used in respect of (a) short-term Sub-loans (b) medium-term
Sub-loans for farm machinery and (c) medium-term Sub-loans for construction of
farm infrastructure. TCZB will also submit to the Bank for approval standard forms,
if any, to be used for Sub-loan applications.
2.    The standard guidelines for short-term Sub-loans as indicated in paragraph
B herein will be submitted by TCZB for the Bank's approval, at the beginning
of the Project and whenever such guidelines are revised thereafter.
3.    TCZB and the Project Extension Service will submit to the Bank sample
standard appraisal reports to be used in the evaluation of medium-term Sub-loans,
separately for farm machinery and construction of farm infrastructure.
4.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TCZB will not make to any single
Beneficiary any Sub-loan which by itself or aggregated with any other Sub-loan
to any such Beneficiary, exceeds the equivalent of $20,000.
5.    TCZB and the Project Extension Service will regularly visit the establishments
of Beneficiaries to ensure that the Sub-loan amounts drawn are applied exclusively
for the purposes for which they were lent.


