CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1130 TU
Loan Agreement
(Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 23, 1975


﻿CONFORIED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1130 TU
Loan Agreement
(Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 23, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1975, between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts B, C and D of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower
through, or with the assistance of, the Executing Agencies;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of the Turkish Republic (hereinafter referred to as TCZB), certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of Part A of the Project have been
undertaken by TCZB;
(D)   The Borrower is willing to make part of the proceeds of the Loan
available to TCZB for the carrying out of Part A of the Project, as hereinafter
set forth; and
(E)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and TCZB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
TCZB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TCZB pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary loan" means a loan made by the Borrower to TCZB under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Project Area" means the area within the provinces of Corum and
Cankiri where an integrated rural development project is to be carried out;
(e)   "Central Advisory Committee" means the advisory committee to be
set up by the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.06(a)(i) of this Agreement;
(f)   "Provincial Advisory  Committee"  means any    of the advisory
committees to be set up by the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.06(a)(v)
of this Agreement;
(g)   "DPT" means the State Planning Organization, an agency of the
Borrower:
(h)   "Project Extension Service" means the agency to be set up by the
Borrower in accordance with Section 3.03(a)(i) of this Agreement;
(i)   "Veterinary Services" means the General Directory for Veterinary
Services, an agency of the Borrower under the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Livestock of the Borrower;
(j)   "DSI" means the State Hydraulic Works, an agency of the Borrower
under the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of the Borrower;
(k)   "TOPRAKSU" means the General Directorate for Soil and Water
Conservation, an agency of the Borrower under the Ministry of Village Affairs
of the Borrower;
(1)   "YSE" means the General Directorate of Village Roads, Water and
Electricity Works, an agency of the Borrower under the Ministry of Village Affairs
of the Borrower;


﻿5
(in) "TOPRAK-ISKAN" means the General Directorate of Land and
Resettlement Works, an agency of the Borrower under the Ministry of Village
Affairs of the Borrower;
(n)   "TEK" means the Turkish Electricity Authority, a state economic
enterprise of the Borrower established and operating under Law No. 1312, dated
July 15, 1970, of the Borrower, as amended;
(o)   "Executing Agencies" means collectively the agencies and legal entities
referred to in parargaphs (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (1), (m) and (n) hereof, and such
term shall include any other appropriate agencies and legal entities of the Borrower
which shall participate in the carrying out of the Project;
(p)   "Beneficiary" means a person to which TCZB proposes to make or
has made a Sub-loan;
(q)   "Sub-loan" means a short- or medium-term loan made by TCZB under
Part A of the Project to a Beneficiary for improving farm facilities, infrastructure,
pastures, crops and livestock herd and/or increasing their productivity, in accordance
with the lending and operating policies and procedures set forth in the Schedule
to the Project Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement among the Borrower, the Bank and TCZB;
(r)   "Sub-loan Contract" means the Contract for any Sub-loan; and
(s)   "lira" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out


﻿6
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby designates TCZB for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken in respect of Part A of the
Project under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C and D of the Project
through, or with the assistance of, the appropriate Executing Agencies and shall
cause TCZB and the Project Extension Service to carry out Part A of the Project,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
agricultural, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend that part of the proceeds of the Loan which
is withdrawn on account of expenditures under Part A of the Project to TCZB
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
TCZB, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i)         cause TCZB to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all
the obligations therein set forth;
(ii)       take and cause all its agencies to take all action which shall
be necessary or appropriate on their part to enable TCZB to
perform all of such obligations and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or in terfere with such
performance; and
(iii)       provide, or cause to be provided, to TCZE.. on a basis acceptable
to the Bank, such funds in liras, in addition to the proceeds
of the Loan and TCZB's own resources, as shall be necessary
to enabIc TCZB to disburse the full amounts of Sub-loans (the
funds to be provided by the Borrower and TCZB are now
estimated to aggregate the equivalent of not less than six million
seven hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000) for short-term
lending and six million eight hundred thousand dollars
($6,800,000) for medium-term lending).
Section 3.02. The lending and operating policies and Procedures for carrying
out Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement among
the Borrower, the Bank and TCZB.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of assisting in carrying out of Part B.1
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)         establish under the responsibility of its Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Livestock and operate thereafter a Project
Extension Service for the Project Area;
(ii)        employ in the Project Extension Service the following qualified
and experienced staff:


﻿8
(A)   a Director;
(B)   a Deputy Director for each of the provinces included in
the Project Area; and
(C)   promptly as required, such other supporting staff as shall
be necessary for the efficient operation of the Project
Extension Service; and
(iii)       without limiting the generality of the provisions in paragraph
(a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, provide, or cause to be
provided, such Project Extension Service, promptly as needed,
with such facilities, funds and other resources as shall be required
for the efficient operation thereof.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the provisions in paragraph (a) of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying
out Part B.2 of the Project, provide, or cause to be provided, the Veterinary Services
promptly as required with such facilities, personnel, equipment, funds, and other
resources as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of carrying out Part D(1)(2) of the Project,
the Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, annual training programs
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) For assisting the Project Extension Service in the carrying
out of Part B. 1 of the Project, the Borrower shall, within three months from the
Effective Date, or such later date as shall be agreed with the Bank, employ three
internationally-recruited consultants, or such other number as shall be agreed with
the Bank, to advise, inter alia, in organization, management and tiaining, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   During the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
such other consultants, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required, in the opinion
of the Borrower and the Bank, for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, to the satisfaction of the Bank:
(i)         within three months from the Effective Date or such later date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, establish under the


﻿9
responsibility of DPT and operate until the date of the
completion of the Project, a Central Advisory Committee to,
inter alia (1) coordinate and integrate all Project activities with
the Executing Agencies and TCZB, with any other relevant
ministries, authorities and agencies of the Borrower, and with
the Bank; and (2) approve the annual programs and review the
progress reports prepared by the Executing Agencies and TCZB
on the carrying out of the Project, and advise on policy matters;
(ii)        appoint to the Central Advisory Committee a representative of
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower and the highest-rank
official, or his representative, of each Executing Agency and
TCZB; the highest-rank official, or his representative, of DPT
to be the Chairman of the Central Advisory Committee;
(iii)       cause DPT to provide secretarial services to the Central Advisory
Committee;
(iv)        cause the Central Advisory Committee to hold meetings, with
full attendance, at least every six months, to perform    the
functions referred to in (i) hereof;
(v)         within three months from the Effective Date or such later date
as shall be agreed with the Bank, establish and operate until
the date of the completion of the Project, a Provincial Advisory
Committee for each of the provinces in the Project Area, under
the chairmanship of the corresponding provincial governor, to,
inter alia, (1) coordinate and integrate all Project activities in
each province in the Project Area with the Executing Agencies
and TCZB, with any other relevant ministries, authorities and
agencies of the Borrower; and (2) review and transmit to the
Central Advisory Committee for further transmittal to the Bank,
the annual and semi-annual programs and progress reports
prepared by the Executing Agencies and TCZB on the carrying
out of the Project in each province in the Project Area;
(vi)        appoint to each Provincial Advisory Committee the Director of
the   Project  Extension   Service  referred  to  in  Section
3.03(a)(ii)(A) of this Agreement, who shall be the secretary of
each such Provincial Advisory Committee, and the highest-rank
official for each such province, or his representative, of each
of the Executing Agencies and TCZB; and


﻿10
(vii)       cause each Provincial Advisory Committee to hold meetings, with
full attendance, at least every three months, to perform the
functions referred to in (v) hereof.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the provisions in paragraph (a) of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided,
the Central Advisory Committee and the Provincial Advisory Committees, promptly
as needed, with such qualified and experienced supporting staff, facilities, funds
and other resources as shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall insure or cause to be insured, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan       against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08.(a) The Borrower shall, with respect to the Project, furnish or
cause to be furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, programs and semi-annual reports of the Executing Agencies and
TCZB, training programs, contract documents and work and procurement schedules,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, until five years after the Closing Date, such detailed records on selected
farms and villages in the Project Area as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower
to monitor accurately the effects of the Project; (iii) shall enable, or cause to
be enabled, the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to see the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iv) shall
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in


﻿11
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt inl the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
)orrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including assets held by the T.C. Merkez Bankasi or any
other institution  performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in    accordance with   consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿12
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon its obligations contained in Section
4.02 above, the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause each Executing Agency to establish and maintain separate
accounts on its records to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in
such accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection with the Project,
in accordance with appropriate accounting principles consistently applied; and
(b)   cause each Executing Agency to: (i) have the accounts referred to
in (a) hereof and related statements for each fiscal year audited, ini accordance
with appropifate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, in the English language, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than five months after the end of such
agency's fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such accounts and related statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such accounts and
related statements of such agency and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain, and renew from
time to time as necessary, or cause to be operated, maintained and renewed, the
works and facilities included in the Project, in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, economic and financial policies and practices.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Borrower shall:
(i)         cause the villages using the facilities completed under Part C(7)
of the Project to operate and maintain, and renew from time
to  time as necessary, such    facilities, at their expense, in
accordance with appropriate policies and practices; and
(ii)        make periodic inspections of such facilities.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall promptly make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for the setting of charges levied on farmers using the works included
in Part C(l )(2) of the Project at levels which will provide revenues at least sufficient
to cover all on-farm development as well as operating and maintenance costs and,
in addition, provide for the recovery, on reasonable terms and conditions, of the
remaining monies invested in Parts C(l)(2) of the Project together with reasonable
interest thereon, taking into account the relationship of the investment recovery
rate to farmers' incentives and capacity to pay. Such charges will be subject to
periodic reviews at intervals not exceeding five years.


﻿13
Section 4.06. If any private house connections are installed in relation to
the works included in Part C(5) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)         take, or cause to be taken, all steps necessary to recover all
costs of any such connections as from the date of their
completion; and
(ii)        provide, or cause YSE to provide, the councils of the villages
where any such connections are installed, with the necessary
assistance for the establishment of adequate tariff structures and
collection practices to recover such costs.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take all action, including the granting of
all necessary authorizations, import licenses and other approvals required, to ensure
the timely procurement of the goods and services required for the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)   TCZB shall have failed to perform any obligation of TCZB under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TCZB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(c)   any legal provision governing or applicable to the organization or
operations of TCZB shall have been amended in sucli a manner, suspended or
abrogated so as to threaten, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of TCZB to
carry out its obligations under the Project Agreement or the efficiency of its
operations;
(d)   TCZB shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by TCZB or by others whereby
any of the property of TCZB shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
and
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishnient of TCZB or for the suspension
of TCZB's operations.


﻿14
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof,
namely, any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of TCZB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and TCZB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary administrative and governmental action;
(c)   the Project Extension Service referred to in Section 3.03(a)(i) of this
Agreement has been established to the satisfaction of the Bank; and
(d)   the Director and the Deputy Directors referred to in Section
3.03(a)(ii)(A) and (B) of this Agreement have been appointed by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TCZB, and is legally binding upon TCZB
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TCZB,
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrow-.r and TCZB in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 23, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿15
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Subject to the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
MALIYE
HAZINE
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿16
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Muammer Akinci
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Sub-loans to
Beneficiaries
(Part A of the
Project)
(a)   Medium-term             18,700,000          55% of amounts
Sub-loans                                   disbursed
(b)   Short-term              15,700,000          70% of amounts
Sub-loans                                   disbursed in the
first year after
the date of this
Agreement
70% of amounts dis-
bursed in any sub-
seqUent year over and
above the aggregate
amounts disbursed in
the preceding year
(2)  Project Exten-                 6,000,000          50%
sion Service
and Veterinary
Services (Part
B of the Pro-
ject)


﻿18
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3)  Machinery and                 10,200,000          100% of foreign
equipment (Part                                  expenditures or
C of the Proj-                                    100% of the ex-
ect)                                             factory cost of
locally produced
goods
(4)   Civil works (Part
C of the Project)
(a)   Part C(l)(2)(3)         18,400,000          38%
(4)(5)
(b)   Part C(6)(7)             1,800,000          15%
(5)   Consultants'
services
(a)  Part D(3)                    50,000          100%
(b)  Other                       450,000          100%
(6)  Training                         300,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(7)   Unallocated                   3,400,000
TOTAL        75,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.


﻿19
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made on account of expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1974 for the Corum dam and the Kumbaba pumping projects under
Part C(1) of the Project in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a program of the Borrower to develop the Project
Area by increasing the production of crops and livestock, constructing new irrigation
facilities and carrying out on-farm development, providing credit and technical
services, and improving social services.
The Project consists of:
Part A:     Agricultural Credit
The provision through TCZB of short-term loans to project farmers for
cultivation expenses, seeds, fertilizers and chemicals, and medium-term loans to
project farmers for farm machinery, and construction of buildings for livestock.
Part B:      Technical Services
(1)   The provision through the Project Extension Service, of technical
assistance to increase the production of crops and livestock, including,
inter alia:
(i)         assistance to farmers in crop and animal husbandry,
including animal feeding, seed bed preparation, seeding,
weed control, pest control, harvesting and processing;
(ii)        assistance to farmers in the preparation of technical and
financial plans for the credit applications for Part A
hereof; and
(iii)       cooperation with TCZB in the appraisal and supervision
of the short- and medium-term Sub-loans to project
farmers under Part A hereof.
(2)   The provision through the Veterinary Services of technical assistance
to project farmers in animal health, animal disease control and the
improvement of livestock through selective breeding and artificial
insemination.
Part C:     Project Works
(1)   Construction by DSI of five irrigation and drainage systems for about
7,500 hectares of land.


﻿21
(2)   Construction by TOPRAKSU of 13 small irrigation schemes for about
5,050 hectares of land and on-farm development for about 7,500
hectares of land, and the construction of about 17 dams under 15
meters in height to provide water for livestock.
(3)   Construction by YSE of about 65 kilometers of access roads and
rehabilitation of about 164 kilometers of existing access roads.
(4)   Maintenance by YSE of about 904 kilometers of new and existing
access roads.
(5)   Provision by YSE of about 177 units for drinking water supplies and
facilities to about 120 villages.
(6)   Supply of electricity by TEK to about 233 settlement areas.
(7)   Construction by TOPRAK-ISKAN of social facilities, in about 63
villages, consisting of community meeting halls, public laundries and
public baths.
Part D:    Training and Studies
(1)   Training of farmers participating in the operation and maintenance of
the works included in Part C of the Project.
(2)   Training on the job and abroad of staff engaged in services related
to the carrying out of the Project.
(3)   Studies on the social and economic conditions in the Project Area,
the list and scope of such studies to be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(4)   Feasibility studies of future rural development projects.
Part C of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1981                                      825,000
May 15, 1982                                           860,000
November 15, 1982                                      895,000
May 15, 1983                                           935,000
November 15, 1983                                      975,000
May 15, 1984                                         1,015,000
November 15, 1984                                    1,060,000
May 15, 1985                                         1,105,000
November 15, 1985                                    1,150,000
May 15, 1986                                         1,200,000
November 15, 1986                                    1,250,000
May 15, 1987                                         1,305,000
November 15, 1987                                    1,360,000
May 15, 1988                                         1,420,000
November 15, 1988                                    1,480,000
May 15, 1989                                         1,540,000
November 15, 1989                                    1,605,000
May 15, 1990                                         1,675,000
November 15, 1990                                    1,745,000
May 15, 1991                                         1,820,000
November 15, 1991                                    1,895,000
May 15, 1992                                         1,980,000
November 15, 1992                                    2,060,000
May 15, 1993                                         2,150,000
November 15, 1993                                    2,240,000
May 15, 1994                                         2,335,000
November 15, 1994                                    2,435,000
May 15, 1995                                         2,540,000
November 15, 1995                                    2,645,000
May 15, 1996                                         2,760,000
November 15, 1996                                    2,875,000
May 15, 1997                                         3,000,000
November 15, 1997                                    3,125,000
May 15, 1998                                         3,260,000
November 15, 1998                                    3,400,000
May 15, 1999                                         3,540,000
November 15, 1999                                    3,690,000
May 15, 2000                                         3,850,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿23
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three                                     1%
years before
maturity
More than three                                     2-1/4%
years but not more
than six years
before maturity
More than six years                                    4%
but not more than
eleven years before
maturity
More than eleven                                    5-1/2%
years but not more
than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years                             7-1/4%
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity
More than twenty-one                                   8%
years but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three                              8-1/2%
years before maturity


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Contracts for machinery and equipment included in Category 3 of paragraph
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be let under procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts for civil works shall be awarded under local competitive bidding
procedures, provided, however, that (i) bids are requested through local advertising
and, in the case of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more,
notice is given to all Embassy representatives in Turkey of countries which are
members of the Bank and Switzerland; and (ii) bids are permitted on the basis
of one single global contract, a grouping of contracts or single contracts for each
item to be procured. Notwithstanding the preceding, the Borrower may, at its
option, carry out or cause to be carried out, the works included in the Project
by force account. In such case the Borrower shall (i) prepare or cause to be
prepared, to the extent required, detailed engineering to carry out such works;
and (ii) make available such detailed engineering to the Bank for its approval before
initiation of the works.
3.    Procurement of other goods and services shall be carried out through local
commercial channels including private traders and dealers, State trading entities
and cooperatives.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Turkey may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿25
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Turkey if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Turkey equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: rll other bids offering goods manufactured in Turkey.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 1 5% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    With respect to all contracts included in Part A.1 of this Schedule:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other


﻿26
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be follow- ,d for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding docurnents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders. Two copies of the documents and
supplements, as issued, shall be furnished to the Bank.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of fundss from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to all contracts included in Part A.2 of this Schedule, estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents and shall -make such modifications in the said documents or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders. Two copies of the documents and supplements, as issued, shall
be furnished to the Bank.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it has awarded the contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿27
(c)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract included in Part A.2 of this Schedule, estimated
to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract.


