Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5453 
Operation Name 
RESTORING EQUITABLE GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT 
PROGRAMMATIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (35%);Law and justice 
(25%);Sub-national government administration (20%);Health 
(10%);Other social services (10%) 
Project ID 
P112495 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
Implementing Agency 
 
Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Inonu Bulvari, Eskisehir Yolu 
Emek 
Ankara 
Turkey 
06530 
Tel: (90-312) 204-6000 
Fax: (90-312) 212-8550 
hazine@hazine.gov.tr 
Date PID Prepared 
February 12, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 14, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
March 23, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background:
 Turkey is now passing through a transition from 
weathering the global financial crisis to re-establishing fiscal balance and sustainable, shared 
growth.
 The crisis has placed strains on Turkey’s economy and public finances. 
Manufacturing has been hard hit, with effects on unemployment and economic hardships at 
the household level. At the same time, fundamental strengths have kept Turkey on course to 
benefit from the global recovery. The first step to returning to growth is to move from crisis-
related fiscal expansion to balance and avoid crowding out the private-sector led recovery. 
The second step is to reinvigorate the business climate reforms and human-capital 
investments that are central to Turkey’s long-term goals. 
 
2. 
Operation Objectives: 
The program supported by the REGE-DPL focuses on the transition 
from managing the impact of the global crisis to fiscal consolidation and shared growth and 
aims to contribute to the following main objectives: (1) economic management; (2) PFM; (3) 
affordable universal healthcare and improved educational access; (4) employment; (5) 
improved investment climate; (6) increased financial intermediation, especially to SMEs. The 
proposed program supports all three of the CPS pillars, which are (i) improved 
competitiveness and employment, (ii) equitable human and social development, and (iii) 
efficient provision of high-quality public services 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement: 
The proposed operation forms part of the CPS covering 
FY2008-11. The CPS was endorsed by the Executive Board on February 28, 2008. Its goal is 
Page  2
for the Bank Group to partner Turkey in realizing the country’s development vision—fast 
and sustained growth with equity—through full integration with the Government’s 
development strategy. Accordingly, the CPS is shaped directly by Turkey’s Ninth 
Development Plan and by the Government Program: it aims to contribute to three of the 
Plan’s development pillars: (i) improved competitiveness and employment, (ii) equitable 
human and social development, and (iii) efficient provision of high-quality public services. 
 
4. 
Financing: 
The loan will be financed by the International Bank for Restructuring and 
Development (IBRD). The borrower contribution is zero and total proposed amount is USD 
1.3 billion. 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: 
The proposed loan will follow the 
Bank’s disbursement procedures for DPLs. The untied finances will be disbursed against 
satisfactory implementation of the program and not tied to any specific purchases and no 
procurement requirements will be needed. Upon approval of the loan and notification by the 
Bank of Loan effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal application. The 
IBRD will deposit the proceeds of the loan with the CBRT, which will form part of the 
official FX reserves at the request of the Undersecretariat of Treasury. The Government will 
utilize the proceeds of the loan in foreign currency for either foreign debt servicing or for 
crediting the local currency equivalent into the treasury single account for financing budgeted 
expenses. Prior to that, the borrower will pay a front-end fee amounting to [0.25] percent of 
the loan amount from its own resources. If, after deposit in this CBRT account, the proceeds 
of the loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, for financing items imported from 
non-member countries or goods or services on the IBRD standard negative list), the IBRD 
will require the borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible 
purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in which case the IBRD will cancel 
an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks: 
With the stabilization of the Turkish economy, the proposed operation 
supports the Government’s focus on measures to return to fiscal balance in the medium term. 
The proposed operation supports the underpinnings of the government’s MTP, the key to this 
transition. Foremost among these are global health budgeting measures to rein in health 
spending and measures to curtail demand for more costly private health care. Also important 
is the continued implementation of the social security reform passed in 2008, key to 
maintaining long-term fiscal balance and thus confidence in the economy, and administrative 
reforms to social security. Third, public financial measures aim to improve fiscal control and 
transparency.  There are four main risks to the program’s outcomes: (i) Global economic risk 
factors; (ii) Economic management risks which comes from the challenge to macroeconomic, 
especially fiscal, management in the face of the current slowdown; (iii) Political risks which 
relate to continuing domestic political differences and the possibility of declining public 
support for reforms due to the impact of the crisis; (iv) social risks of high unemployment 
and increased poverty, especially among young people. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects: 
The policies and reforms of the 
government in the REGE-DPL program are expected to have, overall, positive distributional 
Page  3
and poverty reduction impacts in Turkey. The current REGE-DPL operation has dual 
overarching themes; crisis response and transition to a long-term sustainable growth path. 
The crisis response measures supported by the operation mitigate the worsening in demand 
conditions and tightening global liquidity through fiscal and monetary measures as well as 
employment promoting measures, including temporary ones. The second set of measures 
focuses on the structural reform agenda, is longer term in nature, and supports long-term 
sustainable growth.  The reforms supported by the proposed operation are not likely to cause 
significant effects on the country’s environment or natural resources. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Mark Roland Thomas 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5242+8359 / 90-312-459-8359 
Fax: 5242+8500/ 90-312-446-2442 
Email: mthomas1@worldbank.org 
Location: Ankara, Turkey (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
