 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14712

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/16/2015

               Country: Chile
             Project ID: P103441                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Second Public                 Project Costs (US$M):                      46.6                 81.5
                         Expenditure
                         Management
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       24.8                 24.8
      Sector Board:      Public Sector                Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Governance
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                             08/28/2007
                                                             Closing Date:           06/30/2013         06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Central government administration (88%); Sub-national government administration (12%)
         Theme(s):        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (40%); Municipal finance (20%);
                          Decentralization (20%); Debt management and fiscal sustainability (20%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Malathi S.                Monika Huppi            Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2
Jayawickrama

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 10) and the Loan Agreement (LA, Schedule 1) the Project
    Objective was to increase the efficiency of operations regarding financial management, budget formulation, and
    budget execution, and the transparency of public expenditure management at the central and municipal level
    through the implementation of an updated, functionally enhanced and expanded financial administration system
    (SIGFE)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    Component 1: Upgrading and Extending the Financial Information System to the Central Government Entities
    (appraisal: US$31.05m; actual: US$61.74 m). This component was to support the further development and
    consolidation of SIGFE to upgrade and expand its functions and implement it in all Central Government Entities
    by: (i) upgrading and optimizing the ICT and technical design of SIGFE modules; (ii) improving its functionality,
    interoperability, and reporting; and, (iii) implementing data standards issued by Normative Entities in all entities
    using homologated systems.

    Component 2: Improvement of Budget Procedures and Mechanisms of the Management Control System
    (appraisal: US$4.72m; actual: US$1.75m).This component was to focus on enhancing the quality of public
    expenditures by strengthening the Management Control System (MCS) and integrating them into the Budget
    Cycle. Specifically, this component was to support the development and implementation of: (i) a new conceptual
    model for the Budget Cycle, linking the budget classification and the MCS; (ii) an MCS information system; and
    (iii) a new version of the budget formulation system used by the Budget Directorate in the Ministry of Finance
   (DIPRES), Budget Administration System (SIAP). Innovative methods of budget formulation would be developed
   for selected policy modules and the capacity of DIPRES to undertake results-based monitoring and evaluation
   was to be strengthened.

   Component 3: Strengthening Financial Administration at the Municipal Leve l (appraisal: US$7.46m; actual:
   US$8.53m). This component was to focus on: (i) improving the availability of information on municipal budgets
   and on financial transfers; (ii) strengthening financial administration at the municipal level; and (iii) improving the
   effective use of central government transfers to municipalities, for example within the Municipal Fund (Fondo
   Común Municipal). The Office of the Comptroller General in partnership with the Sub-secretariat for Regional
   Development within the Ministry of the Interior (Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Regional y Administración -
   SUBDERE) was to implement this component.

   Component 4: Project Management (appraisal: US$3.37m; actual: US$9.48m). This component was to cover
   operating expenses, related to the following activities: (i) Provision of technical assistance to Central Government
   Entities as part of the implementation of SIGFE or SIGFE-compatible financial administration systems; (ii)
   Strengthening the Government’s capacity to monitor and supervise the overall implementation of the Project.

   The project was restructured in March 2012 following a Government request to: (i) focus on the consolidation of
   the system at central and sub-national levels; (ii) drop activities related to the strengthening of the Management
   Control System (sub-component 2.2) given the Government’s intention to redefine the instruments for
   management control and evaluation; and (iii) reduce the scope of SIAP, eliminating the development of the
   interoperability function.

   The Project Development Objective (PDO) indicator number 8 related to the dropped sub-component (on the
   Management Control System) was eliminated from the Results Framework, the yearly target values for the other
   PDO indicators were revised to better reflect Project progress, and the formulation of PDO indicator number 1
   adjusted. The final target values did not change. The ICR discusses the changes to the PDO indicators.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The original project costs were estimated at US$46.6 million. The final project costs were US$81.5
   million (or 175 percent of the appraisal estimate). The difference of US$34.9 million came from the allocation of
   additional local funds (ICR, p. 13).

   Financing: The total of the IBRD loan was US$24.8 million. The loan was fully disbursed.

   Borrower Contribution : This was US$56.7 million. This includes US$24.8 m, which was the original appraisal
   estimate plus US$34.9 m local additional funds during implementation.

   Dates: There was one extension of the closing date on June 24, 2013, to allow the Bank to continue to provide
   technical support to complete implementation. The project closed on June 30, 2014, one year later than the
   original schedule.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   Substantial. The project's objectives were relevant at appraisal and supported the objectives of the Country
   Partnership Strategy (CPS), 2007-10. The objectives remain relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS),
   2011-16, which identifies public sector modernization as a key results area, and improving performance and
   public financial management (PFM) as one of five subareas of focus. The objectives are also relevant to and
   aligned with President Bachelet’s Government Program for 2014-2018, in which continuing work to further
   improve medium term budget planning is noted as a component of efforts to ensure fiscal responsibility.
   Expansion and strengthening of SIGFE was one of the Government's key initiatives incorporated in the 2007
   Budget law.
b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial. There were clear links between the PDO and the outcomes the Project expected to achieve, and the
   associated activities under the four components. Overall, the design focused on key areas of financial
   management processes that required modernization at both the central and municipal levels to support the
   Project's objectives.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The overall project objective encompasses one broad area, i,.e. improved efficiency and transparency of the
   financial management system. For the purposes of this review, this objective is divided into three separate
   sub-objectives or areas (with several of the outputs and outcomes listed below being inter-related and
   contributing to all three areas). The overarching PDO and the three sub-objectives/areas were expected to be
   achieved through the implementation of a key output-- an updated, functionally enhanced and expanded financial
   administration system (SIGFE).

   The PDO is divided into three sub-objectives/areas at the central and municipal level, (i) increase the efficiency of
   operations regarding financial management
   (ii) increase the efficiency of operations regarding budget formulation and execution
   (iii) increase the transparency of public expenditure management

   Outputs (under (i), (ii) and (iii):
     The SIGFE II system was designed and fully developed.
     The SIGFE system was operationalized -- that is, rolled out and implemented in 86 institutions out of the
       targeted 173. (This number is expected to continue to rise. 31 new institutions will be included in 2015.)
     The system introduced new functionalities such as government asset administration and management of
       international credits, and a module for financial audit.
     At the municipal level, outputs included: hardware and software for the Municipal Financial Information
       System (SIFIM), and the development and implementation of the SIFIM; computational equipment;
       normalization and electrical and data networks; and training.

   (i) increase the efficiency of operations regarding financial management :
   Substantial

   Outcomes under Objective (i):

        With regard to objective (i), the efficiency of financial management operations has increased substantially,
         mainly through changing the management model and the operation of the system from a model based on
         accounting transactions to one based on administrative/financial transactions.
        These changes have contributed to simplifying processes, reducing the requirement of high accounting skills
         to operate the system, and providing better performance management information for decision making.
        As a result of these advances, in 169 institutions, the time required for aggregating the financial data of the
         central government was reduced from a baseline of 30 to the target of 8 days; information is now available
         more quickly, facilitating more efficient financial management. For institutions within the coverage of the
         central government (except the Public Treasury), following the monthly closing period on the 8th of each
         month, information is aggregated in SIGFE the next working day. The baseline of 1 week was reduced to 1
         day. The Public Treasury’s interconnection and reporting systems have also been improved. They now send
         weekly and monthly information to SIGFE.
        Public financial management administration efficiency has been increased by upgrading and expanding the
         national financial administration system and using common standards at central level. Prior to the project,
         aggregated information was only available on demand (baseline). Now there is 100% reconciliation of
         expenditures and revenues in real time with SIGFE.
        At municipal level, the efficiency of the FM system has been enhanced by implementing a system built of
         common standards. The baseline included several incongruent systems used for financial administration at
         municipal level. Now financial information of at least 100 municipalities is included in the FM Information
         System. The target was to have a system that was capable of aggregating the information of all 345
         municipalities.

   (ii) increase the efficiency of operations regarding budget formulation and execution : Substantial
    Outcomes under Objective (ii):
      With regard to objective (ii), the efficiency of budget formulation and execution has improved substantially.
      Based on information from performance and scalability tests, it is projected that the system has the
        processing capacity to manage the targeted 200,000 financial transactions per day (compared with the
        baseline of 95,000) with a response time of 8 seconds, allowing for up to date information for decision
        making.
      SIGFE is now automatically updated with information from the Budget Administration System (SIAP) on the
        initial budget law each year (although manual updates of budget modifications made during the year
        continue) and information entered into the payments module of SIGFE is now automatically reflected in
        budget execution. The time required to update SIGFE (execution) with the data general by the SIAP system
        (formulation and administration) was reduced from 1 week to 1 day.
      While SIAP 2.0 has not been developed, new bidding documents are under preparation, and the process is
        expected to be carried out in 2015.

    (iii) increase the transparency of public expenditure management : Substantial

    Outcomes under Objective (iii):
      Transparency of public expenditure management has increased substantially, by reducing the time required
        for aggregating the financial data of the central government from 30 to 8 days (as mentioned above). This
        has improved mechanisms to support oversight and transparency of public expenditure management.
      Entities now have real time, online access to their information, and oversight entities have access to
        information the next day after the end of the period, facilitating accountability.
      The transparency of the public expenditure management system has increased due to the development of a
        Municipal Financial Information System. Prior to the project, aggregated information was available in 180
        days. The target was to have information for all 345 municipalities available in 30 days. This has been
        achieved in 100 municipalities. This partial achievement has still contributed to greater transparency and
        efficiency in budget formulation and execution through the inclusion of a budget module.
      This represents a significant advancement in Chile, ensuring the compatibility of information provided to
        different central government agencies and timely access to information. Previously, information was
        heterogeneous and difficult to combine.
      Municipalities using the system now do not have to enter information in multiple systems. The system
        facilitates communication with other information systems, generates automatic reports, and facilitates
        medium term financial planning.

5. Efficiency:

    No economic or financial analysis was conducted, either at appraisal or at closure. The total registered project
    costs (including local support) for the Project which was implemented over the course of six and a half years were
    US$81.56 million (approximately US$34.9 million more than expected at design, with the difference coming from
    the allocation of additional local funds). Hardware and software were purchased for all institutions at once, even
    though a gradual implementation strategy was to be followed.

    The ICR notes that when total costs ascribed to local support but not directly imputable to the Project are
    excluded (these include amortization repayments of the loan and the corresponding interest and operational
    costs for SIGFE I in the first half of 2008), total project costs amount to US$70.04 million. This, when compared
    to anticipated costs of US$46.6 million, is larger than expected; however, is less than the PAD estimates of the
    cost of comparable projects in other countries, which are estimated to cost one hundred percent more than
    SIGFE (ICR, p. 13).

    Additionally, the ICR notes that the time taken to implement SIGFE II was below the average found in World
    Bank research for completed Financial Management Information System (FMIS) projects (7.9 years), and,
    together, the cumulative time for SIGFE I and II (approximately 11 years) was also less than the time required for
    back-to-back FMIS projects in other countries in the region.

    Until project closure, only 50% of the targeted institutions were covered, yet costs were substantially higher than
    estimated at appraisal. This was partly due to the additional costs related to the parallel operation of SIGFE I for
    longer than anticipated, and the need to hire support to address the performance challenges encountered during
    implementation. On balance, efficiency is rated modest.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :
                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                        No
   ICR estimate                     No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   The objectives and design of the project were substantially relevant, as discussed above. The Project achieved
   the PDO, with the exception of two PDO indicators that were only partially met. While most outcome targets in
   terms of more efficient processing of financial management information and financial transactions were met, the
   system had only been rolled out to half the agencies at project closure, with additional roll out expected to happen
   in 2015.

   Efficiency is rated modest. Taken together, and in line with the Harmonized Evaluation Criteria, IEG assesses the
   project's outcome as moderately satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Chile has advanced its financial management system and significantly enhanced its efficiency through the
   development and roll out of the SIGFE II system. About half of the central government entities use the system
   (with additional entities expected to join in the near future). SIGFE II is well on its way to achieving the critical
   mass necessary to become the Government’s dominant financial management system. Through the
   implementation process, the Government has gained substantial experience in operating the system and
   trouble-shooting the various problems that have arisen, and is well equipped to continue to do so following
   project completion. The work undertaken under this Project serves as a solid foundation for future advances
   which are anticipated in the short to medium-term (ICR, p. 15).

   At the municipal level, the implementation of the SIFIM has provided participating municipalities with needed
   equipment and systems to better manage their financial information, and with training targeted toward enhancing
   local staff’s capacity. There is demand for the incorporation of additional municipalities, with the Government
   regularly receiving requests for addition to the system. There are plans for municipalities using the system to
   provide training to their peer municipalities in its use, important for both strengthening municipal capacity as well
   as shifting responsibility for the system to the municipal level.

   Going forward, the remaining large central government entities still need to be incorporated. This is still pending.
   Also, at the municipal level, SIFIM continues to be financed by the central government, leading to some
   questions about its long term sustainability. Additionally, the high rotation of municipal staff with political cycles
   may require regular efforts to maintain effective municipal use of the system.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Project was intended to build upon past Bank support and the achievements made under the previous
   Public Expenditure Management Project by continuing to consolidate and expand the SIGFE system. A
   number of studies had confirmed that Chile’s recent reforms had left in place a high level of fiscal
   transparency and a budgeting system that clearly articulated government priorities, with tools that allowed for
   the evaluation of budget performance. However, as indicated by international experience, the consolidation
   and deepening of public sector reforms required continuous modernization. The Project had strong political
   support from the highest authorities. It was to be implemented by the same Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
   managing SIGFE, established in DIPRES, which had gained considerable experience both in implementation
   of the public financial management system and in working with Bank procedures.
   The Bank team drew on significant experience in Chile in general, and incorporated lessons from the previous
   project into project design. The design also identified several mitigation measures to tackle risks that might
   have affected both the overall PDO and component results. The Results Framework, however, could have
   been more clearly presented.

   There were two implementation risks that were not anticipated in the design: these were the risk of having to
   regain political support after a change in government administration; and the possibility that using state of the
   art technology can pose risks in terms of limited availability of expertise. These two factors contributed to
   delays in implementation. Project preparation also did not fully consider the coordination arrangements
   between DIPRES, Sub-Secretariat for Regional Development and Administration (SUBDERE) and Office of
   the Comptroller General (CGR) for the design and implementation of the municipal information aggregator.
   This shortcoming was also felt during implementation of this activity.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team provided continuous and strong technical and implementation support during Project
   execution. There were regular supervision missions and at least two Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
   were filed each calendar year. The Bank team's ability to convene the international expertise critical to the
   development of SIGFE II, as well as its support in addressing the performance issues encountered following
   roll out, were highly valued by the counterpart. The Bank played a key role in bringing together and facilitating
   the difficult coordination between the three institutions (SUBDERE, DIPRES and the Comptroller General
   (CGR))

   Implementation support missions included a mix of international experts (from OEDC and other LAC
   countries) and IT experts to support the government in solving functional and IT issues that appeared during
   implementation. While the 2012 restructuring represents a strong effort to adjust to the evolving
   implementation context and its impact on Government priorities, a more detailed review of the Results
   Framework and Monitoring (PAD, Annex 3) at that time could have helped to adjust for the differences
   between its Results Framework and its matrix for results monitoring (see Section 10 below and ICR, Section
   2.3).



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government played a key role in project implementation. As stated in the ICR, the Government was
   strongly committed to the Project objectives. The deployment of SIGFE II continued to advance in spite of
   mid-project changes in administration in March 2010. With a change of the political party for the first time in
   20 years, Implementation suffered a temporary halt (of between 3 to 4 months) while the new government
   became familiar with the Project's objectives and assessed their alignment with its priorities. coordination
   between SUBDERE, DIPRES and the Office of the Comptroller General (CGR) also posed a challenge to
   design and implementation of the municipal system aggregator.


  Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   As stated in the ICR, the institutional arrangements for the implementation of the project were devised to
   ensure continuity with the previous operation, and in practice, provided a strong foundation for work under this
   Project. The PIU established within DIPRES was successfully assimilated into the Government’s structure
    during Project implementation, and comprised a very solid project management and technical team. During
    implementation, it did a good job of adjusting to the range of challenges encountered (including both the
    technical issues associated with the SIGFE system as well as shifting Government priorities), proactively
    adjusting to the circumstances and seeking solutions where possible.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E system presented in the PAD (p. 39-50) is confusing. Outcome indicators are presented on p. 39-40;
   however, in the subsequent pages, some of these are presented as component indicators. As mentioned under
   the Bank's quality at entry section, the M&E framework could have been more clearly presented. Overall, the
   indicators were relevant and measured the project objectives.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The PIU established a Project Management Office (PMO) with the Information Technologies Division of DIPRES
   (DTI) to monitor progress on Project activities. The PMO met bi-weekly with the coordinator of each activity to
   track progress and prepare a dashboard with project indicators, risk, and mitigation measures for the
   management.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR points out that ISRs filed during the first years of implementation did not record any progress under
   many results indicator. It seems that M&E design was not well suited for tracking progress during the initial
   stages of the project (ICR, p. 9). It is unclear if information on monitoring was used to inform decision-making
   and resource allocation.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   There were no safeguards policies triggered by this project, which was classified as Category "C" for
   Environmental Assessment purposes.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The ICR reports that some procurement challenges were encountered during implementation. Due to differences
   between the Bank and the Government regarding procurement procedures, the Government decided to finance
   SIGFE II’s software development with its own resources.           Procurement ratings were Satisfactory in
   Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) through ISR#6 in September 2009. In January 2010, the rating was
   downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory and it remained there throughout the rest of implementation.

   Financial management performance is also considered to have been Satisfactory. The project was characterized
   by the use of country systems and pre-financing of eligible expenditures by the government and reimbursements
   from the Bank. Overall, the project maintained adequate financial management arrangements during project
   implementation. Project budgeting, accounting, treasury, and auditing arrangements were fully integrated into
   country systems and the project fully complied with Bank requirements related to financial reporting and auditing.
   Besides the use of country systems, the project has also benefited from maintaining qualified and experienced
   staff, which contributed to a successful implementation (ICR, p. 9).
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR has very thorough coverage of the lessons, which are presented below:

    Inadequate allocation of time for developing, testing, incorporating user feedback, updating and rolling out an
    financial management information system (FMIS) can delay planning and implementation of the FMIS.
    Reflecting on existing wide-scale international studies (that were not available at the time of designing this
    project) can help in designing future projects in improving the effectiveness and efficiency of FMIS.

    While the use of the most state -of-the-art and newest technology a vailable can provide benefits , it may also
    imply additional risks for implementation . It is important to balance these risks against the benefits. Using
    such technology can confer important benefits, including increased usability, while perhaps lessening the need
    to engage in as many updates in the future. However, potential risks include more expensive and lengthier
    implementation periods. In the case of SIGFE II, these risks associated with the use of such technology
    materialized.

    There is no easy answer as to whether a big -bang approach or a gradual implementation process for FMIS is
    the better approach . Both approaches have their challenges , and what is the correct approach depends on
    the country and its systems . In the case of Chile, the decision to proceed gradually allowed it to initiate
    implementation (and deal with the issues that arose) without risking impacting the entirety of the government,
    and shift towards a more aggressive strategy only when such problems had been addressed. Nevertheless,
    this strategy had its costs – requiring that resources continue to be allocated to both the old system and the
    new one – and may diminish individual institution’s incentives to transition to the new system.

    Project design and supervision needs to manage political transitions in FMIS , as FMIS are designed to
    extend beyond one political administration . In the case of this Project, while political changes resulted in some
    slowing of implementation and the re-prioritization of non central activities, roll-out of the SIGFE II was able to
    successfully continue given the strong technical orientation of the work and an institutionalized foundation that
    transcended government administrations.
14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is satisfactory. It does well in describing the implementation issues encountered under each component,
    and why the project needed a one year extension. The ICR is candid about the somewhat unclear presentation of
    the Results Monitoring matrix in the PAD. Therefore, in assessing the project's efficacy, the ICR includes the
    PDO indicators in the PAD and indicators from the results matrix, and provides additional supporting information.
    It would have been helpful if the ICR had listed the key indicators under Section 1.2 under 'Original DPO and Key
    Indicators'.The lessons are clearly drawn from project experience, particularly with regard to implementing the
    Financial Management Information System.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
