Docmnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8993
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
SEPTEMBER 7. 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribotion and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banbk athoriZtion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
Monetary Unit  : CFA Franc (CFAF)
1 US$ 8 300 CFAF
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                 US Equivalent
1 hectare (ha)   =     2.47 acres
LIST OF ACRONYMS
CCCE              Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CNCAS             Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du SEn4gal.
CPSP              Caisse de P4riquation et de Stabilisation des Prix
FAC               Fonds d'aide de cooperation (France)
FAO               Food and Agriculture Organization
NPA               Nouvelle Politique Agricole
odMs              Organisation de Hise en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal
SAED              Societe d'Am4nagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve S6nEgal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal et de la
FalEme
SOMIVAC           Societe de Mise en Valeur de la Casamance
SOFISEDIT         Societe  Financiere  Senegalaise pour  le Developpement  de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme.
UAC               Unite d'Atelier Central (Main Mechanical Workshop
for SAED)
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
SAED: July 1 - June 30
Government: July 1 - June 30



FORt OFmCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washmgton. DC. 20433
U.S.A.
aWc nE Ogete.pq
Pwatm Rvah*abw'
September 7, 1990
KEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Republic of Senegal
Irritation Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1632-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Republic of Senegal Irrigation Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 1632-SE)" prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Sahelian Department, Africa Regional Office.  No alidit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Ths document has a =ttd distibution and may be usod by cipbnts only in the perfomace I
of ther offiial dutis Its coateuts may n othewe be discosed without Wodd Dank a_n- |n.



FOR oFCAL1 USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............                                                             i
BASIC DATA SHEET .... ..... ..... .................. & ........ Li
EVALUATION  S10UMMARY    ......... ...............................              iv
I:  BACKGROUNDs ORIGIN & OBJECTIVES ................       ..... ......... 1
Background ........        ....           ..1.......... 1
Project Objectives ........                                            . 2
II: PROJECT FORMULATION ......................                            2
Project Description ........................            ............... 2
Project Design                           ...... .                        3
IIIs  PROJECT IPLENTATION  .......................................... 4
Project Implementation .............................................. 4
Project Results        ..       ............................    ........ 4
Status of Disengagement . ........................................ 4
Project Sustainability ....................................             . 5
IV:  ISSUES RAISED AT EACH STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE ................ 5
Identification/Preparation   ..... ....* . ... .00*400* .............. 5
Appraisal .................................................... 6
Board Presentation .......................                 ..      .... . 6
Credit Effectiveness ............................................6 
V:  PERFORMANCE .        ...............       ................................. 6
Bank Performance . ............................................... 6
Borrower Performance ............................................ 8
ANIMEX: Status of Covenants
Attachment I - Comments from the Borrower
This document has a restricteo distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
PREFACE
Thia is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation
Technical Assistance Project in Senegal, for which Cr. 1632-SE in the
amount of US$4.7 million was approved on October 29, 1985. The credit was
closed on December 31, 1988, one year behind schedule. Only US$2.9 million
was disbursed and an amount of US$1.8 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the
Sahelian Department of the Africa Regional Office and is based, inter alia,
on the President's Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached
to the Report (Attachment I).



- is -
PROJECT CONWLTION REPORT
SEQGAL
TRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
BASIS DATA SHEET
A. KEY PROJECT DATA
Proiect Timetable
Date                 Date             Date
Planned              Revised         Actual
identification                  --                                 06/81
Preparation                     --                 --           1982-1985
Appraisal                    06185                 --              06/85
Negotiations                 07185                 --              08/85
Board Presentation           08185                 --           10/29/85
Credit Signature                --                 --           12107/85
Credit Effectiveness            --                 __           05/01/86
Completion                06/30/87                 --           12/31/88
Closing                   12/31/87                 __           12/31/88
B. CREDIT DIS WRsDHFRnS
CUJMLATIVE ESTIMTD  AND ACTUAL DISBURSUIEBTS (US$ Million)
Year               as      ST      s                       89
quarter             4      4        1    2    8    4        1
Appraeisl Estimate   8.2   4.60
Actesl            0.5      1.054  1.ll  1.601 2.277 2.57 2.942,021
Actual as X f Est. 16.6    21.6                           60.5



- Wii -
C. t
AppraIsal                             Ov.rrn
Esti mate              Actual       Underrun MI)
Proj3et Cost                 16.1                   13.3              91
IDA CredIt                    4.86                   2.9              60
(Cancel led)                                        (1.96)            ()
Cefinanciere
CCC/FAC                    a3.3                   10.0            a3m
UNDP                        0.4                    0.9             226
USAID                       0.1                     -               -
Oters                       0.5                     -
D. STAFF INPUTS MAN-IEEKS)
1975  17   S079  1930  1962  193  1964  19865  1U  1967  1968  1989  Tots I
Preparatlon  0.8  2.0   0.2   57.2  13.4  5.6           60.0                           129.6
Appraisal                                                4.6  7.3                       11.9
Uv490414"st                                                  E5.2                        F.2
So-rvlion                                                     7.9   1.7   4.5   6.0    19.7
3tsrv                                                         6.0   0.1   0.1            6.6
Tot"                                                                                   173.2
E. ISSIOM DATA
montb/     Mo. of   Days In  Spectial .atiosn   Prtormance Rating   Typ of
Year       Pe rono  Fl-l       Repr u ntd/   Statue  /b  Trend/e Pro  mid
Preparation    1       10/61          1         7               *,l
Preparat7on   2         1/62          6        10         *,i,e,Of#                                I, F
Preparation   3         68/2          1         1                 e
Preparation   4         3/64          1         2                 t                                F
Preparation    C       12/65          1         1                                                 F, I
Preration    0          2/86          2         4               *,                                 I, C
Preparation    7        4/86          1         7                 *                             I, F, C
Appraisal     1         0/85          1         7                 I                             I, F, C
Post-appraleal 2       10/86          2        10               *,t                                I, F
Supervision    1        3/87          1         7                 *          1          2          I, F
Supervision    2        7/88          1         6                 t          2          a           , F
Supervision/
Completion    a        3/99          1         c                            -          -           -
/a Key to epecialtises o n oag  iet, to Irrigation en,Ineer, on ecorelet, t. financial aalyst, o 
operations assistant.
/b lu.No problems, 2a Itoderat problems, Su Serious problem
/c laiprovlng, 2mttioary, Smorsening
/d Problin: Cs coftnancing, to Institutional, Fs f inanial



- iv _
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECMNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
EVALUATION SUTJiHRY
Introduction
1.   The project was the third in a series of projects designed to assist
irrigation development in the Senegal River Valley. Irrigation development in
the Senegal River Valley has been one crucial axis of Government's strategy to
raise rural income, and create productive employment in the valley, enhance
the country's food security (by increasing the production of rice, mostly),
fight desertification, and discourage migration to the cities.
Obiectives
2.   The main objective of the project was the financial and institutional
rehabilitation of Societe d'Amdnagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuve Senegal et de la Fal4m6 (SAED) (as
well as the physical rehabilitation of infrastructure managed by SAED), so
that SAED could implement its disengagement from production-related
activities, and become a viable institution, capable of designing and managing
the further development of private irrigated agriculture in the valley. The
project was, therefore, designed to support the implementation of Government's
'Nouvelle Polltique Agricole' (NPA) in the Senegal River Valley.
implementation Erxerience
3.   Aside from the implementation of the studies planned, which was
successful, project implementation was marred with several problems. Planned
maintenance work was delayed, due to the fact that during periods of time,
disbursements were suspended by the Bank because of Srregularities in payments
or accounting procedures by SAED, or unsatisfactory compliance with conditions
of disbursements on the part either of SAND or Government. Financial
rehabilitation has not been achieved in spite of large additional funding from
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE); as a result,
SAND's cash flow situation is still critical. Restructuring of SAID has not
kept pace with disengagement from production-related activities, which is
already well advanced. Personnel deflation has accordingly only remained
minimal.
4.   Project shortfall in expenditures financed by the IDn  credit stemmed
from the fact that (a) many project studies were financed by other donors
rather than from the IDA credit as foreseen at appraisal; (b) maintenance
works were not fully undertaken mainly because of the weak organization of the
SAID's organization and maintenance services; and (c) fewer subprojects than



- v -
expected were initiated by deflated public sector staff. Despite this cost
underrun, credit closing date was extended by one year at the request of the
Government to allow for on-lending for staff resettlement subprojects which
were approved just before the original closing date but not yet financed.
Sustainability
5.   It is somewhat doubtful whether after completion of the disengagement
process (whose initiation was one of the project main achievements), SAED's
improved structure and management will long withstand its persistent financial
difficulties. Sustainability of the rehabilitation process is, therefore,
questionable. Government's uncertain codmitment to continued operation of
SAED further threatens sustainability. A test of political commitment will
come in the next months with the materialization of the proposed cuts in
redundant personnel, or on the contrary, with the postponement, or reduction
in scope, of these personnel cuts. On the other hand. the new organigram of
SAED, which decentralizes much of the responsibilities into the hands of the
local wdelegationsg, makes efficient operation a real possibility, once the
financial and personnel problem will have been solved, and the disengagement
process completed (notably, by the privatization of SAED's main mechanical
workshop, the Unite d'Atelier Central (UAC)).
Findknkg and Lessons Learned
6.   The main lessons learned from this pro4ect are as follows:
(a) Correct identification of the policy framework, and agreement on this
with the government of the borrowing country, are crucial to the success
of any project.
(b) Commitment and capacity of the government to sustain the objectives of
the project should be closely monitored. Signs that this commitment is
wavering, or the capacity was misevaluated, should be sufficient to put
the project seriously in question, on the Bank's part, at any point
during the life of the project. Cancellation of a loan should possibly
be seen as a justified action, for instance if crucial conditions are
not met or met very unconvincingly.
(c) Projections of benefits should not be based on unrealistic expectations
of unflinching commitment on the part of the borrower, especially when
the borrower has expressed reluctance or doubt with respect to his
engagements (cf. financial assumptions for rehabilitation of SAED).
(d) There should be a clear assignment of responsibilities within the
borrowing party's agencies, with respect to the project. Ideally, a
project manager should be appointed.
(e) Quality and frequency of supervision missions are crucial. In
particular. only supervision missions will be able to give an assessment
regarding points (b) and (c).



PROJECT CcrPIESlON REPORT
REPUBLIC 0 SENEGAL
IURGATION TECUNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1632-SI)
I. BACKGROUND: ORIGIN AND OBJECTIVES
Background
1.   After 1974 Senegal vent through a decade of growing unreliability in
agricultural production and deteriorating terms of trade, whose adverse
effects on output, domestic incomes, fiscal and export revenues were
compounded by severe droughts in 1979-80 and 1983-84. In this context, which
determined financial crises in the beginning of the 80s, the Government of
Senegal formulated a new agricultural policy ('Nouvelle Politique Agricole
(NPA)') which aimed at combining the elimination of costly and ineffective
government intervention in production, and a new cereals policy entailing
consumer and producer price increases. In the Senegal river valley, NPA
resulted in a revision of the role of the regional irrigation development
parastatal, SAED. In a series of contract-plans ('Lettre de Mission') issued
to SAED for three-year periods starting in July 1981, SAID was asked by the
Government to implement the transition in the Senegal river basin, from
publicly (SAED-)controlled and SAED-assisted farming production to privately
managed agriculture. Under the second 'Lettre de Mission' (1984-1987), SAID
was asked by the government to start *disengaging' from productiou-related
activities, and size down its operations accordingly. However, the dismal
financial situation of SAED at that juncture was prejudicial to continued
operatiot; SAED's bankruptcy, and subsequent inability to operate, would have
severely disrupted irrigated production in the valley. The successful
rehabilitation was also made crucial, because of the additional irrigation
development potential brought about by the construction of the dams of Diama
and Manantali on the Senegal river; failure to perform such development would
have rendered the benefits from the dams well inferior to their costs.
2.   As part of its NPA, Government, with the support of the Bank, therefore
decided to address the issue of SAND's financial, institutional, and physical
rehabilitation. At the same time, studies would be performed that could
prepare SAED's disengagement from production-related activities, in the
framework of the NPA. This is why the original design of the operation (an
irrigation development project) was altered and the scope of the operation was
reduced to a technical assistance project.
3.   The Irrigation Technical Assistance Project (ITA Project) was the third
irrigation project financed by the Bank Group in Senegal. The first investment
came in 1973 with the Senegal River Polders Project (Credit 350-SE). This
credit of US$ 4.5 million financed the development of over 3200 ha at Dagana
in the upstream portion of the river's delta, and improvement of irrigation
over 1780 ha at Debi and Lampear. The project exceeded planned costs, and the
partial water control scheme at Debi and Lampsar proved too risky in case of
severe droughts. A subsequen: project that would allow for complete water
control and double cropping (after the opening of the Diem dam), was



-2-
therefore financed by IDA, the Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project (Credit 775-
SE). This project had a strong impact on rice production, and had a positive
impact on participating farmers' financial situation. The IRR was, however,
very poor (-4X), and below the appraisal estimate, because of costs overruns,
a fall in the price of paddy, and the fact that exclusively rice was grown,
and not in combination with tomatoes, as according to project design.
Project Obiectives
4.   The specific objective of the project was to make SAED an institution
capable, by mid-1987, of taking effective responsibility for the development
of irrigated agriculture in the Senegal River Valley. This objective implied
a successful financial rehabilitation of SAID, a contract between the
Government and SAND to ensure the financing of SAED's public service
activities, disenf;agement of SAED from unsound production-related service
supply to farmers, and institutional overhaul of SAED -- including shedding
excess personnel and equipment. The objective was not met within the
timeframe proposed in the Regional Vice-President's cover memo to the July
1985 President's Report. The project, however, contributed to laying the
ground for the restructuring of SAED, and to preparing SAED's disengagement.
Detailed actions regarding SAED's restructuring and disengagement are part of
the follow-through project, Irrigation IV (Credit No. 1855-SE). One important
objective that was however met was preventing the full collapse of SAED.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
Project Descritio
5.   The Project, as agreed at negotiations, comprised the following
components:
Part As Carrying out of studies:
(i) to determine measures necessary to reduce the scope of SAED's
corporate purpose to planning and supervising agricultural
development in the Senegal River Valley and maintaining
collective irrigation network infrastructure;
(ii) to assess and determine ways, means and incentives to induce
private entrepreneurs to take over the activities to be
relinquished by SAED;
(iii)to assess the agricultural credit needs in the Senegal River
Valley and to design a schedule, in cooperation with Caisse
Nationale de Credit Agricole du Senegal (CNCAS), dealing with
the types of credit required, the terms and conditions of such
credit and the timing for opening CNCAS branches in the Senegal
River Valley;
(iv) to evaluate the type of agricultural equipment most adjustable
to the changing agricultural conditions In the Senegal River
Valley; and



- 3 -
(v) to prepare a master plan for the long-term development oi
irrigated agriculture in the Senegal River Valley.
Part B: Physical rehabilitation of irrigation network and equipments
(i) Replacement of defective pumping stations;
(ii) acquisition of spare parts for the Delta pumping stations;
(iii)overhaul and repair of agricultural equipment such as tractors,
earthmoving and land preparation;
(iv) maintenance of the Ross-Bethio and Richard-Toll rice mills; and
(v) maintenance of the irrigation network.
Part C: Rehabilitation of SAED's financial conditions.
Part D: Provision of credit to staff laid off by selected rural development
r- ncies. to assist them in setting up their own businesses.
Project Design
6.   The project's features were simple and design was limited to
organizational and financial aspects. The financial design of the
resettlement fund on-lending scheme proved valid, and 602 of that fund was
disbursed. However, the fact that, within SAED, no one was specifically
responsible for the implementation of the project, may explain why in spite of
the need for maintenance work, only 30Z of the funds allocated to the category
covering operational costs of maintenance were utilized.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Implementation
7.   Some aspects of project implementation were satisfactory, such as the
completion of studies, which were financed by other cofinanciers or passed on
to Irrigation IV. The design of the program for disengagement of SAED (part of
the 3rd Lettre de Mission) was completed later than planned (April 1986
instead of January 1986). The UNDP-financed Master Plan for the Left Bank
will be finished early 1990, instead of mid-1989. A main shortcoming in the
implementation of the project is the failure to perform planned maintenance
work. This cen be attributed to a series of factors. One is the generally
low-level of information, within SAED, about how each department could access
project funds. A second factor are the disturbances of SAED's work during the
life of the project, because of SAED's reorganization, and because of repeated
changes (two in two years) in SAED's top management. A final factor was the
fact that disbursements were suspended for most of the second year of project
implementation (from 04129/88 to 11/16188) because of non-compliance of SAED
with the requirement of a yearly audit, and subsequently, when the audit was
supplied, because of the irregularities the audit evide4ced.



-4-
Prolect Results
8.   The final project objective was to make SAED effectively able to take
responsibility for the design and management of further irrigation development
in the Senegal River Valley. This objective was only partially achieved and
had to be taken over by the follow-up credit, Irrigation IV. A preliminary
objective of preventing SAIDs bankruptcy and subsequent prejudice to local
agriculture, was achieved. The study prepared under the project for the
disengagement ot SAED paved the way for a successful initiation of that
process. The agricultural credit study made recommendations for agricultural
credit component under the follow-up credit (Irrigation IV), which seems to be
so far fairly successful.
9.   A major shortcoming of the project was the failure to rehabilitate
SAED's finances. SAED is still currently in a very precarious financial
situation. It is owed over CFAF 1 billion by the State, CFAF 1.6 billion by
the Caissse de Perequation et de Stabilizsation des Prix (CPSP) and around CFAF
1 billion by the farmers for water charges and other services. The
consequences of this are an extremely low cash flow, implying very high
financial costs. In addition, the current mode of recording accounts payable
well after they are received (up to 2 months) from suppliers implies an under-
reporting of actual liabilities, and probably contributed to a misevaluation
of SAED's financial difficulties, at the time of appraisal.
10. Status of Disengagement. SAED is already well on the way to being
Odisengaged from production-related activities, and focussing only on public-
service type of interventions. In particular, 852 of soil preparation is now
done privately. The Central Mechanical Workshop (UAC) is still operated and
owned by SAED; but a study will soon explore ways to privatize it. SAED is
totally 'disengaged' from the supply of inputs. Personnel reductions,
however, have remained as yet small. Larger cuts, i.e., 300 staff members, are
underway. The reinsertion fund provided to SOFISEDIT for on-lending under the
Irrigation Technical Assistance Project was mostly useful for employees of
other public rural development companies also affected by the new agricultural
policies.
Project Sustainability
11.    It is doubtful whether the few positive results of the project are
sustainable. Tne follow-up project (Irrigation IV), to some extent, howev3r,
will contribute to improve sustainability. In particular, as it was noted
above in para 6, SAED'S unresolved cash flow constraint is a direct threat to
a sustainable financial equilibrium of SAED. It had been hoped that the
project would first and foremost help to relieve this constraint. Other
obstacles to SAED'S financial balance remain, that threaten sustainability.
One of these is the lack of a credible commitment ou the part of Government to
ensure SAED's continuing financial equilibrium. This lack of commitment is
evident from repeated delays and postponements of payments due SAED out of
Government's budget. Another obstacle is caused by CPSP's own financial
difficulties, which prevent CPSP from paying SAED in time for the rice
purchased from SAED's mills. Finally, farmers are a third very unreliable
source of revenue for SAED. Two factors play a role in this. First, farmers
are only beginning to consider SAID as other than a "soft creditor, with whom
they can postpone payment at will, and second, the agricultural credit is only
at its initial development, and many farmers lack access to funds to finance



5-
their agricultural campaign. In terms of institutional reorganization, work
begun under the project seems to have put SAED on much firmer ground. A final
test of sustainability will be the capacity of management to overcome
potential political opposition to its implementing planned personnel
deflation.
Iv. ISSUES RAISED AT EACH STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
12.     Identification/Preparation.  The Project was first designed as an
irrigation development project (initially called 'Irrigation IV") but SAED's
financial deficit immediately appeared as a major obstacle to the viability of
such a project. The preparation involved CCCE, PAC. USAID and other donors.
With SAED's recond 'Lettre de Mission' paving the way, in early 1985, for
SAED's disengagement from production-related activities, donors agreed to
proceed with a credit that would reflect this new direction for public support
to irrigated agriculture in the valley. The project was, therefore, refocused
on institutional rehabilitation of SAED and support for its disengagement
process. The project accordingly became an *Irrigation Technical Assistance
Project' and consisted in (i) financial and physical rehabilitation of SAED
and its irrigation network and (ii) support studies for the disengagement and
the definition of SAED' s new role after the disengagement. The government was
at first very reluctant to see the initial project reduced to a rehabilitation
operation, and it was only in June 85 (4 years after the start of preparation)
that it agreed that the investment program should be implemented under a
second, subsequent project.
13.     Appraisal.  The government, after appraisal, expressed its
disagreement with the Bank's considering a successful implementation of the
ITA Project a precondition for further Bank investments in the irrigated
sector. The Bank never quite concurred, and in fact effectiveness of the ITA
Credit became a condition for the appraisal of the subsequent Irrigation IV
Project.
14.     Boarl Presentation.  A condition for Board presentation was for SAED
to prepare for the settling of all its outstanding arrears with its creditors.
For this, SAED was required to supply a list of all these creditors and the
amounts owed each of them. An additional fund of US$ 2 million to finance the
reinsertion of personnel laid-off by SAED and other public rural development
corporation being restructured because of the NPA, was adrved to the Project
after appraisal. US$ 500,000 were to be contributed to this fund by IDA.
Another US$ 1 million was also added to the project for expanded maintenance
activities of the irrigation network.
15.     Credit Effectiveness.  Because of delays by the Government and SAED
in meeting conditions for Credit effectiveness, the project did not become
effective until May 1986, seven months after approved. The conditions were
that (i) SAED should not have any arrears older than 6 months with its
creditors; (ii) government would settle its own arrears with SAED; and (iii)
SAED's accounts should be satisfactory to external auditors. Arrears of
government with SAED, in particular, remained an issue until April 1986, when
government promised to pay SAED the remaining CFAP 535 million by mid-Hay. The
conditions of effectiveness were thus "considered as complied with'.



- 6 -
V. PERFORMANCE
Bank Performance
16.     While the Bank can be credited with supporting the Government,
through this project, in reestablishing both SAEID's operations and irrigated
production in general in the Senegal River Valley, the project's shortcomings
and failures justify the criticisms of Bank performance that follow.
(a)Project preparation was far too long. At the beginning of preparation,
the Bank's view (cf. initial Project Brief, dated 11/17181) was that the
bottlenecks to the development of irrigated agriculture in the valley
were the technical inadequacy of large-scale perimeters (which had
predominated in the Delta) and SAED's precarious financial situation. in
spite of the fact that the policy context of Senegalese agriculture was
at that time correctly addressed by the Bank through the first SAL (in
particular, the key issue of overtaxation of agriculture for the benefit
of urban consumers), the project brief cited above made no mention of
this crucial policy issue. This is one factor that explains the length
of preparation: the policy issues to be addressed were only slowly
identified and put within a correct policy framework. It must be said,
however, that agreement with the Government on this policy package (the
"Nouvelle Politique Agricole', NPA) was also slow in being achieved. An
additional element was that the poor level of institutional capacity
within SAED was at first only partially recognized by the Bank.
Consequently, the initial design of the project (whose purpose was to
support SAED's second Lettre de Mission' for 1984-1987) included
support for the irrigation development component of that *Lettre de
Mission', without clearly recognizing that, at that point, SAED did not
have the institutional and financial capacity to take responsibility for
such development. Once this problem was finally recognized, it was
Government's reluctance to focus on SAED's rehabilitation prior to any
further development of irrigated perimeters that forced the Bank to
postpone the operation until agreement was reached. But the Bank's own
position would certainly have been much more persuasive if that
recognition had come at an earlier stage of the project's design.
(b)The various assumptions upon which the projections for SAED's financial
rehabilitation were based were very optimistic. This has put one of the
project's main objectives (financial rehabilitation of SAED) in
jeopardy. In particular, it was assumed that the price of paddy that had
been set by Government was sufficient to enable farmers to pay SAED for
lOO1 of the costs of land preparation (when still performed by SAED) and
602 of the O&M costs for water distribution, as well as 1002 of the
costs of inputs (until full disengagement). This assumption was put in
question in the Project Completion Report (No. 7149) for the Debi-
Lampsar Irrigation Project (Credit 775-SE). This report argued that,
without the introduction of higher-value crops (such as tomatoes), it
would be very difficult to find acceptable economic rates of return for
irrigated agriculture on the type of large perimeters managed by SAED in
the Delta (even with double-cropping). Furthermore, the project assumed
rapid adoption of double-cropping, which has not happened. Another basic
assumption which affected the financial balance of SAED was the rhythm
of disengagement and personnel deflation. It was assumed for instance
that the number of employees at SAED would go from around 965 down to an
average of 600 in 1986187, when in fact on 12131/1988 SAED still had 944



-7-
employees, only 22 less than in 1984185. Finally, the Bank misevaluated
Government's commitment (or capacity) to provide SAED with sufficient
resources to perform its public service function. A certain lack of such
political commitment should have been clear all along the various steps
of project preparation, appraisal, and effectiveness, when each time the
conditions linked to Government settling its arrears with were only
fulfilled well after the deadline, and each time through additional
funding from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
rather than out of Government's own budget. For instance, a condition
for Credit effectiveness was that Government should have paid all the
arrears it owed SAED before December 31, 1985. In fact, after several
postponements, the Bank considered the condition fulfilled on May 1,
1986, upon the promise from Government that the arrears would be paid by
mid-Hay. Government was again in arrears with SAID as late as February
1987. In SAED's own evaluation of its financial situation in the
"Document de SynthOse de la 3&me Lettre de Mission', it is argued,
moreover, that SAED should have received from Government an additional
CFAF 476 million for 1986/87 and an additional 330 million for
198711988.
(c)The Bank did not express forcibly enough the importance of a successful
institutional rehabilitation of SAID as a pre-condition for further
development of irrigation under SAED's responsibility. It had been first
proposed that a successful implementation of the Irrigation Technical
Assistance Project would be a pre-condition for the Bank to finance a
subsequent irrigation development operation (Irrigation IV). Eventually,
faced with great reluctance on the part of Government, the Bank backed
down and merely made effectiveness of Irrigation Technical Assistance a
pre-condition for the appraisal of Irrigation IV (and the stringency of
this condition was further diluted by accepting a fairly loose
fulfillment of the conditions of Credit effectiveness, as discussed
above). Furthermore, during project implementation, while disbursements
were suspended several times for irregular procurement practices or
failure to submit timely audits, the fact that SAID was proceeding less
than diligently on matters of disengagement and personnel reduction, as
well as for introducing sound accounting practices, never caused the
Bank to take similar action. What is more surprising is that the
subsequent project, Irrigation IV, went on taking over the same
objectives as Irrigation Technical Assistance, without much questioning
as to why these objectives had not been achieved by the first project
that had addressed them. This can of course be understood because
appraisal of the second operation intervened immediately after
effectiveness of the previous one, thus leaving no time for any
evaluation of the results brought about by the implementation of the
first operation.
(d)There were only two supervision missions of this specific operation
(3187 and 7188). This must have appeared to be justified by the
similarity between the Irrigation Technical Assistance Project and parts
of the Irrigation IV project; but it probably contributed to the fact
that, in fact, resources committed under Irrigation Technical Assistance
to the rehabilitation of SAID have remained largely unused, and
resources from Irrigation IV were used instead.



Borrower Performance
17.    As was indicated by the long delays before appraisal and credit
effectivenses, the Bank did not find that the Senegalese Government or SAED
were sufficiently committed to achieving the objectives of the project. On
the part of Government, unwavering support would have been needed to
definitely secure the financial basis of SAED as a public service
organization. This support would have needed to be not only financial (i.e.,
setting arrears swiftly, which never happened, and henceforth regularly
budgeting the costs of SAED's public service operation), but also political,
giving management at SAED the political strength to proceed decisively with
personnel deflation. In fact, until March 1989, personnel deflation had
affected a very low 2Z of staff.
18.  On the part of SAED, there was a distinct reluctance to implement
regular audits of its own accounts; to implement improved cost accounting
procedures; and in general, to clarify and attempt to resolve the obvious
mismatch between its current assets and its current liabilities.
Organizational problems, and the failure to share information widely enough
about access to the Project's funds, hindered use of these funds, while the
needs for them were high. The lack of individual responsibility at SAED's
level, as far as this project is concerned, and the frequent changes in
management over the life of the project are additional explanations of this
poor implementation.
19.  SAED's new management must, however, be commendeds  in spite of the
financial and organizational difficulties that still plague SAED, it has taken
the disengagement process seriously, and has been able to impress upon farmers
the fact that the new mode of participation of SAED in the valley's
agricultural development, and the new economic incentive framework, were
durable and to be reckoned with.



-9-
ANNE
Status of Covenants
Covenant                        Suet                                   Deadline     Statue
Loan A6reeM2gt
Section 8.01 (b)                Payment by Goveorm    at a                          Goverment still
total ot CFAF 2,420 mIIIon to                     currently In arroars
cover the public  ervice costs                     with SAIED.
through 1 9-U through 1980
Section 8.01 (c)                ReinSertio4 fun                                     Fulfilled
Soction 8.04                    Prorm of' dl i _n.ayemt of SAED        01/31/36     Fultilled 0/J1
(1) & (il)                      from production-reoated l atvities
full cost-recovry by SAED on agred
inpu  and agricultural services.
Section 8.04                    Full  cost-r eov ry on 0 A N ot        07181/67     Fulfilled
(tii)                           Irrigation network from ftrmere
Section 8.04                    Sebtl- entf all arrears older          038/1/8      Not fultilled
(Iv)                            than 6 months to creditors.                         (but wm  considered
fultilled at credit
etfectivenoes.)
Section 8.06                    Potpo     nt ot any maintnenace                     Fulfillod.
works on SAED'  rice sIll  only In
conforilty with rsults ot twdy
Section 8.06                    Are e  nt at SAID'o two-yer                         Fulfilled with delays.
(1)                             Investment progrm every April 80.
Section 8.06                    Third lottre do miesion to be          06/80/87     Fulfilled with delays.
(ii1 1)                         prepared



- 10 -                     Attachment I
WORLD BANK TMSS
OEDD1
248423 WORLD RANK
CAISC B 212632F
PARIS, 25JUL90 14:39
WORLD BANK WASHINGTON
ATTN: MR. DONALDSON, OED
SUBJECTs PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(CREDIT 1632-SE)
AFTER REVIEW OF REPORT, WE HAVE NO COMMENTS, EXCEPT FOR THE FOLLOWING
ITEM: PERTAINING TO THE LACK OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR SAED PERSONNEL
BECAUSE OF FUTURE CONSTRAINTS, IT WOULD BE USEFUL TO REFER TO
PERTAINING PARAGRAPHS (PAGE IV, LAST SENTENCE, AND PAGE 6 LINE 10) FOR
THE PROJECT COMPLETION DATE: 31DEC88.
WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE DELAY OF OUR REPLY.
SINCERELY,
J. JAUJAY



- 11 -
Office of the President of the Republic
General Secretariat
Delegation for Economic Planning and Policy
Dakar
Republic of Senegal.
August 4, 1990
No. 473/PR/SG/DPPE/DP/DPG
PD/afn
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture, Infrastructure
and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Sir:
With reference to your letter of June 11, 1990 concerning the
completion report on the Irrigation Technical Assistance Project, I now
enclose the comments which I have just received from SAED, the executing
agency of the project in question.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Abdoul Aziz DIOP
The Minister
Delegation for Economic Planning and Policy



- 12 -
Ministry of Rural Development
Republic of Senegal
Soci6t4 d'Am5nagement et d'Exploitation des Terres
du Delta du Fleuve Sen6gal et de la Fal6m6 (SAED)
Directorate General.
COMMEnS ON THE IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1632-SE
July 26, 1990



- 13 -
After reading the report we would make the following comments:
I - GENERAL COMMENTS
Problems with the mobilization of funds were encountered
throughout project implementation despite the project's clearly-defined
objectives to rehabilitate SAED, improve its management capacity and provide
it with the financial and human resources needed to enable it to implement its
disengagement from production-related activities. The PCR is nonetheless
correct in saying that despite these difficulties SAED's new management team
must be given credit for successfully getting the disengagement process under
way in earnest by involving small farmer organizations and persuading them to
take their affairs into their own hands as a means of achieving the effective
agricultural development of the valley.
II - SPECIFIC OBSERVATIONS. POINT BY POINT
_I.1 We have no particular comments to make on paragraphs 1 and 2.
11.2 With reference to paragraph 3 and the suspension of disbursements
following irregularities in payments attributable to the fact that procedures
were formulated in such a way as to be open to several possible
interpretations: This was what prompted us to decide, at the time of the last
supervision mission of the Irrigation IV Project, to prepare precise and
detailed PETFs which will be examined and mutually agreed upon by the Bank and
SAED. This will doubtless help avoid the confusion and the irregularities in
question.
It is true that financial rehabilitation was not fully achieved
despite large amounts of additional funding from CCCE in accordance with the
third contract-plan (Lettre de Mission). The reasons for this were as
follows:
-     an underestimate of arrears to suppliers:  CFAF 900 million
instead of CFAF 1,400 million, i.e., a gap of CFAF 500 million.



- 14 -
-     debt recovery from the farmers, estimated at CFAF 980 million,
fell short of expectations: SAED finally recovered only CFAF 300 million and
had to grant the farmers a four-year moratorium on the items acknowledged by
the latter.
-     an overestimate of projected revenue from the sale of spare parts:
CFAF 50 million compared to the CFAF 245 million expected.
-     the long delay in the availability of CCCE funding (14 months
later than scheduled), which caused a significant deterioration in SAED's
financial situation.
A new rehabilitation plan is proposed in the fourth contract-plan,
however. This is based on an exhaustive and detailed evaluation of SAED's
needs, using very carefully compiled financial statements.
This should ensure SAED's financial rehabilitation once and for
9        all.
However, if this achievement is to be permanent, SAED will have to
be assured of a sufficient and regular supply of funds to enable it to perform
its public service mission properly.
Finally, by the time the PCR was published, SAED had already
embarked -- nine months before, in fact -- on the first phase of its staff
reduction operation, which took place on June 30; 1989, involving 201
permanent staff and 84 "permanent" temporaries.
On July 31, 1990 the second round of cuts will take place,
involving 202 permanent staff and 6 civil servants who will return to their
original government agency.
With reference to the onlending of funds for staff resettlement
projects, SAED has never been involved in the implementation of this project
component.



- 15 -
IT.3 Project imUlementation
In light of the personmel cuts SAED has made, i.e., increasing
from 284, as of June 30, 1989, to 492 as of July 31, 1990 and to 722 as of
June 30, 1991, SAED earnestly requests funds from the World Bank for this
redeployment of staff.
II.4 Sustainability of nroiect imnact
In order to ensure the sustainability of the project, it is
essential that SAED continue to receive support for its rehabilitation and
disengagement efforts in the form of sufficient funds to perform its overall
management functions and guide integrated rural development activities more
effectively. This is what the Government plans to do within the framework of
the ASAL currently under negotiation. This is expected to create an
environment that will be extremely supportive to the new decentralized SAED,
with departmental "delegations" entrusted with real authority that will enable
them to take on responsibility for development projects and programs in the
field.



