Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 4127-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 4.7 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
IRRIGATrON TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
OCTOBER 4, 1985
This dnoumt ha s a rst;icted distribution and mnsy be used by recipients only in the perormmne of
their offcial duei  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank sutbonization.



CURREICY EQUIVALEN'TS
Currency Unit   =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0   = CFAF 490
CFAF 1 millicn  =  US$2,040
SYSTEMS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                         US Equivalents
I hectare (ha)        =        2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French Aid Agency)
CNCAS       Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole du Senegal (National
Agricultural Credit Bank of Senegal)
CPSP        Caisse de Per,quation et de Stabilisation des Prix (Price
Stabilization Fund)
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid and Cooperation
Fund)
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
NPA         Nouvelle Politique Agricole (Newi Agricultural Policy)
OMVS        Organisation de Mise en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (Senegal
River Valley Development Organization)
SAED        Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du
Fleuve Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuves Senegal et de la
Faleme (Organization for the Equipping and Development of the
Senegal Delta and Senegal and Faleme Rivers)
SOMIVAC     Societe de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance (Casamance
Agricultural Development Company)
SODEFITEX   Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (Textile
Development Agency)
SOFISEDIT   Societe Financiare Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme (Financial Development Agency)
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       Urnited States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEARS
SAED: July I - June 30
Government: JulY I - June 30



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Senegal.
Beneficiaries:    - Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du
Delta du Fleuve Senigal et des Vallees du Fleuve
Senegal et de la Faleme (SAED).
- Societe Financiare Senegalaise pour le Developpement
de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT).
Amount:              IDA Credit of SDR 4.7 million (US$4.9 million
equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Relending            US$4.4 million equivalent would be passed on to SAED
Terms:               and US$0.5 million equivalent would be passed on to
SOFISEDIT, as grants.
Project              In line with the Government's policy of reducing the
Description:         responsibilities of public companies in the agricul-
tural sector, the objectives of the proposed project
would be to help the Government and SAED to disengage
SAED from its production-related activities, and to
turn these over to farmers and private enter,prises.
This would be done within the period of the contract
plan signed by SAED and the Government, which will end
on June 30, 1987. In support of these objectives. the
project would include the following components:   (i)
five  studies  to  prepare   and   facilitate  SAED's
disengagement process; (ii) urgent maintenance works
which have been postponed for lack of funds in spite of
safety risks; (iii) financing SAED's public service
activities; (iv) financing those of SAED's operational
expenses that deal with production-related activities
during a transitional period while the disengagement
process is taking place.  In addition, funds would be
allocated to finance credit to former staff of rural
development companies to help them set up their own
businesses.
e
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits:  Given the present tight financial situation of Senegal
and SAED, the first benefit of the project would be to
avoid  disruption of  agricultural  production  in the
Senegal river valley and the hardship for farmers which
would result from SAED's bankruptcy. A second benefit
would be to strengthen SAED to enable it to carry out a
more comprehensive rehabilitation project, as well as
subsequent irrigation expansion projects, in a sound
financial,  economic  and  social  environment,  with
farmers in a position to manage their business
themselves. A third benefit would be the reestablish-
ment of market mechanisms in the Senegal valley wherebv
goods and services would be exchanged on an economic
basis: farmers would pay for inputs at their actual
cost and would be able to sell their products at
remunerative  farmgate  prices.   The Government would
also be led to devise a proper balance of rice prices
in relation to production, import and consumption by
keeping the production price at a level sufficient to
stimulate or maintain production, and by raising the
retail price in proportion to the production price to
avoid draining its finances.   It is not possible to
quantify these benefits.
Project Risks       Project risks would be in the form of benefits not
realized. Their realization depends on the way (speed,
priorities, thoroughness) in which recommendations of
the disengagement studies would be implemented.  For
example, private business might be reluctant or slow to
take over SAED's activities, or Government's commitment
to agricultural reforms could change.  Any of these
occurrences would affect or possibly jeopardize the
project's implementation; IDA would endeavor to contain
their adverse effects through close monitoring of
project implementation, discussions and follow-up on
the recommendations of the studies, and audit controls.
The prospect of IDA participation in subsequent
irrigation projects, conditional on the satisfactory
implementation of the proposed project, would be an
added inducement to Government and SAED to implement
the project properly. However, if SAED's disengagement
is slower than forecasc and SAED's continuing role in
production-related activities is considered detrimental
to the implementation of the follow-on project, such
implementation would be delayed.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs (exempt from taxes)
Local     Foreign      Total
-US$ million-
Disengagement studies                              0.13        0.52        0.65
Maintenance works                                  1.70        1.22        2.92
Operating requirements                             7.82          -         7.82
Working capital                                    0.82          -         0.82
Resettlement grants                                1.80        0.20        2.00
Contingencies                                      0.60        0.30        0.90
Project cost                     12.87        2.24       15.11
Financing Plan:
Government of Senegal                              5.93           -        5.93
IDA                                                4.51        0.35        4.86
CCCE/FAC                                           2.03        1.28        3.31
UJNDP                                                -         0.41        0.41
USAID                                                -         0.10        0.10
Others                                             0.40        0.10        0.50
Total Financing                  12.87        2.24       15.11
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86       FY87
-US$ million--
Annual                                        3.20        1.66
Cumulative                                    3.20        4.86
Rate of Return: not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: not applicable
Map: IBRD 19099



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
AN IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of SDR 4.7 million (US$4.9 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Senegal to help
finance a proposed Irrigation Technical Assistance Project.  Additional
external financing for the project would be provided by France, through a
grant of Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and through a loan from
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in the total amount of
US$3.3 million equivalent, and by a grant from the USA through the US
Agency for International Development (USAID) in the total amount of US$0.1
million equivalent.   The CCCE loan would be for a term of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 9.2Z per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.          A  report  entitled  "Senegal:  Country  Economic  Memorandum"
(5243-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 5, 1984.
Country data appear in Annex 1.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the
traditional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for
domestic consumption,  and groundnut cultivation for export.  The modern
sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of over
one million inhabitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent
port facilities, an important industrial sector, and a small but
fast-growing  tourism  industry.   With  a population  of  6.2 million  in
mid-1983, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1983 was estimated at US$440.
4.        At Independence in 1960, Senegal lost its privileged position as
the center of francophone West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to
reduced  economic,  administrative  and political  circumstances.   In  the
latter part of the 1960s, income from groundnuts (the principal export)
fell due to unfavorable weather and lower export prices resulting from the
loss of EEC special preferences. Throughout the decade, the Senegalese



-2-
economy marked time as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.5%
per annum, hardly more than the estimated rate of population growth.
5.        Economic management has become even more difficult since the
1970s as a result of the growing unreliability of agricultural production
and its linked effects on domestic incomes and on fiscal and export
revenues.  During the 1970s, Senegal's groundnut production was hit by
sharp climatic fluctuations, and despite higher rates of private and public
investment, average GDP growth did not rise above that of the previous
decade. The same pattern of sharp year-to-year fluctuations around a 2.5%
growth trend has continued since 1980. However, the government no longer
has the leeway to cushion these fluctuations by increasing its borrowing
and expenditures.
6.        Fluctuations  in physical output are aggravated by the price
volatility of Senegal's major exports and imports.  For example, during
1974, the overall terms of trade improved by over 21%, due to exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however,
this improvement was almost entirely wiped out the following year by
declines iu export prices for both groundnuts and phosphates. Increases in
imported oil and rice  prices  in  the  late  1970s   brought  a  further
deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in national
income of roughly 6% between 1974 and 1982.
7.        This deterioration in terms of trade, along with two successive
years of drought in 1979 and 1980, plunged the economy into an acute
financial crisis, from which it is now only slowly recovering. The onset
of this crisis led the Government to launch a five-year economic and
financial recovery program, whose main objectives were to stabilize the
economy during the first two years and to achieve an economic growth rate
of 4% per annum in the following three years.  This program was supported
by an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) of US$243 million equivalent, approved
by the IMF in August 1980, and a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL) of
US$60 million equivalent approved by the Bank in December 1980.
8.        The recovery program consisted of an economic stabilization plan
(agreed with and monitored by the I[F), introduction of new producer
incentives, reorientation of the public investment program, a change in the
national policy on parastatal enterprises, and a package of structural
reforme in the agricultural sector. The objectives of this program were
sound but the implementation schedule proved too ambitious. Despite delays
caused by a record low 1980/81 groundnut crop and by the change of pres-
ident in early 1981, the Government did achieve significant progress in
financial arrears reduction, parapublic sector management and introducing
new industrial incentive policies. However, in other areas, and especially
in the reform of agricultural policies and institutions and in reduction o'
the current account and fiscal deficits, the results were disappointing.
The SAL second tranche of US$16.2 million was cancelled on June 30, 1983.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        The array of acute structural and financial problems from which



-3-
Senegal had suffered for seven years was compounded in 1983/84 by the
return of severe drought conditions.   These reduced by almost 40% the
volumes of agricultural crop production available both for export
(groundnuts) and for domestic consumption (mainly cereals). The drought,
probably the second most severe since 1972-73. had a negative impact on the
level of economic activity in 1984, on Senegal's balance of payments and,
indirectly,  on  its public  finances.   Despite  these  difficulties,  the
current account deficit was reduced in 1984, according to preliminary
estimates.
10.       While there are some encouraging signs of growth in sectors not
directly affected by the drought (e.g. fishing and tourism), prospects for
a sustained recovery in output and employment are still uncertain, not only
because of climatic aberrations, but also as a direct result of the
persistent  financial  crisis.   Although  the  economy  appeared  to  have
recovered strongly in 1982 and 1983 from the effects of the two preceding
drought-affected years, restoring real per capita income to its 1979 level,
GDP fell by about 4.0% in 1984. It would have been even lower without the
growth in fisheries, petroleum refining and other export-based industries,
notably fertilizers, for which a 200,000 tpy phosphoric acid plant came on
stream at mid-year.
11.       Over the last  two years, Senegal has pursued its adjustment
program in close consultation with the IMF, with which credit outstanding
at end-June 1985 was equivalent to 260% of Senegal's quota.  In August
1983, following the announcement of measures to eliminate subsidies on
petroleum, rice and other products, an IMF standby was agreed for 1983/84,
with commitments to observe strict public employment limits and domestic
credit ceilings. This program, which aimed at reducing the current account
deficit by more than three percentage points of GDP and reducing the
overall fiscal deficit from 9 to 4.8% of GDP, was successfully completed.
A new standby covering an 18-month period to June 1986 was approved by the
IMF Board in January 1985, and performance is judged satisfactory to date
by the WMF. It is clear, however, that in future years Senegal's potential
drawings on further IMF resources will largely be offset by repurchase and
interest obligations due on outstanding IMF credit, requiring an increase
in budgetary assistance from other sources.
12.       A major constraint on the Government's finances and the balance
of payments is the serious and growing burden represented by service of the
external foreign debt. Over the past four years, debt has been rescheduled
four times with the Paris Club, and as well as with the banks, and debt
service is projected to average around US$250 million per year over the
next four years, making it necessary to continue debt relief for a few more
years until the adjustment program has had time to take effect on the
economy.
Producer and Export Incentives
13.       The structural adjustment program addresses the need to improve
Senegal's trade balance by adjusting relative prices in order to encourage



-4-
export production and discourage growth in imports of food, energy and
consumer goods. Since 1981, measures have been introduced to adjust the
tariff structure, to correct for bias in the protection system against
exports of specific products, and  to fully reflect shifts in internal
costs and international markets and currencies through internal price
adjustments.  (Senegal's currency has depreciated 20% in real terms, on an
import trade-weighted basis, since end-1980.) The basic rate of import
duties has been increased to 15% of c.i.f. value and fiscal duties on many
products raised to punitive levels. An export premium system introduced in
1981 has had a positive impact on export and employment levels in some of
the five industries to which it was first applied, especially fish
processing.   An extension to 20 other product lines, as well as a change
in the payment system toward a value-added basis, was introduced in 1983.
Between February 1982 and January 1985, the Government has doubled the
retail price of rice, the main food staple in urban areas, in order to
reflect higher import costs and to provide a measure of protection for
domestic rice production.   Cereals are marketed mostly through private
channels; the offxcial floor prices for producer have been raised by about
10% for the 1984/85 season and again by around 20% for 1985186. There has
also been a substantial increase announced in the producer price for
groundnuts for the coming season, in order to maintain comparability with
prices offered on the parallel market.
Investment Program
14.       The   outlook  for  investment  has  deteriorated  since  the
establishment of the structural adjustment program in 1980.  While the
latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to reestablish
macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced program has
become difficult. In the present climate, a careful screening of new
investment projects is particularly needed, together with increased atten-
tion to rehabilitation and maintenance needs. The necessary institutional
reforms for improving the Government's programming, budgeting and
monitoring of investment projects are expected to be put into place over
the next year. In view of the difficult public finance situation, the
Government's ability to generate public savings for financing its
investment program will remain very constrained during the next four-year
development plan covering fiscal years 1986-89, and the investment level
itself will be largely determined by the availability of concessional
foreign resources. Some public enterprises, however, should be able to
generate funds for investment during this period and the share of private
investment is expected to increase as the financial situation begins to
improve.
Parastatal Sector
15.       Reform of the large parastaral sector in Senegal continues to be
a high priority.   Over  the  last year  the Government has  taken some
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable or
inefficient public enterprises. In the agricultural sector, a number of
agencies are being "wound down" and about 1,500 staff have already been
laid off.  For others, a redefinition of tasks and a reduction in staff



-5-
numbers has been decided. For some of the most important public
enterprises, the Government has moved to improve performance by negotiating
multi-year con.rats-plans which set out production and financial objectives
for company operations and spell out the reciprocal obligations of the
Government and enterprise managers. To date, the Government has signed
seven contrats-plans, including two for SAED, and several others are well
advanced. A comprehensive policy guidelines for parastatal reform is under
preparation.
Long-term Prospects
16.        Senegal's long-term economic prospects very much depend on the
success of its recently begun medium-term adjustment program for the period
1985-92. This program seeks to create an improved base for development
both by correcting the unsustainable imbalances on the government budget
and external accounts, and by structurally improving the institutional and
incentive environment for economic activity, hence implying a general
reduction in government involvement in the economy. The Government's
development   strategy   continues   to   emphasize   the   promotion   and
diversification  of  agricultural  and  export-oriented  activities.   The
agricultural program calls for the development of areas less susceptible to
drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where rainfed cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown, and increased incentives for domestic millet and
maize production to replace imported rice. Agricultural research is being
reoriented, with the objective of lowering the costs of yield-boosting
agricultural techniques and better adapting them to local constraints.
Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the arid northern part of
the country along the Senegal River. Construction has started on the two
large dams planned for the Senegal River by the Organisation pour la Mise
en Valeur de la Vallee du Senegal (OMVS), and the first (Diama) should be
completed  in  1986.   The  Government's new  agriculture  policy aims  to
eliminate the present high level of state subsidies required on irrigated
rice production, which otherwise would severely constrain the pace of new
irrigation development.
17.       The US$250 million ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer project started
commercial  operations  during  1984,  and  the  combination  of  export
subsidy/import duty increase and Senegal's attractive investment c'-.e
should help to attract other   export industries, once the international
economy has improved. Export diversification is necessary to offset the
uncertain prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity
in terms of domestic value-added (fish exports from Senegal have a high
import  component).    Senegal's  groundnut  oil   exports   suffer  from
increasingly irregular production due to recent drought conditions anJ f.orn
an increased supply to EEC markets of competing vegetable oils, which has
tended to narrow the price premium previously enjoyed by groundnut oil.
18.       The assistance provided to Senegal in support of the Government's
1980-85 stabilization program has helped the country survive a period of
extraordinary economic difficulty and to start to address some of its most
difficult problems. However, the overextended public sector, as well as
heavy domestic arrears and external debt service charges, continue to



-6-
impose serious burdens on public finance and on the current account of the
balance of payments.   The Treasury will not be able  to absorb additional
recurrent cost charges from development projects for a few years and will
continue to need exceptionally high shares of foreign financing for the
investment program and budgetary assistance on concessional terms.  The
persistence of the financial crisis has already persuaded the country's
planners wf the need to reassess the development strategy and to establish
a new program of action to achieve the necessary structural adjustments.
Such a program was presented to the Consultative Group meeting in December
1984 and endorsed by the donors. The Bank aims to strengthen its support
for the Government's efforts to stabilize and restructure the economy, in
coordination with the IMF and other donors. A second structural adjustment
credit is currently under preparation,  in support of the government's
adjustment program, which we hope to present to the Board during the
current fiscal year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
19.       As of June 30, 1985, the Bank Group had approved 57 operations in
Senegal for a total of US$544.6 million, including 32 IDA Credits, 12 Bank
loans, five blends of Bank and IDA funds, five IFC operations, two blends
of Bank and IFC funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Physical
execution of projects is progressing reasonably well, although some
operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the
Government's  continuing difficult public  finance  situation.   Annex  II
contains the Status of World Bank Operations in Senegal.
20.       Until a few years ago, our assistance was mostly project-oriented
with a strong emphasis on diversification of the economy and improvement
and expansion of basic infrastructure. The acuity of the financial crisis
of the past several years has led to a major shift in our strategy, which
now has the following three main objectives:
a)   to pursue  an  economic  policy  dialogue  with  the  government,
supported where appropriate through technical assistance and
policy-based lending operations, aimed at improving economic
management and restoring in the medium-term a sound financial
basis for development efforts;
b)   to promote the long-term development of the country by supporting
well-prepared investment, rehabilitation and sectoral adjustment
projects within a framework of appropriate sectoral policies and
institutional reforms; and
c)   to contribute to improved aid effectiveness in Senegal by acting
as the focal point for greatly increased aid coordination between
donors and government, at the same time assisting the latter to
strengthen its own planning and aid coordination ability.



-7-
21.       In  agriculture,  operations  have  aimed  at  improving  the
productivity of traditional food and cash crops, supporting diversification
into new crops and regions, and enhancing forestry outputs and agricultural
research. In FY84, the Board approved a cotton/food crop project for the
rainfed regions of Eastern Senegal and Upper Casamance which is progressing
well. At the core of the Government's development program in agriculture
is the exploitation of the irrigated rice farming potential in the Senegal
River Valley along the northern border of the country; this is described iu
Part III of this report.
22.       Diversification has also been supported by lending to the growing
industrial sector through the Societe Financiare Senegalaise pour le
Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development
finance company established with Bank assistance in 1974, in which IFC is a
shareholder and for which three lines of credit have been approved. The
Bank has also financed the rail infrastructure component for the ICS
phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex and an engineering credit to promote
development of Senegal's phosphate industry. In response to the effects of
the 1979 oil crisis, the Bank has also financed a petroleum exploration
promotion project to assist the Government in its search for economical new
energy resources.
23.       Past projects have strongly supported modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure in all modes of transport: highways, rail,
port  and  airport.   But  with  the  stagnant  economy  and  heavy  past
investments, emphasis is now being placed on better utilization and
maintenance of existing facilities.  To this end, three projects were
approved during FY84: a Fifth Highway Project addresses the Government's
limited capacity to provide funds for road maintenance; the Dakar Container
Port Project includes rehabilitation and maintenance of the Port of Dakar;
and  the  Technical  Assistance   Project   for  Urban  Management  and
Rehabilitation  emphasizes  maintenance  and  rehabilitation  of  urban
infrastructure in support of industrial development.
24.       As in infrastructure, the Bank is supporting the rehabilitation,
modernizatior. and  expansion  of  the  major  public  utilities.    In
telecommunications, preparation is underway on a project which would
restructure  and  reequip  the  sector  entity.   In  electric  power,  an
engineering credit approved in 1980 led to sector reorganization proposals,
and a follow-up investment project aimed at rehabilitation and expansion of
generating capacity and at energy conservation is now under preparation.
Finally, in the urban water supply and sanitation sector, an engineering
credit, approved in 1979, laid the groundwork for sector reorganization,
supported by the Eleven Centers Water Supply and Sewerage Project which was
approved in March 1985.
25.       While Bank strategy has supported  the emphasis on financing
productive projects and rehabilitation needs, it also recognizes the need
to support the social sectors, with due consideration to the capacity of
both the Government and users to bear the recurrent costs involved.  In
education, efforts have been directed at primary education and at technical
and vocational training to support activities in the productive sectors,



-8-
and in health, efforts have been directed at primary care in the rural
regions.
26.       As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic
and financial problems ran across the board and could not be addressed
exclusively through project lending, the Bank program began to shift in the
late   1970s   towards   structural   adjustment   lending   (para.18)   and
multi-sectoral technical assistance.   Two operations in support of this
latter effort are currently being implemented: in the parapublic sector,
a second technical assistance project was approved in July 1983 to help
consolidate results already achieved under the first project and to begin
rehabilitation of some key public enterprises through detailed action
plans; and a technical assistance project for economic and financial
planning was approved in August 1980 to help the Ministry of Planning
evaluate priority projects and monitor the investment program and the
Finance Ministry to strengthen its debt management capability. A follow-up
Project is being prepared to consolidate progress made in improved economic
management.
27.       Given the need to focus Senegal's public investment program on
high-priority rehabilitation and maintenance needs and recurrent costs,
improved donor coordination is now assuming increased importance. The Bank
is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with
the INF and bilateral and multilateral donors.  In this connection, the
Bank convened a first meeting of the Consultative Group in December 1984 at
which agreement was reached on the policy measures, assistance levels and
aid coordination mechanisms needed to enable Senegal to overcome its
economic and financial difficulties. The Bank followed up on this meeting
by preparing a structural adjustment operation, and by organizing sector
meetings of interested donors on telecommunications and energy.  Further
sector meetings   are planned during  1985-86  for the water supply and
agriculture sectors.  A second CG meeting is also planned for 1986 to
consider the Government's new investment program.
28.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1980-83 averaged approximately 20Z, of which roughly
two-thirds  was  IDA-financed.   The  Bank  Group's  share  in  outstanding
disbursed debt was 18% at end-1983 and may approach 20Z by 1985. The Bank
Group's share in external debt service is estimated to have risen from 3.7%
in 1980 to about 7.5% in 1985.
PART III - THE IRRIGATION SUB-SECTOR
29.       Senegal's irrigation potential compares favorably with that of
most other countries in the region.  Water and soil resources have the
potential to irrigate over 400,000 ha, of which about 60%, or 240,000 ha,
are in the Senegal river basin, and the remainder in the Southern region of
Casamance. Irrigation has so far known only limited development, covering
only 75,000 ha, due to a number of adverse factors: some are economic,



- 9 -
such as the need for pumping and the resultant high investment and
operation costs; others are institutional or policy-related, such as
distorted    cost-price    relationships,    and    capital-intensive    and
bureaucratically managed schemes. Still others are financial, because of
the  high  cost  of  investment  in  Infrastructure.   In  spite  of  these
constraints, irrigation remains one of the alternatives to alleviate the
effects of temporary drought and also remains an important element in
increased  food  production.   A  number  of  policy,  institutional  and
attitudinal changes are now taking place that draw on the sometimes costly
experiments of the past and allow the development of increasingly economic
irrigation schemes.
30.       Irrigated crops consist essentially of rice, tomato, sugar cane
and some local cereals.  Rice in Casamance is partially irrigated.  In the
Senegal river basin, paddy production, which is exclusively irrigated,
increased from 40,000 tons in 1981/82 to 75,000 tons in 1984/85, with an
average yield of 4.7 tons/ha. Total paddy production in Senegal was about
120,000 tons in 1984/85 or 80,000 tons of equivalent rice, which represents
about 15% of the country's total rice consumption of about 540,000 tons.
Total production of tomatoes was about 20,000 tons in 1984/85, which is
about one third of Senegal's total consumption. Production of local sugar
amounted to 57,000 tons in 1984/85, compared to a total consumption of
82,000 tons.  In addition,  irrigated areas produce about 10,000 tons of
maize, millet and sorghum per year, compared to a total production of these
cereals varying between 500,000 and 1,000,000 tons; regular imports supply
about 400,000 tons, and food aid 400,000 tons in bad production years. The
contribution of irrigated agriculture to food supply is therefore
significant, particularly wnen one considers the rainfall trend of the last
decade and the declining prospects for rainfed agriculture in many areas.
31.       Flood recession used to be a widespread irrigation technique in
Senegal; this traditional technique was associated with low input levels
and resulted in low yields.  Insufficient rainfall in recent years and the
consequent change in flood levels have, however,  led to  a substantial
decline in flood recession agriculture.   After the drought of the late
1960s and early 1970s, the Government therefore decided to shift from flood
control to irrigation schemes involving full water control. With the help
of many bilateral and multilateral institutions, including the Bank Group,
some 20,000 ha have been fully or partially developed along the Senegal
river, of which about 12,000 ha are mainly large-scale perimeters in the
Delta; another 8,000 ha in the middle Senegal river valley are mainly
small village perimeters. The flood recession area could be increased by
appropriate water management, in particular in the Senegal river valley,
after the construction of the Manantali dam (para. 42).  In order to help
meet Senegal's projected cereals deficit, Government plans to develop new
perimeters and to rehabilitate over 15,000 ha net during the 1984-1987
period, or about 5,000 ha per year.  However, IDA estimates that a more
realistic assumption would be about 10,000 ha for the three-year period, or
about 3,500 ha per year. Those areas will be double cropped, after
commissioning  of  the  Diama  dam.   In  Casamance,  because  of  physical
constraints, IDA recommends that emphasis be placed on the implementation
of pilot projects during this period (paras. 43 and 49).



- 10 -
32.       The  most  successful  irrigation  schemes  have  been  the  small
village perimeters such as those in the upper Senegal river valley, where
farmers have demonstrated that they can manage irrigation with a minimum of
public assistance, provided the schemes are geared to their capabilities.
This idea has been used in part in the IDA-financed Debi-Laupsar project,
and more extensively in the N'Dombo-Thiago project,  financed by Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The results achieved so far are
encouraging and the Government's new strategy is to expand farmers'
participation to the large irrigation schemes, where SAED traditionally has
handled water distribution without really involving the beneficiaries. One
of  the  prerequisites  for  successful  operation  and  management  by
farmers/water-users would be a guaranteed, timely and sufficient water
supply; to this end, a number of physical improvements would have to be
introduced in the existing perimeters (para. 62).
Sector Policies and Institutions
33.       In   most   Sahelian   countries,   irrigation   started   before
independence in the form of large scale schemes conceived as parastatals in
which  farmers only contributed  their labor.   This concept endured and
irrigation is still largely the responsibility of large parastatals such as
SAED in the Senegal Valley.   In this framework, development costs grew
beyond what was affordable, first for farmers and later for Government
finances. As is shown below in the case of SAED, not only new investments,
but maintenance and services to farmers suffered, resulting in reduction of
irrigated areas.   In any  event,  production  at  its real cost,  and in
particular that of rice, ceased to be competitive with imports. Faced with
a steeply pent-up demand for basic food staples (essentially rice) and
increasingly   limited   resources,   Senegal   recently   reassessed   its
agricultural  policies.   Two  important  principles  of  the comprehensive
"Nouvelle Politique Agricole" (NPA) have a bearing on the irrigation
subsector.  The first principle deals with the progressive disengagement of
inefficient rural development companies from production and marketing
activities  and  the  transfer  of  their activities  to smaller and more
competitive enterprises whose costs could be more readily reduced; this is
expected to be implemented within five years. This transfer applies to
SAED (para. 37) and SOMIVAC (para. 40), the two institutions most involved
in Senegal's irrigation development, and has already involved the layoff of
about 2,000 employees from rural development companies, for whom the Bank
is determined to facilitate resettlement in new activities of the private
sector (para. 64). The second principle of the NPA is the establishment of
a cereals policy, whereby the Government would encourage the production of
local cereals (rice, sorghum, millet, maize) by increasing consumer prices
and, hence,  production prices.   Steps in that direction were taken in
January 1985 with a 232 increase in the consumer price of rice.
Institutions in the Sector
a) SAED
34.       The "Societ:6 d'Amenagement  et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Senegal et des Vallees du Fleuve Seuegal et de la Faleme" (SAED),



- 11 -
transformed into a national company in 1981, is the main national
irrigation organization, with headquarters in St. Louis.  It is a publicly
owned company covering the area of the proposed project, and most of the
rice  in  the  Senegal  valley  is produced  under  its  supervision.   Its
employees number 940, of which 841 are contractual employees, 77 civil
servants seconded by the Senegalese Administration to SAED and 22
expatriate technical advisers, financed by French aid.  According to its
statutes,  its operations  include:  land preparation,  implementation and
maintenance of irrigated perimeters, input distribution and provision of
all agricultural services to the rural population of the area.   Before the
discussions that led to the formulation of the NPA, Government's policy was
to keep cereal production prices approximately in line with international
prices. Because the international price of rice had increased less than
the cost of living in Senegal and because it had been necessary to maintain
farmers' incomes vis-a-vis those of other groups benefitting from low
consumer prices based on the cost of imports, the Government had directed
SAED to reduce the cost of inputs and services to farmers, thus keeping
their  incomes  at  a  satisfactory  level  (para.  37).   As  long  as  the
Government was able to subsidize SAED to compensate for the reduced revenue
from sales to farmers, SAED's operations broke even, though a policy of
systematic assistance proved neither stimulating to farmers nor conducive
to  SAED's   efficiency,   and  SAED's  operations  became   increasingly
bureaucratic. In the last two years, the Government has ceased to provide
the required subsidies because of budgetary constraints, and SAED's
operations have rapidly deteriorated.
35.       SAED's only profitable activity is rice milling; it buys paddy
from the farmers and sells rice to the Caisse de Pir6quation et de
Stabilisation des Prix (CPSP).  The selling price of rice is negotiated
with CPSP each year on the basis of SAED's marketing, processing, inventory
and administrative costs, and provides a small margin for SAED.  Until
1984/1985, SAED has been incurring heavy losses on all other activities,
either because it had not charged farmers the full operating cost of its
physical services, (land preparation, water use, and input distribution
were subsidized), or because it had never charged interest for deferred
repayments on inputs by farmers.  The result was that for 1982/83 and
1983/84, SAED needed Government grants of about CFAF 2 billion (US$4.2
million) each year. Because of severe budgetary constraints, the Government
was unable to provide those grants, SAED lost the cash reserve it had
accumulated in previous years, and, in 1984/85, SAED's net short-term
liabilities seriously hampered its ability to conduct normal business.
36.       Since 1981, the company has entered into a contract with the
Government, the "'lettre de mission", which defines the objectives and the
policy of the company for three-year periods and sets out Government's
obligations towards the company to achieve these objectives.  The first
"lettre de mission" covered the period from July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984
and the second one extends from July 1, 1984 to June 30, 1987 (para. 56).
"nder the first "lettre de mission", SAED implemented measures aimed at
progressively decentralizing its management and giving more responsibility
to the farmers. In 1980/81, land was allotted to farmers without any time
limit, instead of on an annual basis as had previously been the case.



- 12 -
Extension workers replaced formal supervisors, new farmers' groups were
created, and management training and literacy programs were introduced. In
1983 and 1984, the formally centralized management of perimeters, rice
mills and civil works was progressively transferred to decentralized
operational divisions in the valley perimeters.   The second "lettre de
mission" (para. 57) is pursuing these efforts but even more importantly
will lay the ground for discontinuing subsidies, transfer a number of its
activities to the private sector and adjust its objectives and structure
accordingly.
37.       SAED's current services can be grouped into two categories: those
whose delivery by a central authority is justified and those which should
be passed on to firms more adaptive to changing market conditions, and that
would charge farmers full price for the services.   The first group of
services  includes:  (a) planning and programming of construction of new
perimeters, and of rehabilitation of existing ones; (b) supervising the
construction of the major collective installations and maintaining them;
(c) helping organize village groups and advising them; and (d) literacy,
technical and management training. The second group of services includes
those that are partly subsidized and should be progressively transferred to
specialized units that are more wieldy than SAED: (i) land preparation,
i.e. plowing, leveling and ridging; (ii) pumping water for irrigation;
(iii)   input   distribution;   (iv) repair   of   agricultural   equipment;
(v) purchasing and processing paddy; (vi) marketing rice and other
agricultural products; and (vii) providing credit facilities.  The first
group of services consists of public services that concern a large area and
whose costs cannot be allocated to new works and rehabilitation works; thus
their high cost cannot be recovered by billing farmers.  The Government
agreed in the "lettre de mission" that those service charges would be
financed by public funds.   Subsidies for the second group of services,
wnich are directly related to agricultural production, would be eliminated
::er time.  Those services would be expected to be provided by private
i-rms, as there are no public firms of the required size and flexibility,
but such firms could only operate if there is an adequate rice price policy
(para. 46). In the event that the private sector is slow in taking over
SAED's activities, SAED's disengagement process would take longer than
expected and this would have an impact on  the implementation  of any
follow-on project (para. 81).
38.       In the past two years, SAED's accounting system has much improved
with the help of technical assistance and the introduction of an IDA-
..inanced cost accounting system, but cost and budgetary accounting is not
vet reliable and fully operational. A consultant financed by French aid is
presently setting up the necessary procedures.
39.       SAED's financial statements as of June 30, 1984 were audited by a
local firm (Annex 4).  In spite of considerable improvements in SAED's
accounting, the auditors could not certify the financial statements of
1983/84 in their report dated April 20. 1985.  They expect to give a
qualified certification for the statements of 1984/85, following partial
implementation of improved accounting procedures, as a result of their
report on internal controls issued in February 1985, and expect to give



- 13 -
full certification for the statements of 1985/86.  IDA is satisfied that
SAED's accounting organization is sound; the 1983/84 statements were not
certified for technical reasons and, had the recommendations of the report
on financial controls been available earlier to SAED for implementation in
1984/85, financial statements for that year could have been made
certifiable. However IDA wants to ensure that the recommendations of that
report would be implemented before effectiveness (para. 73).
b) SOMIVAC
40.       The Soci4t4 de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance (SOMIVAC)
is a regional irrigation development agency which provides technical
assistance to farmers in the Casamance region, and is in charge of
functional literacy programs and cooperative development.  It implements
its programs through an integrated agricultural development project
financed by USAID. Its activities will also be reduced in line with the
NPA (para. 33).
c)  OMVS
41.       Regulation  of  the  Senegal  River  to  increase  irrigation
development has been sought jointly by the riparian states of Senegal, Mali
and Mauritania, which established in 1972 the "Organisation pour la Mise en
Valeur du Fleuve Sneigal" (0MVS).  OMVS, assisted by UNDP, has prepared an
ambitious long-range development program to achieve year-round irrigation
on potential areas along the river. The main secondary benefits would be
the production of hydroelectric power and the year-round navigability of
the river up to the Malian border. While the major infrastructure will be
planned, executed and operated by OMVS, the member countries are
responsible for the national components of the OMVS program.
42.       The most important projects planned are the construction of two
dams at Diama and Manantali. Design work for Diama, funded by FAC, was
undertaken in the early 1970s, and for Manantali, funded by the Federal
Republic of Germany, through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) in the
mid-1970s. OMVS has meanwhile acquired financing for this program. The
completion of the Diama and Manantali dams is expected by mid-1986 and
during  1989,  respectively.   The  scope for irrigation without dams  is
estimated at about 80,000 ha for single cropping. The Diama dam, located
24 km inland from the mouth of the Senegal river, will permit irrigation
for double cropping in the Delta region on some 46,000 ha in Senegal
alone 1/ and will prevent salt water intrusion upstream during periods of
low river flow. The multipurpose Manantali dam is located in Mali, about
300 km upstream from the border. Its maximum annual power production is
estimated to be 800 GWh and it will provide water to an area of 375,000 ha,
1/  An additional 30,000 ha are available in Mauritania.



- 14 -
of which more than half is located in Senegal 2/. The Manantali dam will
regulate the flow of the river downstream as far as Diama.
Constraints and Prospects
43.       Physical constraints to irrigation development are most severe in
Lower Casamance where, under the influence of the continued drought, soils
in the irrigated perimeters have undergone changes, of which the most
serious are a lowering of the organic matter content and acidification.
SOMIVAC is presently experimenting with the existing anti-salt dams in
order to develop viable methods and techniques for the reclamation and
conservation of these soils.
44.       In the Senegal river valley, soils are generally heavily textured
as well as partly saline in the Delta and lower valley, which limits the
range of crop choices: the heavier soils are more suited for the
cultivation of rice and, to a limited extent, sugar cane.
45.       Irrigated  agriculture  in  the  Senegal  basin  is  also  quite
expensive under current conditions.   Because of the topography of the
valley and the virtual disappearance of flood recession (para. 31), most
irrigation has to be done by pumping which, because of investment, fuel and
maintenance expenditures, increases the cost of water. Also, the type of
development adopted by the Government and SAED, i.e., large, uniform and
centrally managed perimeters, requires extensive land preparation work,
and especially levelling to ensure adequate water utilization. Moreover,
much extensive land preparation was traditionally carried out by SAED with
heavy equipment,  the amortization of which proved difficult.   Finally,
until the Diama dam and, more importantly, the Manantali dam come into
operation, the potential for double cropping remains extremely limited and
restricts productivity. These constraints are now being addressed through
the second SAED "lettre de mission" with the support of the proposed
project. It has now been realized that small perimeters are better suited
to the utilization of land and water resources simply because they adapt
better  to  local  conditions  and  are  easier  to  manage.   Alternative
techniques for land preparation will be studied under the proposed project
(para. 61) and trials will be conducted; as pre-irrigation reduces traction
requirements, it would allow for light mechanization and in certain cases
animal traction; both techniques would be less capital intensive than is
the case now and could easily be utilized by farmers (as opposed to SAED),
thereby further reducing operating costs.  Finally, the availability of
regulated waters when the dams are operational will permit substantial
increases in both irrigated acreage and cropping intensity.
2/   Includes the area for which irrigation water will be available from
the Diana dam; the total command area in Mauritania is about 120,000
ha.



- 15 -
46.       Because it is the dominant crop in the valley, rice stands to
benefit most from the easing of physical and technical constraints
described  above.   However,  there  remain  economic  and  institutional
constraints  to  restoring  and  maintaining  an  acceptable  level  of
competitiveness vis-&-vis imports.  The main handicap that irrigated rice
production faces is the depressed international rice price level, which
makes irrigated rice production in the Senegal valley a marginal financial
proposition at the current exchange rate.  Since the exchange rate cannot
easily be modified in view of Senegal's position in the CFA zone, the
financial disadvantage of domestic rice production must be partly overcome
through a flexible consumer price policy.   The Government  has already
implemented one of NPA's policy decisions by increasing the consumer price
of rice by 23% (100% in three years, since 1982) (paras. 33 and 53).
Moreover, SAED's disengagement from the agricultural production process as
part of the NPA (para. 33) should progressively restore both the
flexibility of market mechanisms and the incentives for private initiative,
which are crucial for the very small enterprises prevailing in the
agricultural sector, as well as in the supply of inputs and in the
marketing and processing of agricultural products.
47.        Until  ongoing  reforms  have  restored  an  adequate  price
equilibrium in the Senegal River Valley, IDA supports Government's decision
on the following priorities:  (i) rehabilitation and cost-saving in the
large perimeters; (ii) full cost charges for services (including inputs)
rendered to both small and large perimeters in order to permit private
suppliers of such services to enter the market; (iii) expansion through
small perimeters and rehabilitation of large perimeters, prior to expansion
through large perimeters; and  (iv)  reintroduction of large-scale flood
recession cropping.
48.       Apart  from  rehabilitation  of  existing  perimeters  and  the
construction of new small village perimeters in the Senegal river basin,
the introduction of large-scale controlled flood recession cropping for
traditional crops (sorghum, millet, maize) appears to be a way to use the
abundant water resources that will become available as of 1989 upon
completion of the Manantali dam.  It is estimated that about 100,000 ha
would be suitable for flood recession use.  A better estimate would be
provided by a study now underway on the use of the Manantali waters and by
the master irrigation plan of the valley. The Government also intends to
allow private enterprises to invest in the development of the valley and
this would be done in consultation with IDA (para.  74).  The procosed
master plan study (para. 61) would evaluate the consequences of such
developments.
49.       Because of the physical constraints (para. 43), rehabilitation
and construction of new perimeters in the Casamance should be limited until
acceptable solutions for soil conservation have been found.  Meanwhile,
only pilot projects should be implemented and monitored (para. 31).
50.       Bank Group Involvement in the Sector.  The proposed project would
be the Bank Group's sixteenth lending operation in the agricultural sector.
Two of the projects have been for irrigation development in the Senegal



- 16 -
River Valley, two for rice cultivation in Casamance, two for agricultural
credit, and two for resettlement in the thinly populated regions of Eastern
Senegal.   In addition,  the Bank Group has financed a rural development
project in the Sine Saloum region, a livestock development project in
Eastern Senegal, and an emergency drought relief program.  A small rural
operations project, a forestry project, an irrigation project, a rural
development project, and an agricultural research project are currently
under implementation. Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued
for six projects: the First Agricultural Credit Project, the First
Casamance Rice Project, the Terres Neuves I Resettlement Project, the
Drought Relief Project, the Senegal River Polders Project, the Second
Agricultural Credit Project, and the Terres Neuves II Resettlement and the
Eastern  Senegal  Technical  Assistance  Project.   The  main  shortcomings
mentioned in the Project Performance Audit Reports for these pro4ects
concern (a) the quality of engineering design and supervision of
construction of project works; (b) marketing practices, unremunerative
prices and input distribution; (c) the need to investigate more thoroughly
the social aspects involved in project planning and execution; and (d)
difficulties in obtaining counterpart funds.  Although these lessons are
not all relevant to the proposed Project, particular attention was paid
during appraisal to organizational aspects, counterpart contributions and
prices for agricultural products, especially rice.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
51.       The original design of an Irrigation project called for the
rehabilitation of 3,245 ha of existing perimeters, the construction of
2,130 ha of new perimeters,as well as the electrification of pumping in the
Delta.  The project was pre-appraised by an IDA mission in early 1982.
However, the situation caused by SAED's deficit from its production-related
activities raised policy issues which needed to be resolved before the
project could be appraised. The deficit, which was meant to be covered by
Government subsidies, was generated by a policy of under-charging the cost
of services and inputs provided by SAED to farmers.
52.       Since 1983, the Bank has participated in a series of meetings
with the Senegalese authorities and the other major aid agencies. These
meetings helped define a series of urgent policy measures for agriculture
to be applied by  the Government  and supported by aid agencies.   The
suggested policy reforms aim to restore the competitiveness of local food
crops vis-a-vis imports, since Government can no longer meet the cost of
subsidies to both producers and regional development companies, and to
ensure that development projects are self-sustaining after the investment
period. These ideas were most relevant in the case of SAED.
53.       At the request of the President of the Republic, a seminar was
convened in March 1984 to discuss agricultural policy issues with the major
lenders.  In April, the President made a number of policy decisions that
constitute the "Nouvelle Politique Agricole"  (NPA) (para. 33).  A major



- 17 -
measure calls for a reduction in the responsibilities and number of staff
in rural development companies, that is, "deperissement", or a winding down
process. In the second half of 1984, the Government began to implement the
NPA, indicating its determination to reform the agricultural structure.
Among the initiatives relevant to the proposed project was an increase in
the consumer price of rice from CFAF 130/kg to CFAF 160/kg, effective on
January 15, 1985,   3/  a move indicative of the utilization of cereal
pricing as a basic demand-management tool.
54.       Meanwhile, the Government had started discussions internally and
with various aid agencies. A general policy framework was established in
December 1984, a second "lettre de mission" for SAED was signed, and public
funds have been allocated to the financing of SAED's public service
activities, i.e., those associated with planning, programming, supervising
construction and maintenance of major works, as well as training (para.
36).
55.       IDA supports the Government's long-term objectives of development
of irrigated agriculture in the Senegal river valley, in which SAED has a
major role to play. These objectives require, however, that the cost of
irrigation development  be decreased.   This  implies  the adoption of a
strategy favoring small-scale perimeters, and a thorough transformation of
SAED's structure and operations.
SAED's Second "Lettre de Mission"
56.       The preparation of the "lettre de mission", accomplished by SAED
with the assistance of the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) and IDA, analyzed the many causes of
SAED's problems. The price of paddy was not high enough to reward farmers'
efforts, although various forms of subsidies (para. 37) were supposed to
compensate for this. SAED sold inputs  (fertilizers,  seeds, herbicides,
pesticides) well below their purchase price. It did not make the farmers
pay the full price of land preparation (levelling, plowing, offsetting) and
water, which is pumped from the river and distributed through a network of
canals.   SAED  used  its  own  services  to maintain  tractors  and  other
agricultural equipment and earthmoving machines.   Finally,  the cost of
seasonal credit was borne by  SAED.   This disregard of basic economic
mechanisms led to a situation where operations were run by a cumbersome
administration, SAED, and where farmers did not feel committed to
agricultural operations that remained to a large extent out of their
control. As operations expanded, the Government, on which SAED depended to
finance its deficit, became unable to provide the needed subsidies due to
severe budgetary constraints (para. 37) and this difficulty can now only be
remedied by external assistance (para. 63).
3/   The previous increases occurred in January 1982, from CFAF 80 to 105,
and in August 1983 to CFAF 130.



- 18 -
57.       The basic geal of the "lettre de mission" is progressively to
relieve Government of the burden of financing SAED's production-related
activities and to transform SAED, which is now both a rural developer and a
service unit for farmers, into a strictly public service company. Over the
next few years, SAED would progressively surrender its ancillary service
activities to smaller and more flexible private enterprises, to attain a
new financial balance by redistributing charges between the Government and
the  farmers  in  accordance  with  the  NPA.   To  this  end,  the  SAED
disengagement process outlined by the "lettre de mission" calls for the
gradual relinquishing of activities that can be transferred to more
adaptive firms (para. 37). The speed, extent and necessary conditions of
this disengagement will be determined by the results of the studies (para.
61). The second "lettre de mission" therefore prescribes (i) disengagement
studies; (ii) implementation of urgent delayed maintenance; (iii) payment
by the Government of funds to cover, for the years 1984/85 through 1986/87,
SAED's public service activities, which SAED will retain after its
transformation, and (iv) financing by other lenders of SAED's decreasing
operational requirements. These operational requirements correspond to the
activities that will be transferred to the private sector during the period
covered by the "lettre de mission" (para. 37).
58.       As a result of the implementation of the "lettre de mission",
SAED would become more a planning and supervising agency than it is today.
It would contract for and supervise the construction and maintenance of
major collective irrigation installations, which should remain centrally
controlled, and would continue to help village groups to organize and to
manage their irrigation operations.
59.       To  help  achieve  the  long  term  objectives  of  agricultural
development in the valley, a sequence of projects has therefore been
devised:
a)   A  first  (reorientation  and  maintenance)  project,  i.e.,  the
proposed one, from mid-1985 to mid-1987. The project would be
co-financed by IDA, CCCE/FAC and USAID and would help the
Government and SAED to execute the objectives of the second
"lettre de mission" (para. 57. items (i) to (iv)).
b)   A second project (wi:h restructuring, rehabilitation and possibly
some   new   construction),   would   be   appraised   after   the
recommendations  of  the  disengagement  studies  have  become
available. The construction period of this second project would
run from the beginning of 1987 to the end of 1989. Preparation
of the physical works to be included in this project is now
underway. A preliminary estimate of the economic rate of return
of the planned project is 16Z (it would be above 10% for new
perimeters alone), taking the construction costs of the Diama and
Manantali dams as sunk costs.



- 19 -
c)   Subsequent (expansion) projects would include the construction of
new perimeters throughout the valley, which would coincide with
the operation of the Manantali dam.
Project Description
60.       The proposed project would:
-    carry out the disengagement studies for activities that will be
progressively taken over by the private sector;
-    implement urgent maintenance works;
-    finance SAED's operating deficit during the period of the "lettre
de mission";and
-    provide funds for the resettlement of former staff from rural
development companies.
a) Studies
61.       Five studies are included in the "lettre de mission", with a view
to preparing SAED's disengagement process.
Ci)  The first study would define the steps of the disengagement
up to June 30, 1987, with a view to transforming SAED into a
company that would only deal with planning and supetrvising
the development of the valley. This means abandoning SAED's
involvement in agricultural production through subsidized
land  preparation,   repairs  of  agricultural  equipment,
distribution of inputs, credit, and operation of rice mills.
The study would deal with the problem of phasing out
personnel and finding new jobs for the employees who would
be compelled to leave SAED in stages as a result of its
reduced activity. Consultants for that study are expected
to give their conclusions before the end of October 1985.
(ii)  A companion study would examine the scope and the conditions
for the establishment of private enterprises in the valley
to take over the activities relinquished by SAED. Such new
private ventures would include the operations of: varehouses
for input distribution, tractors and other equipment
services, mechanical repair shops, and rice mills in
association or in competition with existing dehullers.
(iii)  Another  study related  to disengagement would  deal with
agricultural  credit.   It  would  involve  the  national
agricultural credit organization, Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole du Senegal (CNCAS), which woull have to decide on
the timing and logistics of opening branches in the valley
to provide credit to farmers and small private businesses.
There is already a strong suppressed demand for short- or



- 20 -
medium-term credit for input distribution, land preparation
works, and purchase and repair of agricultural equipment.
(iv) The last disengagement study is technical in nature and
relates to the new farming conditions that will result from
the spread of double cropping after the commissioning of the
Diama dam in mid-1986, and from planned flood recessian
cropping after the commissioning of the Manantali dam in
1989  (para. 42).  The study will explore new types of
agricultural equipment and will examine whether animal
traction can be introduced into the valley as a means of
reducing production costs which are to be fully borne by the
farmers upon SAED's disengagement.
(v) Because the economics of irrigation will be profoundly
modified by the operation of the new dams, a master plan is
necessary for the long-term development of irrigated
agriculture on the laft bank of the valley.  The master plan
would have to be coordinated with an operational study (dam
operation and optimal use of water) for the Manantali dam
financed by an SPPF, and with OMVS, since the Senegal river
waters will be used for irrigation, electricity and
navigation. The master plan for the left bank, in Senegal,
would have to be linked to a master plan for the right bank,
in Mauritania, and also with the master plan of the part of
the river which is located in Mali between the Manantali dam
and the Senegalese border.  The master plan for the left
bank would be the synthesis of subregional plans, two of
which, those of Bakel, in the upper valley, and of the
Delta, in the lower valley, would have to be completed
beforehand.
It was agreed at negotit.tions that SAED would prepare an action program on
the steps to be taken for its disengagement, based on the recommendations
of the first four of the above studies, and that the action program would
be submitted to the Association for approval before January 31, 1986. In
addition, to ensure continuity in the policies applied to SAED and in
SAED's contractual relationship with the Government, it was agreed at
negotiations that a third "lettre de mission " would be prepared prior to
the end of the current one; this third "lettre de mission" would be based
on the objectives defined for SAED in para 58 above.
b) Maintenance Works
62.       Tne second "lettre de mission" provides for maintenance works
that had been postponed for lack of funds and are now urgently needed by
SAED to conduct its operations for the duration of the "lettre de mission".
They include:
(i) the provision of spare parts to the Delta pumping stations
and the installation of two emergency pumping groups;



- 21 -
(ii)  repairs or overhaul of earthmoving equipment for current
operations;
(iii)  repairs  or  overhaul  of  tractors  and  land  preparation
equipment for current operations;
(iv)  maintenance of the rice mills of Ross Bethio and Richard
Toll; and
(v)  maintenance   of  irrigation  and  drainage  network  and
protection against flooding.
c) Financing SAED's Operational Expenses
63.       The "lettre de mission" has made a distinction between two kinds
of operations financing for SAED: that of the cost of public service
activities which SAED will continue to perform, beyond the disengagement
period, and the decreasing subsidies that will finance, only for the
duration of the "lettre de mission"1, the activities which SAED will
eventually relinquish to the private sector. Presently, and at least for
the duration of the "lettre de mission", farmers are unable to contribute
to the payment of public services, such as planning of the development of
the valley and construction and maintenance of major collective
installations (para. 37). The Government therefore agreed in the "lettre
de mission" to finance such services. However, because of severe budgetary
constraints similar to those of the past years (para. 56), the Government
will not be able to finance all sectoral adjustment subsidies, which will
thus have to be financed by foreign co-lenders (para. 67). Those of SAED's
operational requirements that are to be covered by those subsidies would
consist of recurrent costs, spare parts and maintenance works, petroleum
products and service supplies, whereas the payment of arrears to suppliers,
to the Government and public institutions would be primarily financed by
Government's funds. Those arrears would then be paid first, according to
the order of precedence.  It was agreed at negotiations that, prior to
IDA's first disbursement, and not later than March 31, 1986, there should
be no arrears going back further than six months.
d)   Financing the Resettlement of Former Staff from Rural Development
Companies
64.       At the time of negotiations, IDA accepted at the Government's
request to participate in partly financing the resettlement, in productive
activities of the private sector, of about 2,000 employees laid off by
rural  development  companies  (para.  33).   This  financing  would  be
implemented through Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le D&veloppement de
1'Industrie  et du Tourisme  (SOFISEDIT).   The Government would  open a
Resettlement  Fund for that purpose and would deposit  therein amounts
totalling  US$1,000,000  equivalent.   It  would  also  deposit  in  the
Ressettlement Fund the amount  of US$500,000  equivalent  allocated  by
IDA and the   US$500,000 equivalent grant/credit provided by other lenders,
and relend the proceeds of the Fund under the terms of a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfactory to IDA to be entered into by the Government -
SOFISEDIT. SOFISEDIT would therefore be responsible for         -
the Resettlement Fund and for the allocation of funds
rural development companies, who would apply for assistarc:-.



- 22 -
their own business, under criteria to be approved by IDA. A condition of
disbursement of the IDA credit for this component would be the initial
deposit of US$500,000 equivalent by the Government in the Resettlrment
Fund. This initial deposit should be made by June 30, 1986.
Project Implementation
65.       The studies financed by UNDP would be carried out by consultants
selected from short lists; co-lenders would use their own procedures for
the others (para. 67).  The studies are now under way, except for the
master plan of the valley, the financing of which is not yet ready. We
expect to obtain the consultant's recommendations in October/November 1985,
so that an action program could be completed at the beginning of 1986
(para.  61).   The  implementation  of  the  study  recommendations,  the
maintenance works and the current operations would be carried out by SAED,
as they are part of the normal activities which SAED is now adequately
equipped to perform.   Because of financial shortages due to delays in
obtaining committed Government funds, and because funds from foreign
lenders have not yet been made available, SAED has not taken any action yet
regarding the maintenance works.
Project Cost and Financing
a)   Project Cost
66.       The estimated cost of the project, which is exempt of taxes, is
US$15.1 million equivalent, of which about US$2.2 million (15%) in foreign
exchange costs. Costs are based on estimates of August 1985, the date of
negotiations.   Contingencies,  which  provide  for any  impact  on  SAED's
overall operating deficit caused by unforeseen operating expenses in
connection with its current program of construction (para. 77), do not
include any physical contingency but include price contingencies of 10%
annually on local costs, and on foreign costs as follows: 1985, 5%; 1986,
7.5%; 1987, 8%.
b) Financing Plan
67.       The Government has committed itself to staged disbursements to
SAED totalling CFAF 2,418 million to cover the public service costs from
1934/85 through 1986/87, including arrears to suppliers.   A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit would be the disbursement by the
Government of all funds it has committed to SAED prior to December 31,
1985,  which  amount  to  about  CFAF  1,335  million  (US$2.72  million
equivalent).   IDA would  participate  in  financing  consulting  services,
equipment and operating requirements (para. 69).  FAC would participate in
financing the studies and CCCE would make its contribution through a
structural adjustment loan for which disbursements have started as of July
1985. USAID is expected to finance the Bakel subregional master plan for
an estimated CFAF 50 million. UNDP, with IDA as executing agency, would
provide about CFAF 200 million for the valley master plan. Participation
among CCCE/FAC, UNDP, USAID and IDA for the project would produce the
following financing plan:



- 23 -
CFAF million             USS million
Government of Senegal          2,908 a/                  5.93
IDA                            2,385                     4.86
CCCE/FAC                       1,622                     3.31
UNDP                             200                     0.41
USAID                             50                     0.10
Others                           245                     0.50
Total                    7Z410                     15.11
a/   CFAF 1,087 million of counterpart funds that were granted by USAID to
the Government of Senegal during the period 1980-1983 are now
reallocated to SAED and included in Government's contribution.
Foreign lenders' funds would be passed by Government to SAED in grant form.
c) Disbursement Timetable
68.       Disbursements for SAED are based on SAED's actual expenditures in
the 3rd quarter and cash forecasts for the last quarter of 1984/85 and for
the next two years, 1985/86 and 1986/87, and on the assumed availability of
CCCE's funds in July 1985 and of IDA's in January 1986. Arrears would be a
priority for payment (para. 63). IDA's disbursements would be large in the
last two quarters of 1985/86, so as to catch up with those of CCCE.
Disbursements of the two co-lenders would then proceed on a parallel basis,
about pari passu in 1986/87.
d) Disbursement Schedule
69.       Disbursement  of  the  proposed  IDA  credit  is  expected  to  be
completed by mid-1987 under the following categories:



- 24 -
X of total
CFAF million  US$ million   expenditures
1. Services of consultants,
experts, auditors,
specialists
and studies                         100        0.21            100
2. Agric. machinery,
equip. and spare parts              428        0.87             80
3. Operating Costs, including
salaries, materials and
supplies                          1,376        2.80             80
4.  Resettlement grants                 245         0.50            25
5.  Unallocated                         236         0.48
2 L385       4.86
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
70.       Maintenance  works  and  repairs  of  equipment  are  scattered
throughout SAED's supervision area and are not likely to attract foreign
bidders, whatever the source of financing. Works and supply of equipment
for the part financed by the proposed IDA credit 4/:
-    up to a value of CFAF 5 million (US$10,000 equivalent) would be
directly contracted with local suppliers, where items are
proprietary; otherwise, local competitive bidding rules would
apply;
-    with  a  value  between  CFAF 5  million  and  CFAF 50  million
(US$100,000 equivalent), would be subject to local competitive
bidding rules, which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory
to the Bank;
-    above CFAF 50 million, would also be subject to local competitive
bidding and would, to the extent they are financed bv IDA, be
submitted to the Association for prior approval.
Foreign bidders for all contracts would have the opportunity to participate
for the part financed by the IDA credit.
71.        Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
categories (3) (para. 69), for which statements of expenditures (SOE) would
suffice. In the case of SOE procedures, supporting documents would have to
41   The parts financed by CCCE/FAC and USAID (para. 67) would be procured
through their own rules.



- 25 -
be certified by SAED and kept by SAED for verification by the auditors
financed under the project and for review by IDA supervision missions.
72.       In view of SAED's shortage of funds to carry on its current
operations, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$500,000 into an IDA
special account in a local commercial bank. This amount represents IDA's
estimated average quarterly contribution for such current operations over
six quarters  (para. 68).  IDA would replenish the special account upon
receipt of satisfactory evidence that related expenditures were eligible
for financing. Details of the establishment of the special account were
agreed at negotiations, and it was also agreed that SAED would be required
to open a revolving fund account in the same bank to receive the funds
which the Government has committed to SAED for specified dates (para. 67).
A condition of effectiveness of the proposed project is that all conditions
precedent to effectiveness of other co-lenders' loans or grants have been
fulfilled.
Auditing
73.       In view of the non-certification of SAED's accounts for the year
1983/84, a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project would be a
satisfactory assessment by auditors, acceptable by IDA, of SAED's
accounting procedures to determine whether they are set up in accordance
with the auditors' February 1985 recommendations on procedures and internal
controls (paras. 38 and 39).  It was agreed at negotiations that SAED's
auditors would:
-    perform a semi-annual control of all funds allocated  to the
project by the Government and the co-lenders, and submit their
report to IDA within one month after the end of every semester;
-    submit to IDA SAED's audited accounts and their reports within
six months after the end of every financial year.
SAED's Projected Financial Situation
74.       The  amount  of  external  grants  and  Government  financing,  as
calculated in SAED's projected activities (para. 68), is based on a set of
agreed assumptions regarding the level of paddy bought and processed by
SAED, the price of paddy, and the price of services rendered to farmers 5/.
The volume of paddy bought by SAED, which in 1984/85 was below the early
forecasts, is expected to increase in 1985/86 and then be sharply reduced
in 1986/87 and subsequent years. The price of paddy, which was raised from
CFAF 66 to 85/kg for the 1985/86 crop, is calculated to provide farmers
with enough resources to pay for land preparation and water provided by
5/   SAED's actual and forecast  financial statements are  in Annex 4,
assumptions to financial projections are in Annex 5.



- 26 -
SAED, at 100% and 60X of their cost, respectively, and to pay for inputs at
their full price from 1985/86 onwards.
75.       Further to the recovery of the cost of inputs, credit, land
preparation and water, the objective of disengagement is to obtain full
recovery of the cost of SAED's irrigation and drainage activities. It was
agreed at negotiations that by the end of the period covered by the "lettre
de mission", on June 30, 1987, the farmers would be charged the full cost
of operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage, as well as the
replacement cost of the existing pumps. If this objective is attained by
that time, the only costs that would not be recovered from the farmers
would be the costs to be borne by SAED in its modified status (para. 58)
and financed by the Government, mainly those related to the supervision of
the  construction  and  maintenance   of  major  collective   irrigation
installations, SAED's costs in its advisory capacity to village groups, and
construction expenditures, financed by the Government and by outside
lenders.  The question of recovery of those costs from farmers will be
addressed in the third "lettre de mission" (para. 61).
76.       SAED has already started to disengage from agricultural credit
activity, which will be taken over by the National Agricultural Credit Bank
of Senegal (CNCAS) in a form to be detailed in the recommendations of the
agricultural credit study (para. 61, iii). The means and timetable
according to which private business is expected to take over land
preparation from SAED will be detailed in the recommendations of the study
on conditions of establishment of private enterprises in the valley (para.
61, ii) and in SAED's action program for the implementation of the "lettre
de mission"  (para.  61).   It has been further assumed  that  personnel
reduction would proceed steadily, in line with SAED's reduction of
activity, and that the number of employees, which averaged 950 in 1984/85,
would go down to an average of 600 in 1986/87, which means a total number
of about 500 at financial year's  end.  In that connection,  the main
departments concerned by the disengagement process are the equipment
department, the regional divisions and the two rice mills, which would be
considerably reduced or would have disappeared from SAED's accounts by the
end of 1986/87.  It is expected that the change in the nature of SAED's
operation will call for some degree of change in the expertise of its
staff, with more emphasis being given to planning and contracting
capability and to extension, rather than to agricultural and irrigation
works.
77.       SAED's forecasts for construction expenditures in 1985/86 and
1986/87 have been brought down to a more realistic level (Annex 5), and the
appropriateness of planned expenditures in rehabilitating its two rice
mills of Richard Toll and Ross Bethio would have to be carefully examined
by the consultant in charge of the relevant study (para. 61, ii). It was
agreed at negotiations to proceed with maintenance works on the two rice
mills (para. 62) only if discussions between IDA and the borrower
concerning the study recommendations confirm the usefulness of these works,
and to proceed with full rehabilitation of those mills only after agreement
between the Government and IDA on the results and recommendations of the
study.   Because the great volume of suppliers' arrears presently hampers



- 27 -
SAED in its operating activities (para. 35), the implementation of SAED's
construction program, to be financed by external lenders, must be discussed
each year with IDA. as it would have an impact on SAED's financial
situation through increased operating costs. It was agreed at negotiations
that, in the last quarter of each financial year, SAED's program of
construction expenditures for the following two years would be discussed
with IDA, prior to its execution.
Riparian Rights
78.       The proposed Project is limited to the replacement of defective
equipment and to maintenance of existing facilities; it does not entail any
increase in the level of water consumption.  Therefore, the Project will
have no adverse impact on the rights of other riparians.
Justification
79.       By the time of project completion, SAED would become a planning
and supervising agency with an important role to play in the development of
the valley.  It would also be  in charge of supervising the construction of
major collective installations and of maintaining them, and would no longer
be a burden to the Government through economically unhealthy subsidies to
farmers, who would thereafter be exposed to actual operating conditions.
Development of rice production could thus proceed on a sound basis.
Furthermore, the Government is unable to sustain SAED at its present level
of activity; without external help, SAED would have to curtail its
operations drastically, a situation that would be highly detrimental even
to current agricultural activities in the valley, thereby compromising
further development of the irrigation potential.   In addition, following
the rehabilitation of its financial situation under the proposed project,
SAED would be able to carry out an IDA-financed rehabilitation project, to
be followed by "new perimeter" projects, subject to the establishment of an
action program resulting from the recommendations of the disengagement
studies (para. 61). Finally, the proposed project is the first of a series
of projects aimed at strengthening SAED's capacity to provide vital
services to farmers, at cost, and to ensure that irrigable land is
optimally developed when the dams go into operation.
Benefits
80.       Given the present tight financial situation of Senegal and SAED,
the first benefit of the project would be to avoid disruption of
agricultural production in the Senegal river valley and the hardship for
farmers which would result from SAED's bankruptcy. A second benefit would
be to strengthen SAED to enable it to carry out a more comprehensive
rehabilitation project, as well as subsequent irrigation expansion
projects, in a sound financial, economic and social environment, with
farmers in a position to manage their business themselves. A third benefit
would be the reestablishment of market mechanisms in the Senegal valley
whereby goods and services would be exchanged on an economic basis:
farmers would pay for inputs at their actual cost and would be able to sell
their products at remunerative farmgate prices. The Government would also



- 28 -
be led to devise a proper balance of rice prices in relation to production,
import and consumption, by keeping the production price at a level
sufficient to stimulate or maintain production, and by raising the retail
price in proportion to the production price to avoid draining its finances.
It is not possible to quantify these benefits.
Risks
81.       Project risks would be in the form of benefits not realized.
Their realization depends on the way (speed, priorities, thoroughness) in
which recommendations of the disengagement studies would be implemented.
For example, private business might be reluctant or slow to take over
SAED's activities, or Government's commitment to agricultural reforms could
change. Any of these occurrences would affect or possibly jeopardize the
project's implementation; IDA would endeavor to contain their adverse
effects through close monitoring of project implementation, discussions and
follow-up on the recommendations of the studies, and audit controls. The
prospect   of  IDA  participation  in  subsequent   irrigation  projects,
conditional on the satisfactory implementation of the proposed project,
would be an added inducement to Government and SAED to implement the
project properly. However, if SAED's disengagement is slower than forecast
and SAED's continuing role in production-related activities is considered
detrimental  to  the  implementation  of  the  follow-on  project,  such
implementation would be delayed.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Robert Picciotto
Attachments
October 4, 1985
Washington, D. C.



- 29 -                                       Annex 1
T A 4  L 1   34                                Fage  1 of  7
nuuaa                  - locAL IWTCATORl DATA *fl
SF53101 0109  1NRIGcUm   A Mh) Ia
mm?                      (NORY  ncgT RflEHATEI ib
NowT             MIBLE INCONK           NIaoLE TNM
1m4L       loyal  EUTINa?ELt      AFRICA S. OF MUR       N. AFRICA A MID AT
mAN cumm we. no
TOTAL                              196.2      196.2       196.2
ACRICULTUAL                        ".6        104.J       109.3
Cw FM  CI  (go)                         ..         ..        440.0             1063.8                   1131.9
10010 COSMTOM   ip
(zaLOCBM  OF OIL  qUIVALET         331.0      Ob0.0       206.0             331.1                    b23.9
FOnAC ANDTrL  IrsCo
POPULATION,ID-TAR (T(UOnmS)    3496.0        4415.0      6211.0
URUN FFULAION (E 0 TOTAL           23.0       30.0        34.4              32.0                     49.0
POPULATION PROJUCTIONS
POPULATItON IN  E  2000 (HILL)                           10.1
STATIOART POPULATION  MILL)                              30.0
POPULATION MONETUM                                        1.e
POULAITION 0,NEITC
M  SQ. RHI.                       17.6       22.5        31.4              65.1                      17.6
Rn SQ. im. *a1R. LAND             35.1       62.2        35.2              1:4.6                    470.1
POU.ATIGI ACE ST*RUURE (2I
0-14 tIS                         42.1       43.9        44.4              45.6                      43.5
i5-64 TRS                        54.2        53.1        52.6              S1.5                     53.0
65 AND AOVE                        3.0        2.6         2.8               2.7                       3.3
POPULATION GROVIN RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              2.8        2.3         2.6               2.9                       2.8
URBAN                              3.4        5.0         3.7               3.1                       4.4
CON BIRTH RATE (PER T70OU3)        47.5        417         46.1              47.0                     40.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE CPnR 70OUS)       24.4        21.9        18.5              15.0                      11.5
06Ss ROOUCTnON RATE                 3.1         3.1         3.2               3.2                      2.6
PAIILT PLANNING
ACC0PT70S. ANNUAL I1US)            ..
USERS C  P MAo RD W )              ..         ..          4.0  c            6.4                      21.4
INlDE or roo rROD. PUR CAPITA
( 19b9-71-100)                     115.0       81.0       64.0               82.9                     95.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OP
CALOS  tS (2 OF RZQUIRUNCTS)     99.0        93.0        99.0              98.5                     118.Z
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAT)         67.0        12.0        70.0              55.4                     77.8
OP WHICM A42KAL AND PULSE        20.0       19.0        19.0 /d           16.5                      17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        45.9        38.1        28.0              16.6                      12.8
LIrE EXPEC. AT BIRTH (TEAS)        39.4        42.6        45.5              52.0                     57.8
NPAM'T mutT. RATE (PER THOU)      178.5       166.0      I1O.o              108.8                     96.0
ACCSS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                              ..         ..         42.0 /a           42.4                     67.2
UUN                                ..         ..         77.0 7;%          67.5                     93.4
RURAL                                   O. 25.0                            35.8                     45.8
ACCESS rO EJIUEA DISPOSAL
(t OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..         33.0 /a           28.9                     45.9
URANI                             ..          ..        too'.o 7           57.7                     t3.0
RURAL                                                     2.0 7;           20.7                     28.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        24990.0    16790.0    13780.0 Ic          11791.7                   4331.0
POP. PER NURSIN PERSON          3150.0 1f   1950.0      1390.0 7          2459.8                   1845.0
PO. PER NOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            840.0      620.0       900.0 Id          981.1                    bZ1.8
URBAN                           460.0       450.0       s60.0 7i          366.8                    545.0
RURAL                           1990.0  1250.0         12U0.o 7;         4371.9                   2511.3
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        22.2        29.2 Id           27.2                     25.7
-Si-
AVEIRCE SIZE OP HOUSEHLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                                         7.6
RURAL                                         6.07        .
AVERSE NO. oF PEBSONS/RObI
TOTAL                              1.5 /i     .
mN                                 ..         ..          .                  ..
RURAL
rutDTAcE Of DWEILLINS WIT ELECT.
TOTAL
UU                                 ..         ...
RURA                                 .L



- 30 -
Annex 1
T AB1*L C  14                                 Page  2  of  7
SENCC4L         _      - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHUT
SENEGAL                              REVERECE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVUENS) a
HOST                     (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECECN           HIDDLE INCOS            MIDDLE INCO
19601-!    197u/-b gSTjLjjTL/b    AFRICA S. o0 SAHARA    N. AFRICA A  ID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                   27.0        36.0        48.0              93.7                      89.8
'441                   36.0        47.0        38.0              100.0                    103.7
FrLE                  17.0        30.0        36.0              63.2                      73.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   3.0         9.0        12.0               17.3                     42.9
HALC                    4.0        13.0        16.0               23.0                     50.9
FINALE                  2.0         3.0         8.0               14.8                     34.6
VOCATIONaL (I or sEcoNDaRY)         23.1         9.2        10.4               5.9                      10.0
UPIL-TEACNER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0 La     65.0        43.0              41.t                      29.7
SECONDARY                         34.0        34.0        21.0              25.5                      16.6
acnUoWfon
PASSENGU CARS/THOUSAND POP           5.7         8.7          .               20.6                      17.6
RuDnO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND 'OP        33.7        60.7        61.3             107.6                     375.9
TV RZCEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            ..          0.3         0.8              20.8                      3l.Z
NEWSsPAPR (DAILY GENuE
INTEREST) CIRCUILATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             3.7         4.5         7.3              16.4                      37.2
cNMA ANNuAL ArTCeDAxCE/CAPITA        ..          ..         0.7 fl             0.4                       2.4
LABn ro
TOTAL LABOR FORCE Cr10us)         1619.0      L925.0      2509.0
UALE  (PERCET)                    39.5        39.0        37.9              36.2                      11.0
AGRICLTUE (PERCENT)               84.0        60.0        76.9 /a           54.5                      42.4
INDUSMT  (PERCENT)                 5.0         7.0       IO.0 7W            18.3                      27.9
PAUTICIPATICO RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             46.3        43.6        40.4               36.8                     26.2
NALE                              56.3        53.7        50.7               47.1                     46.2
FVKALE                            36.4        33.7        30.6               27.2                      5.8
WIOIC DEPENDECCY RATIO               1.0         L.1         1.2                1.3                      1.J
mm  DlISIRIDTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED by
HIGEcST 32 OF HOUSEHOLDS          36.8 /k
HlIZGST 20S OF HOUSEHLDS          62.5 7N
LOESTS 20S OF HoUSEHOLDS           3.2 T..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEtHOLDS          9.6 7Tk
WM  TAMET -
ESTIMATED ABSOLEs  POVCETY INCOSZ
LEMvL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR                                 ..          ..         ..               590.7                     226.3
RUALU                                                     62.0 /c          275.3                     134.0
ESTIMlATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        194.0 /c          545.6                     431.5
BURAL                              ..          ..         ..               201.1                     326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELS ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOHE LEVEL (C)
UBAN                               ..
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..                 ..                       29.0
NOT AVAILlE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T Z S
/a  The group averegee for each IndLcator are populaclon-_lcbted aritbeetic mane. Coverage of countriem
among the Indicators depends on availability ot data and is not uniform.
/b  Unlear otherwise noted. 'Date for 1960" refer to any ymor between 1959 and 1961; 'Daea for 1970' between
1969 end 1971; and data for "flot Recent Eatleet' between 1981 and 1963.
/c  1973; /d 1977; la 1980; If 1963; jg 1962; Ih 1973; /1 1955; fl 1976; /k Population.
JUIN, 1985



- 31-                                                 Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
DEFITmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nornse Alhough she deawaue drawn rm soun  nerally juded the most authontativeand relihle. it should also be noted that they may not be mntemnuolly
comparble beause of the hc of stdanddimbd delfnitins and coxpau Eed by difaent coumtnes in collecung ihe daa The data are, nonethek  uweWd so
describe orders of magnitude, induiate trends, and characterne crtuin major diffeens between countnr.
The refernce groups are (1) the .nme countqry grup of he subjet country and (2) a country group wish somewht higher averr income shna the country
group or the subjet country (cwept for "High bIcome Oil Ezpoflrs group where Middle Incowme North Afrca and Middl Easai s chosn because ostronger
soclturt affinities). In the reference grup da the awvag  ate population weighted arithmeic meuns for each indientor and shown only wen majority
ofthe countne in a group h data for thst indicuor. Since the covemae ofdountine among the indicaorf depends on the avulabiity ofdada and  not unifonrn
caution muss beexercised in miatingavergsof one indiator  nother. Thse averages are only uwsful in companng the value of one indicatorat a timeasmong
the country snd refierene groups. 
AREA (thousand sq.kmt                                             Crude Birth Rate (per tho-ssadj-Number of live births in the year
7Tore-Total surfaee area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crd Demth Rate (per the-lsaed-Number of deaths in the year
Airieafstw-Estimate or agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently ror crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodution Rate--Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experier-es
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (US-S' GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calcu'l  . by same conversion method as World      Family Pna4ng-Acceptors .4Annal (thotandr)-Annual num-
Bask Atlas( (981-83 basis); 1983 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Fandly Plaaia-Users (percent of married aimeme-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricityl in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-beanng age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                  groups.
Total Poplation, Mid- Year (thoasands-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Indx of Food Production Per Capita (1969-71 l- 10N)-lndex of per
Urba  Popuatin (percent of toral)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population, different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include pnmary commodities (e-g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Poputi  proeions                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in wear 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national averagc producer price weights; 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               P., Capita Supply of Caloies (percenr ef eaire-setsD-Comput-
Stationary population-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while agc-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports lcss cxports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
Inet reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distnbution. Requirenents were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
sizc was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distnbution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monienrrun-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has becn  per capita net suppiv of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of she ultimate stationary population to che population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  shouid be animal protein. These standards-are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
ftpl.dion Desty                                                  average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capita Protein Supply &aom Aina and Prke-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as abovc for agricultural  of food denved from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data
Populaio  Age Structue (percenti-children (0-14 years). work-    Chid fages 1-4i Deart Rate per thousaadJ-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a gwven year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent)-tatal---Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
PopuAtion Growth Rae (perceur)_-aran-Annual growth rates          Life Expectancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would livc if prcvailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 32-                                              Annex  1
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to stay the sane throughout its life.  Ppl-teacher Ratio - primay. ard secondary-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                     roiled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
w  Morfta   Re (per dsnd)-N umber of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thouand live births in a given
year; 1960.1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPllON
Acam  t Si* WRr (pw    df    Nd)-                      d      Pauseaar Cus (par uhaumaad p_opiition)-Passenger cars com-
Nuw-Number ofpeope (totial urban, asd runl) with ranoable     prise motor cars seating ls than eight persons; excludes amubul-
m    to .fe water supply (mcludes trated surface wat.as or    ances hearses and militay vehides.
untted but uncontaminated woter such a that from protected    Xb  Recwm (r    s ppe,            nAll typ  Or mevm
mboilk spmp and .tuy w ) as per8ntas of tbi rsw-              for radio broadcasu to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urba area a pubic fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed rccivers in countries and in years when
loected not more than 200 meters from a houwe may be cond     registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable am   of that houw. In rurd aras    not be comparable since most countries abolshed licensing.
reaonable accem would imply that the houswife or mcmbers of the
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Reciva (per thousand populat)-TV receivers for broadct
in fetcWng the family's water neods                           to general public per thousand population; excludes unlcnsed TV
the kmibrse   t D_*1                               ( 4!(~  needs  receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Acces to Ezwert Diurna (percauta of papalationI -total. uran  in det
Nd rurl-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) srved by
excreta disposl as pe ntages of their respective populations.  New5P!PW Cweaaoa (G e    pear thosnd pepuifha)-Shows the ave.-
Excreta dispoal may include the coliection and disposal. with or  age circulation of daily general interest newspaper,' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  peiodical publicatior devoted primarily to recording general news
borne systems or the uwe of pit prvies and similar installations.  It is consdered to be -daily" if it appars at least four times a week.
Ppdatou per ?hysida_P-lpulation divided by number of prac-    Cinemas Annul AnendAne per Caia per Ye,-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levl.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PIa__a. per Nursi Peasan-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurse.
prctical nurss and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR WRCE
-_uu p.r Oesptal &d-tot_ - urban, and aurao-Npulation       rTot Laord Foce (thmJi-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urba,  and rural) dvided by their respectve number of  duding armed rowces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and privau. geneal and specAlS-d  students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not compamble 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
permanendy staffed by at east one physician Establishments prov-  Feak (percar)-Feinale labor forc as percentage of totl labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
howve include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agrnare (perceut)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a niedical assistant, rurse. midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
wiiich offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
or medical facilities.                                       Inds&ry (percenr)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Ad.dsio   r    0wspia Red-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Artic6pat&us Roe (percet)-,otala mak. andfnwk-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
A.4ge .e of Hoasekld (persons per hausahold)-toea.  m.        as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
ahdusal-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trnd. A few estimates are from national sources.
A.i  Number of Perss par Room-total, urba, and arl-           Economic Dependency Rario-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBtiTION
Penemta  of Diedrus wth Eleerrciy-toral, urb. n   d rural-    Pi ernae of Total Dfiposabe Incowe (bth in csh and kind)-
Conventional dwellinp with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adj ed Enroinuent Rajg                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
AFimwy scho  - totaL male and fknde-Gross tamak- a           levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  Estimsted Absoe Poverty 1n   Le  (USI perc i-
spctive primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that incomc levd
consider prmary school age to be 6-11 years. others do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices mn the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esimted Rele Pobverty Income Level (USS per cop ta)-arban
educaion, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent sinoe sonme  and rura-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-scha.'ol  a-erage per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age-                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secoday school - toadl, ma  audferale-Computed as abovre     living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at last four years of approved pTi-  Eimted t bpputo BeLw Absolte Pboerty lcme Lepd (pe'-
mary instruction; provides genraL vocational, or teacher training  ceit)-urIarr and ruavl- Percent of population (urban and rural
insuct    for pupils usuay of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are absolute poor.-
ence couns are generaly exduded.
Vocioeal Frogmeni (permnt of scondary)-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



SENE6AL: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6212 (mid-1993. thous)
61NP per capita: 440 US' (19831
Amount                        Annual growth reies (1) at constant prices
(hill  US$  at         ------- ---------- ------------------- --------------
current prices)
1990          1978     1979      19380     1981      1982     1983      1984                (595     Isse
__  _ _ _  __ _  _ _  __ _ __----__    _ _ _ _ -_--------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---   -------   ------------ --- --- -- --- --- -- ---_______________
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Oonestic Product              29370    -6.3       9.6      -3.3      -9.9      14.4      4.2      -4.1                5.2       3.8
Agriculture                        SE9    -23.7      27.3    -19.3      -5.6      24.?       4.9    -29.5                19.3       3.2
Industry                          739      -9.e      11.e      -2.9      5.7      14.5       4.7      8.1                 3.5      5.0
Other                             (663      4.0       2.4       3.5     -1.9      (0.6       3.7       9.4                4.5       3.5
Consumption                         2984      4.7       0.5       2.9       3.3      6.5       4.8      -1.3               1l0        3.5
Gross Investment                     460     -4.9      12.9    -22.3        1.1      6.5       3.1      -7.9               23.4       3.8
Export. of 6NFS                      953    -30.4      12.1    -15.7        1.3     28.3       2.1      -3.1                8.6       S.O
Imports of 6NFS                     1327     -6.5      -5.8      -7.8     11.1      -2.4       3.7      -2.9                3.1       3.3
6ross Ooeostic Saving              -13.7    -94.1    357.9    -92.8   -52.9                 -23.4    -55.4               165.0      13.9
-_ -------------------_  -------------------  -----------    --------- --     -----------__------ -------------------- --------------------
PRICES                                                                                                                                                                        W
6OP Oeflator((979-1106                       93       lee       (12      (29       (32       (42       (59                176       264
Exchange rate (US9- 1                       226       213       211      272       329       381      429                 472
-- -- - -- -- - --_- - -- -- - -- -- - -- --------- .------ _--------_-------_-----._ _ _ _ _ _-----------------------------------------------
Share of GOP at Market Priceastl                          Average Annual Increase (I)
(at current priews)                               lat constant prices)
1970     (975      IUll      1985     1999            1970-75   1975-80  1980-85  1905-90
Gross Domestic Product                      10(.0   l(e.9    (99.9    (99.9    (99.9                     1.9      0.6       3.9       4.1
Agoriculture                               24.1      30.2      19.1     18.5      19.1                9.8      -3.9       2.8      3.9
Industry                                   21.5     24.0      24.9      26.9     29.9                 3.2       2.2      5.9       5.5
Other                                      54.4      45.9      56.9     54.7      53.0                9.8       1.9       3.5      3.5
Consumption                                  89.9      97.7     (99.5     93.6      89.5                 1.8      2.9       2.8       3.5
Groa  Investment                            15.7      17.9      t6.5     16.9      16.3                3.0      -2.4       4.7       3.8
Exports of GNFS                              27.4      36.4      28.7     33.2      35.5                 1.0     -4.9       5.4       4.9
Imports of GNFS                              32.9      41.9      44.7     43.7      41.3                1.4      -9.2       2.6      3.3
PUILIC FINANCE                              FY 79    FY 79    FY 80   FY 91    FY 92    FY 93    FY 94    FY 85
____________----                            -----     --  -              -----     -----    -______--_____
(billions of CFA francel
Current Revenue                              97.1    122.6    139.2    125.5    (51.9    175.7    (99.4    210.6
Current Expenditure                          94.1    105.5    144.9    151.3    165.4    (96.6    295.4    220.4                                                       m  m
Currant Balance                               3.0      17.1      -5.7    -25.8    -13.5    -(9.9    -16.9    -10.4
Capital Expenditure  */                        9.5     12.8      13.2    21.1        6.9       7.9      18.9      9.1                                                     _
Surplus or Deficit (-l                       -6.5       5.1    -(9.9    -46.9    -20.4    -19.8    -26.0    -(9.4                                                      0
a/ Central Government only. excludes paraetetels.



SENEGAL: EXTERNAL TRADE
Populatlon: 6282 (nad-1993, thous?
GNP per capita: 440 US$ 11983)
Arount                         Annual growth rates (X) at constant prices
(mil) US$ at at-------------_________._________
current prices)
ISOS          1978l     1979      Igoe      1991      1992      1993     1994                1985      iege
EXTERNAL IRADE
Merchandine export                   401    -48.1       24.1     -24.3       7.2      26.4       9.8      -7.7                 9.9      s.8
primary                            263    -51.1       25.1    -29.1       -9.4      73.8       9.5    -22.7                 B.6       S.3
Petroleum                           90      42.0    -37.0    -16.1        92.5    -55.0       15.4      0.g                 4.1       3.5
Others                             128    -75.D    167.4    -14.6          1.4       5.5       3.4     46.7                14.8       S.%
Merchandise Imports                  973    -12.4       -5.2    -13.9       17.3      -I.o       2.9      -4.9                 2.3      3.8
Food and Beverages                 21"      12.6      1C.4    -27.0       46.2    -10.9       -.2       -6.4              -11.3       2.5
Petroleum                          276      19.8      -3.0       7.6      19.3    -14.0        5.5    -16.2                28.6      -1.3
Machinery & E4uipment              ISO    -24.7       -7.5    -18.5      -14.0       9.9       6.9       1.4                0.0       6.4
Others                             329    -23.1      -15.2    -16.0       15.7       8.2       1.6      -0.7                2.6       3.8
Prices
Export Price Index                            94.2    1080.    115.7       1.,8.8    143.4    152.9    178.5                193.4    297.2                                      41
Import Price Index                            88.7    I88.'    124.2    147.6    159.9    171.7    185.9                    201.2    297.1                                      1
Terns of Trade Index                         186.2   l18.8        93.2      94.9      09.7     89.1      95.5                96.1     100.0
Compoatiion of MerchendLse IradellJ                        Average Annual Increase (IS
(at current prices)                                    (at constant prices)
1975     1988      1985      1990                       1975-80   19808-5  1985-90
larchandise export                           180.0    180.0    180.0    l88.8                             -5.4      8.4       6.8
pgrmary                                     70.5      55.2      57.2      54.8                         -7.9       7.7       5.3
Petroleum                                    7.0      10.7       9.2       9.1                          7.3       1.8       3.5
Others                                      22.5      26.1      33.6      36.1                         -1.8      13.2       5.0
Marchandise lmports                          180.8    180.8    180.0    108.8                             -8.3       2.9      3.8
Food and Severages                          23.2      21.5      19.7      17.1                          4.1       1.7       2.5
Petroleum                                   12.0      28.4      21.5      26.5                           9.4      5.7      -1.3
Mechinary & Equipment                       18.4      16.2      14.7      14.9                         -3.1       8.5       6.4
Others                                      46.4      33.9      37.1      41.5                          -5.8      5.3       3.8
Share of Trade with                         Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with oil
Industrial Countries (S)                  Developing Countriesll)              Exporting Oeveloping Counlriesta)                           OF 0
Direction of Trade a/                1975     I980      19o1                1975      1980      1911                1975      198     te9l                                 a' K
Exports                             65.4      50.4      47.S                20.0      35.6      36.3                          2.5       2.6                                 0
lIports                             67.1      68.6      58.4                11.5      18.9      15.8                4.1      18.1      12.9
a/ Exports, f.a.bi imports, c.l.f. (Source: IMFI



SENFnAL - BAI.ANCE OF PAYMENTS ,ENTERNWL CAPITAL  MO DBr
I1Milliings bf U9 * at current prices
Ar tual                                                        Projuctud
Indicator                                        -- -- ------ - ---------------------- - ---------------------                              --------------------
197B       1979        1900        19'1        1902         1903      190                 1995        1990
BALANCE or PAYAtrNT1;
Lnpnrts  (f qnnd% t NrS                            Al17        H71         953        915         B29         777        79S                    935        1S35
of whichaMvrchandiself.n.b)                       4n2         '47        4S    5I12              515        510         525                    f25        1252
liaports of gQondr. ?. IFS                       INn.!2       115f)      1327        1365        1194       1143        1105                   1221J       21533
of whirhloMerLhIndielf5.n.B)                      !,45        B52        971        10 9         996         847        005                     194       157I
Not fartnr inci,mn                                 -17          79        -100          94        -DB        -105       -116                    -131       -156
NPt tran%fers                                       29           2           0          "1         36'         29          29                     31          46
rf.rrunt AL:cnunt Bal .nce                        -3914       -f56       -574        613        -423        -442       -394                   -393        -409
Private direct tn,. rstint                          43          71          96          7"1        5S          47         52                      56          76
Ofi cial lIrant Aid                                 93          oh         120         i,,        107         113         115                   lII         157
Not MLT IoAn%(0DRSH'                                If B       147         IS5         17n        283         304        261                     271        2h2
Dlshitor nment                                   2:'b        222        ''72        -2h         293        322         301                    393         '93
Rapayrmrnt 5                                      hb          75         It?         4B          tO         IB          40                    122         191
Othrr r iaiAl  a n                                   l         -'!B         96          70       -t36        -103       -100                   -109         -25
1lrr.roP..pr ii reg',w  vv                          72          rK         11         3 IfI,      114          of         74                      57           2
Ni't For. ojn aw.rttonr I. Imr)                    171        -29r         41'%      -49'.       -526       -522        -475
a InriudL% erroPr. 46,61 aminsinns
rxrrEI?NA1 fVP1AA. AND DEnI
OrFFI'r.L (1RI5NT'i                             9z.b        72.4      119.7       122.2       106.5      112.!       114.3                  117.5       157.3
c1vUrC;V1NAI LnAI. rln,i  S             f        61.'   .5              33.3      153.11  107.7          165.2       158.0                  259.9       :'9%.4
PAL                                          12.0        IIt 5       12.5       35.1        32.9        '6.9       47.9                   SS.9        BO.B
nPEc                                         .". D        'S.        Bj.9       55.6        11.6        49.7       62.2                   135.9       9 .4
IDVA                                          9.7        Ih..        12.1       47.5        21.0       20.n        21.2                   39.0        52.9
OTlER                                         ..J.5      21.1        37.9        15.4       42.3        5S.7       26.7                   26.1        56.4
Nn,Cr9t1tW3I0INnL LInAN                        169. F1     559.      2znn.B a        .       1 5.I       157.1       142.1                  133.1       109.9
nil rrAiai rlrnrT CPEDITi                   -6. 7       411.5       7A.I         '' .     136.5       92.1        44.1                    31).7      7A.S
111 1!                                        *..,,      11.11       I (I.       1. I        4.8       55.9   -   B.9                      6.'         1.1
IfTfIl, miIl rILFLrFRAL                        (a.b       9.0        13.6        I;.'        9.o        ;2.2        17.0                   16.1        10. I
rpPIVASr                                    1'q.9      156.41       I116. h      t. 1       34.8        21.0       72.P                    5,1.0      _1.9
rXT'FNAL DEPT                                   1-0M.:,    1357.?      Iel.0o    17100.6      21525S    2179.9    2603.0                     2754.4      4191.7
DEr4T OLT-41. ' 119OLHi9r.ISQ)                   /        791.1       B95.2      9989.7     1236.5      1499.1      1799.0                 2ur29.7    2992.2
orr i r.I..                                  "1.4       4?9-A t      M.6       710.2       967.2    12B5.11    1406.7                   1741.1    211.:.9
PRIVATEi                                     _ S.B                  296.6      27q. 5      269.3      212.3       272.3                  299.6       1 D.3
UNDfqIRURP1.n DFBIr                           S'7.5       5h6. 6      695.9       710.9      91t..0      690.7      944.0                   724.7      1199.5
DE141 s;n:lICEL
TIIiII  rrPviicr PAVYFN1S 1/                   9h.1      117.6       172.2       99.1        46.9        57.3        92.6                2;20.6       299.5
INIEiF-3T                                     1.. 1      41.0      54.9        41.0       77.3        39.2        52.9                   99.2       1629.4         lB
FAV11NI nAS X l: EXPanTrr                       14.n        13.5       20.2       I.9         S.7         7.4        11.6                   27.6       0IAX
AVEPAliF IHRiRE!3T RAIE ON NEW LOANS                                                                         4.7         4.7                    4.9         6.1          -J
AVF RAHF. i MAI.tl rVy OF NEW LUANI YVNMS)        12.0        2O. 5      21.4        19.6        22.n       24.0        22.3                   20.2        17.9          0
AVERAff  GIIACI PFRIIID(YEARD)                                 15.7       6.2         5.'.        6.0        6.3         6.2                    5.h         5.5 IF
AVFRA4CW ORnNT ELEM1EN111                                                                                   :132.0      20.1                   23.9        24.0
I. Emcluuing uIr repurchasso,



-36 -                                A      2
jTry=f 2
SOM  OF WXMD BANK (PERATICIN IN SW.L
A. Statmnt of Bank Ioan arid MA Credits (as of Marci 31, 1985) *
Loan/t  (Les  r   latLx)
Number       Y       Borrower    Prpose                             Ba         ID 2/ Undisbursed 2/
TLlve Loans I/ ad ninetee Credits fully aisbrsed                   66.33     115.74
530-SE       1975   Senegtl Iducntii n                                        15.0        0.35
1405-T-SE    1977   sal              r Fishing Part                 6.0                   0.42
1412-T-SE    1977   S     a      Petite CZte TouriL                 8.0                   1.20
14L1-E       1977   SengaAl      Petite (ste Tourism                5.6                   0.98
1518-SE      1978  RlS           Raibys     I                      11.0                   1.02
775-SE       1978   Se1          Dbi:-La w Irrigatim                         20.0         1.73
S-23-SE      1979   senegal      Water Supply Ekg. & T.A.                     2.5         0.24
908-SE       1979                 a wucatIci                                  22.0        9.24
991-SE       1980   Senegal         n RralOpesti                              11.0        5.85
993-SE       1980   SurthFa                                                   28.0        2.25
18105SE      1980   s            FourFa                            10.0                  10.00
S-26-SE      1980   S            Power b      &                                3.3        0.95
1061-SE      1980   SeneRal      1A.                                          5.3         1.82
1973-SE      1981    gQT          ln     t Pr                       6.5                   4.49
1136-SE      1981   SeP1l        irwet  nt PrnuwtAc                           2.5         1.27
2025-SE      1981   SEFICS       Rail Transp                       19.3                   6.49
1103-SE      1981   s            Forestry                                     9.3         6.02
1176-SE      1982   SAal         Arfiltnl Research                            19.5       13.28
1310-SE      1983   S     l      Rutal 1ealth                                 15.0       11.67
1323-SE      1983   S g          Petrolan Exploratlox                         9.5         5.61
1360-SE      1983   Senegal      Phos. Ind. Dev. Eg.                          7.7         6.85
1398-SE      1983   S            Second T.A.      lic                        11.0         8.72
1406-SE      1983   Seaegl       E.S. Rural Dev.                              16.1       14.31
1448-SE      1984   S            Fifth Hi*Uy                                  10.75       7.44
SF-15-SE     1984                                                             10.75       8.60
1458-SE      1984   Se1.ga       T.A. for Ura ?pz. & Rehab.                   3.05        2.36
SF-13-SE     1984                                                             2.95        2.78
1459-SE      1984   Seneaal      Dakar Camtainer Port                         2.65        2.58
SF-14-SE     1984                                                             4.85        4.66
1554-SE      1985   Senegal      Eleven Centers Water Supply 3/              24.00       24.00
Total                                                     132.73    372.44       167.18
of whch repaid                                           21.85       3.98
Total now oustaxdirg                                      110.88    368.46
m=t sold                           3-47    08
of 4hch has bem repaid           3.24   0.82              0.19       0.06
Total now held by Bar and M& 4/                           110.69    368.40
Total u edisbused                                          48.60     118.58      167.18
I/ A lmn of j$3.5 mifllim  for agricultul credit (584-S  mgde in 1969 ms cancelld ao
Mar 25, 1971.
2B  Im    with Credit 1061-E, credits hae been denhdnated in Special Dradnw  Rih, (S. The
dolar :a mts in these coliws reprsent the doll  eqivle   at the            a     t  e tams
for the IDA amrxts and the U5$ equivalets as of  a   31, 185, for the udisbursed a ts    (1
SDR - US$.999005).
31 Not yet effective.
| Prir to ecage adjustnuts.
*  The sMtus of the projects Isted in Part A Is descrMied in a sepate report c all BaikfDA
finmxla projects  eL ait u,  hich is updated tice yearly and cicuated to the Thecutive
Directors ca April 30 aid October 31.



- 37-                               A         2 or 2
B. Statemnt of ID Invesumts (as of March  30, 1985)
Amu~mt (U$ Milflion)
Fiscal Year      Obl4                      Type of Business        Lan       invesltm          Total
1967          SociftA Industrielle      Fertilizer Plnt         2.45         1.01            3.46
d'ftraIs du S&gal
1972)
1973)         BUD S&ftal, S.&           Vegetable bport          -           0.84            0.84
1974          S0OFSET!                  Developnt                -           0.24            0.24
Finance CcayW
1980          le  d'tHabitat            Money anr  Capital       -           0.47            0.47
du Si;n*pl, S.A.          KMi_
1980          Socikti 16telire          Twurian                 3.00          -              3.00
du Barabois, S.A.
1982          IClMtre Chim              Fertilizer             25.00          -             25.00
du Srmp1
Total Gross CimuLtmnts                           30.45         2.56           33.01
Less Cnce3latis. Ternans,
PRpents, Salesan Losses                           2.62         1.05            3.67
Total Cacmdtmts nowheld by IEC                   27.83          1.51          29.34
Uixll*hred sBalance                              24.00         0.00           24.00



-38 -                      Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
SENEGAL
IRRIGATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of key elements
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: one year
(b) Project prepared by: SAED with assistance from French aid and
Bank staff
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:    April 1985
(d)  Completion of negotiations:         August 12, 1985
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:      February 28, 1986
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special conditions
Ca) A condition of disbursement of the proposed project would be
that, not later than March 31, 1986, there be no arrears older
than six months in SAED's accounts (para. 63).
(b) Conditions of disbursement of the Resettlement component would be
the deposit by the Government of US$500,000 equivalent and
execution of the SOFISEDIT subsidiary loan agreement (para. 64).
(c) Conditions of effectiveness would be that (i) the Government has
disbursed all funds committed to SAED prior to December 31, 1985
(para. 67); (ii) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
other co-lenders' loans or grants have been fulfilled (para. 72);
and  (iii)   SAED's  auditors would  examine whether  accounting
procedures and internal controls, as described in their report of
February 1985. have been satisfactorily incorporated into SAED's
accounting system (para. 73).
(d) SAED would prepare an action program acceptable to IDA. on the
steps to be taken for its disengagement before January 31, 1986
and prepare a third "lettre de mission" defining its future
objectives and contractual relationship with the Government prior
to the end of the current one (para. 61).
(e)  A special account of US$500,000 would be set up in a commercial
bank for IDA's initial deposit and revolving fund, and SAED would
be required to open an account in the same bank to receive the
funds which the Government has committed to SAED (para. 72).



- 39 -                     Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
(f)  SAED's  auditors would  conduct  a  semi-annual  control  of  all
expenses related to  the project  during  the duration  of  the
project (para. 73), and SAED would present to IDA its audited
accounts and auditors' report relative to any financial year not
later than six months after the end of the financial year (para.
73).
(g) The farmers engaged into irrigated agricultural production in the
Senegal river valley would be charged the full cost of operation
and maintenance of irrigation and drainage, and contribute to
the replacement cost of the existing pumps, as from June 30, 1987
(para. 75).
(h) Maintenance works for SAED's rice mills would be executed only if
they conform to the recommendations of the study on SAED's
disengagement  from  rice  milling.   The  decision  of  a  full
rehabilitation of same rice mills would be dependent on the study
recommendations (para. 77).
gi) Before the end of each financial year SAED would submit to IDA
for discussion its program of construction for the following two
years Cpara. 77).



SAID
INCOME STATeIlQNT                                                                                   CASE FLOP STAWtT   -
1982/83                                                                                               1982/83
(CFAT millions)                                                                                       (CFAF millions)
elVJeADTlR                                             INCOI
UTILIZATION                                             SOURCUS
FuzCCIee ot goods                    1155.4    Sales ni goods                     4134.1
Technical assistance
furebase of paddy                    415.6    Provision of services               332.1
services             677.8
Consumption of materials                       Sales of rica                       595.i                 invest. ineorp.       2961         973.9    Subsidies
and supplies.         1,229.3
152.7                                                                         Operating risult    3,50.77                     tech, assistance       9713.9
Own Cons. Expend..    304.4                   Miacell. Income:                                                                                        operations            t,964.2
prod. from stock        76.5   IIS.1                                            126B.                 depreciation      - 1.5413.     1,964.2      equipment             2.935.14   5,873.5
Transport, services consumed        153.1                                                              Investmnts                         3,981.7
Otber services          960.3                                                                          Other capitalisations                244.7    Loans
techo. assistance - 677.8         282.5                                                                                                             Covern_nt               960.0
Others                  111.1     9741.
Miscall, charges and losses
141.0                                                                         Increase In working capitel                   Charges on working capital
financial exs          21.6
fin. receipts    -  306.5   -  143.9                                                                   stocks                803.9                  suppLiers                78.8
,uutoetrs             568.4                  cash                 3,005.5
Personnel expenses                 1,044.0                                                               Covernment          1.430.8    2,503.1        others                  35.7   3,120.0
T"es end dutIes                       92.1
TOTAL       MU;.                              TOTAL       249.j
Depreciation charge                1,543 i    Operating loss                     3,501.7
TOTAL       4TOTAL                                        d9kh
BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30 1983
(CFAF millions)
ASSETS                                      LIABILITIES
Fixed Assets in service                        Not situation
20,338.1               Capital         2,500
Depreciation    -    7,1177.0   13,161.1  Reserves  -           235.2          2,264.8
Fired assces in progress             1,228.8  Equtpment subsidies               14,065.4
Other capitalisations                   316.0  Long- and sedium-term loans    1,608.1
Circulating assets                   2,081.0  Provision/losses and charges   1,391.7
Liquid and avallable assets                    Short-term creditors
custoemers               699,6                 suppLiers    1,478.5
Government             2,229.4                 miscellaneous  537.6            2 0161X
banks                    708. 1 
ulecellansoua            922.1    4,559.2                                           0_ 
i-tm
iialigal ~     ~        ~        ~        



I 933/84
a                 C w   (CFAI  1i 11  ons)                                                                               (CFAF milLiona)
EXPiEDITURE                                             INCOME                                           UTILIZATION                                             SOURCEF
Purchase of goods                   488.1       Sales of goods                     562.1                Technical assistance
Purchase of paddy                  1.'11.1      Provision of scrvices              3112 .1                services            1,224.3
Invest. Incorp.       211.1    1,431.4.   Subsidies
Consuwption of materials                        Sales of rice                    1,918.3
and supplies:           611.6                                                                           Operating result    3,811.1                     tech. assistance    1,411.4
460.1                  Miscellaneous income                                                                                   operations            L.850.5
-    121.1                    and gains:                                               depreciation    - _,010.6    1,850.5         equipment             2,209.9   5,497.8
prod. from stock        16.4        961,0                                         219.8
Investments                                   Loans
Transport. servLcee consumed         131.6                                                                total Invest.       3,527.7                 Governmnt              1,310.6
invest. Ineorp. -   213.1       3,114.6    Others                   270.8   1,581.4
Other servIces        1,024.6
techn. assist.  - L,224.3         400.3                                                              Other capitalisations                  5.5
Miscell, charges and losses                                                                             Debt service                             0
57.2
financial exs          22.1                                                                          Increase L' working capital                    Charges on vorking capital
fin, receipts    -   13.5          65.8
customers             475.9                  stocks                  134.4
Personnel expenses                 1,204.5                                                                Governrent          1,199.1                  suppliers               54668
Others                521.1    2,196.1       cash                  1,044.1  1,715.5
Tamez and dutIee                     220. 2___
Depreciation charge               2,010.6       Operating loss                   3,861.1                                      TOTAL       8,a,4;z                            TOTAL     !dW4               I
TOTAL       6.19.  8,                          TOTAL      b893.8
BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30. 1984.
(CrAr millions)
ASSETS                                    LIABILITtES
Fixed Assets in service                       Met situation
21,774.6                 capital              2,500
depreciation     -  9.104.8   14,369.8    reserves             -    215.    2,2t4.8
Other capitalizatlions                 51.9   Equipment subsidies              15,321.1
Flied assets in progress           1,564.6
Circulating assets                  1,905.3   Long- and mdium-ters loans   2,239.9
Provlsion/losses and charges  1,255.9
Liquid and available assets                   Short-term creditors                                                                     W 
custoeers           1,219.4                   suppliers            2,245.6
Cove.r,nt           3,413.2                   bank overdraft         L93.1
bank                  *73.7                   mlscellaneous           8.i!o    3,416.8 
tscetllneous        1,42.I 6,608.9                                                                                   1
RAMA



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
SAED
PROVISIONAL OPERATING ACCOUNTS
(CFAF milllons)
EXPENDITURE                                   INCOME
84/85  85/86  86/87                      84/85  85/86  86/87
Purchase of goods        700    660    --      Sales of goods    700    660    --
Purchase of paddy      1.020  1.530  7,175    Services            550    820  1,250
Fuel, lubricants         650    750    800    Sales of rice   1,450  2,240  3,130
Maintenance and
operations (incl.
paddy marketing cost)   725    870    850
Personnel costs:
permanent staff      1.200  1.020    840
temporary staff        250    240    180
Financial expenses        60     60      40
Taxes and duties          50     --      -
Depreciation charge   2.200  2,500  3,000    Operating loss  4,125  3,910  3,505
6.855  7;6,3,0  7A88"5                  u8Lqz 73 78
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(CFA7 millions)
UTILIZATION                                  SOURCES
84/85    85/86  86/87                     84/85  85/86  86/87
Operating result                               Project equil.
(less depreciation)   1.925  1,410    505    subsidy             548  2.862    620
Project fixed assets    170  1,380       70    Project fixed
assets subsidy   170  1,380       70
Investments            2,300  4.603  5,500    Equipment
subsidy        2,300  4,600  5.500
Increase in working
capital              - 1.377  1,452    115
3 Bl&   41.92            TOTAL        3,018  BL842 O



- 44 -
Annex 5
7age Z of 3
(b)   Prices
CFAF/kg                1984/85      1985/86       1986/87
Purchase of paddy by SAED             66.0          85.0         90.0
Sale of rice by SAED to CPSP a/      154.0         183.0        193.0
(After deduction of sales of
by-products) a/                    149.8         178.0        188.0
a/   Price negotiated between SAED and CPSP.
The transfer price of white rice from SAED to CPSP is independent
of the level of the consumer price, whose fluctuations have not been estimated.
(c)   .nputs
In 1984/85 only urea is subsidized by SAED (25S), and that is the
last subsidy year. The other fertilizers are already no longer subsidized.
In view of the efforts undertaken by the input distributors and the
cooperatives, it can be expected that, given a relatively prudent development
of agricultural credit, SAED input sales, which fell by about 20X in 1984/85
owing to financing difficulties, will fall by 401 in 1985/86 and 100% in
1986/87.
(d)   Services to farmers
Because of the increase in paddy price to CFAF 25/kg, the prices of
services to farmers have risen faster than anticipated in tie contract plan:
CFAF/ha                1984/85      1985J86
Cultivation                    12,500       32,000
Offsetting                      7,500       12,800
Rice irrigation                31,500       45,000
                   Cultivation and milling are billed at cost and irrigation at 60% of
cost. Thus, the maintenance of the levy on the 1985/86 harvest is at the same
level as that of 1984/85, i.e. CFAF 1,250/kg for the payments in kind made by
the farmers (practically all), which does not entail any reduction in the
quantity of cereals available at the producer level.



- 45 -
Annex S
Page 3 of 3
(e)   Investments
Taking into account the comparison between forecasts and likely
execution in 1984/85, the capital expenditures forecasts for FY 1985/86 and
1986/87 have been revised, as follows:
CFAF billions            1984/85       1985/86       1986/87
Physical development (new
areas and rehabilitation)             2.2           3.5           4.5
Equipment                             0.1          0.3           0.5
Rice miLls                             -           0.8           0.5
The capacity of the Richard-Toll rice mill would be increased Erom
8,000 to 22,000 tonnes/year, its storage capacity would be doubled and it
would be equipped with a rice hulls center. The capacity of the Rcss-Bethio
rice mill would be increased from 9,000 to 20,000 tonnes/year and it would
also be equipped with a rice hulls center. The whole of the financing would
be provided by [fW. It would be important that the consultant entrusted with
the rice-mills study be able, without delay, to present an evaluation of these
investments in relation to other possible solutions.
(f)   Reduction in personnel
The labor force figures used (average over the year) are as follows:
unlts                  1984/85       1985/86       1986/87
Average labor force              950          800           600



SMJrS OaGANLAION CHAI
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  -   lar6
AEu ;t                              11
-E4 [1E                                               i                  H 
IAM~~~~                    "*     AIS  V.Maw                                ,      X 
.[-w^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~A5 bX Ibb
J~~~                                  ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X  .551



