CREDIT NUMBER 1632 SE
OFFICIAL
COCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Irrigation Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
ET DES VALLEES DU FLEUVE
SENEGAL ET DE LA FALEME
Dated            aA w            , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1632 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         tA-.4-              , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA ION (the Association) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DIAMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION DES TERRES DU
DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DES VALLEES DU FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DE LA
FALEME (SAED)
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Senegal (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million   seven   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 4,700,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SAED
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
"HEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (3)
available to SAED, as a grant;
WHEREAS SAED, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SAED declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿- 2 -
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the provisions of paragraph (a) above with regard to the
provision of funds, SAED shall open and thereafter maintain in
the Borrower's currency an account (the Revolving Fund) in a
commercial Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) Amounts deposited in the Revolving Fund pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of the Credit Agreement shall be used only to
make payments to meet local expenditurea made or to be made in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the
Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. SAED shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SAED shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) SAED shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SAED of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAED
Section 3.01. SAED shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
and agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. SAED shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. SAED shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association, for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAED shall maintain recorcs and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) SAED shall:
(i) have   its   accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
audited, each fiscal year, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and: (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, SAED shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records  (contracts,   orders,  invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records;
(iv) ensure that the separate accounts referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) above are audited semi-annually
and that the report of such interim audit is
furnished to the Association not later than one
month after its completion; and
(v) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. SAED shall not, until the completion of the
Project, make investments in new facilities except as provided
for in Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SAED thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If   the  Development  Credit Agreement   terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SAED of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed.to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SAED:
Socigtd nationale d'Amfnagement et
d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Sfndgal et des Valldes
du Fleuve Sfnfgal et de la Falfmf
B.P. 74
St. Louis, Rpublique du Sdndgal
Telex:
71533-SG
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SAED, or by SAED on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by SAED's Director-General or such other person or persons as
SAED shall designate in writing, and SAED shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'AMENAGEMENT ET
D'EXPLOITATION DES TERRES DU DELTA
DU FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DES VALLEES DU
FLEUVE SENEGAL ET DE LA FALEME
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedure
1.   Contracts for maintenance works estimated to cost $10,000
equivalent or more may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Maintenance works for the irrigation network may be carried
out by force account.
3.   Contracts for spare parts, materials and supplies estimated
to cost less than $10,000 equivalent may be procured by directly
negotiated purchase.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit" published by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines) shall apply.      Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the *other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-9-
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdLawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist SAED in carrying out the Project, SAED
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants- by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the originI in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of         ,
198g.
FOR SECRETARY


