                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 30999

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-33500)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
                          (US$ 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                          TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF

                                    NIGERIA

                                     FOR A

              SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROGRAM
                                (PILOT PROJECT)




                                 December 22, 2004




Water and Urban 2
Country Department 12
Africa Region

        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange Rate Effective October 2004)

          Currency Unit = Naira
                1 Naira = US$ 0.007
                 US$ 1 = 135.50 Naira

               FISCAL YEAR


     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS        Country assistance strategy
CDD        Community driven development
CY         Calendar year (January to December)
DFID       Department for International Development (UK)
EPT        Extension and promotion teams
ERR        Economic rate of return
EU         European Union
FGN        Federal Government of Nigeria
FMF        Federal Ministry of Finance
FMP        Federal Ministry of Planning
FMWR       Federal Ministry of Water Resources
FPCU       Federal project coordination unit
ICR        Implementation completion report
IP         Implementation progress
LGA        Local government authority
O&M        Operation and maintenance
PAD        Project appraisal document
PDO        Project development objective
PSR        Project status report
NETWAS     Network for Water and Sanitation International
NPV        Net present value
NWRI       National Water Resources Institute
NWRP       National Water Rehabilitation Project
M&E        Monitoring and evaluation
MOU        Memorandum of understanding
SDR        Special drawing rights
SMWR       State Ministry of Water Resources
SPCU       State project coordination unit
STWSSP     Small towns water supply and sanitation program
UNICEF     United Nations Children's Fund
VIP        Ventilated improved pit latrine
WCA        Water consumer association
WSS        Water supply and sanitation
WTP        Willingness to pay

                 Vice President:  Gobind Nankani
              Country Director    Hafez M.H. Ghanem
               Sector Manager     Inger Andersen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Hassan Kida

                                           NIGERIA
                                 SMALL TOWNS WATER


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P064008                                                  Project Name: SMALL TOWNS WATER
Team Leader: Hassan Madu Kida                                        TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SMALL TOWNS WATER                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-33500
   Country/Department: NIGERIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (57%); Central government administration (37%);
                            Other industry (6%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Water resource management (P); Access
                            to urban services for the poor (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/25/1999                                     Effective: 05/01/2000                08/01/2000
     Appraisal: 01/25/1999                                         MTR:                             02/17/2003
      Approval: 05/18/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Federal Republic of Nigeria/Fed. Min. of Water Resources & Rural Development
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Godbind Nankani                                Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Hafez M. H. Ghanem                             Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader at ICR:             Hassan Kida                                    David Henley
ICR Primary Author:             Undala Alam & Hassan Kida


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project's design and objectives need to be assessed vis-à-vis developing a new approach to meeting the

water supply and sanitation (WSS) needs and capacities of Nigeria's small towns. A third of Nigeria's total
population (44 million people of 133 million by 2002 estimates) is scattered across the country's
2,000-3,000 small towns with inadequate access to water supply and sanitation. With the Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) of halving the number of people without sustainable access to safe drinking
water and basic sanitation by 2015, tackling Nigeria's small towns is important. The project defines small
towns as comprising 5,000-50,000 inhabitants. Despite a localized high density of people, the Federal
Government of Nigeria (FGN) has focused on service provision to the rural and large urban areas.

In 1997, the FGN began a two-year study to examine small towns' WSS services provision, revealing an
inadequate legacy of unfinished or unsustainable works ­ 80% of completed works were not functioning.
Similarly, a survey of Bank projects between 1985-92 found 85% of projects were unsustainable. Despite
the need for improved WSS services, the number and geographic spread of Nigeria's small towns and finite
public financing, necessitated an approach that minimized reliance on the national treasury for construction
and especially operation and maintenance (O&M). Hence, the attraction of involving the beneficiaries and
the private sector. However, poor communities would be challenged to maintain payments and sustained
access to privately operated services. Yet, the poor are equally challenged by public schemes given their
tendency to fail. Sustainability required affordable WSS options, and ensuring the communities understood
the practical, financial and O&M implications of those options. The FGN outlined a national STWSS
program based upon the study and global experiences that used demand-based delivery, community
ownership and management, streamlined institutional support and greater private sector participation. It
requested the World Bank's assistance in piloting the new approach through a learning and innovation loan
(LIL). The LIL would start with 12 small towns across three states, affecting 170,000 people over a four
year period (2000-2003). This was later increased to 16 small towns during implementation and 325,000
people.

The pilot project's development objectives were to: "(a) test and refine the concept and sustainability of
community ownership and management of water supply and sanitation systems in small towns, (b)
establish and test institutional and government structures needed to assist communities to obtain water and
sanitation facilities in a demand-led way, (c) develop financial arrangements for cost-sharing by
communities and government, and (d) test the availability of and scope for private sector participation in
planning, design, construction and operations management, based on a system of contracting by consumer
associations." These objectives reflect the government's strategy as encapsulated in the `National Water
Supply and Sanitation policy' issued in January 2000, which redefined small towns as 5,000-20,000
people.

At the time of project preparation, the Bank had not prepared a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Nigeria. An Interim Country Strategy Note was being prepared for May 2000 based upon an earlier
version from October 4, 1999. The Interim Note highlighted Nigeria's development challenges and the
Bank's transitional strategy until a CAS was prepared. A subsequent Interim CAS (February 13, 2002)
observed that the government's economic and STWSS policies foresaw the private sector's involvement in
improving the poor's access to basic services. Given Nigeria's resources, it also saw the Bank's role as a
facilitator, meaning it would concentrate on building capacity, assisting with policy change and
strengthening institutions including empowering local communities to play active role in own development.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project's objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                     - 2 -

The IDA credit (US$5 million) and counterpart funding (US$4 million) totaled US$9 million in project
financing. The Project Appraisal Document's (PAD) description confusingly groups the activities
differently in different places. However, the Project Status Reports (PSRs) supervised the following
components:
1.       Water supply systems construction (US$4.7 million) ­ aimed at financing civil works and
         equipment for water supply and sanitation infrastructure in the participating small towns.
2.       Vehicles, office equipment and operating costs (US$0.6 million) ­ of establishing the project
         coordinating units in the Federal Government and the three State Governments of Katsina, Niger
         and Ebonyi.
3.       Workshops and promotional activities (US$0.45 million) ­ at the community level to sensitize them
         to the appropriate technical, financial and institutional arrangements needed for sustainability.
4.       Overseas training and networking (US$0.1 million) ­ for the Federal and State Project
         Coordinators to learn from other African countries with WSS programs for small towns.
5.       Management, engineering and extension services (US$2.65 million) ­ to build awareness and
         capacity at the community, state and federal level on operating and maintaining water supply and
         sanitation facilities.
6.       Sanitation improvement (US$0.5 million) ­ ventilated improved pits (VIP) demonstration units are
         constructed for replication at the household level.

3.4 Revised Components:

Though the components did not change, the number of small towns targeted and the project duration did.
From the original 12 small towns envisaged, 10 towns participated with six towns added after the mid-term
review in February 2003. A change in the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) exchange rate, and lower unit
costs in the first 10 towns, provided a chance to test the institutional arrangements developed during the
pilot. The project's original closing date was June 30, 2003. However, financial mismanagement early on
delayed implementation, therefore, in April 2003, the FGN requested an extension of six months. Based on
the Bank's experience of working in Nigeria and the work involved, the credit was extended by 12 months
to June 30, 2004.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory because the design did not explicitly incorporate the reality
of re-engaging in Nigeria after the Abacha era. (As there is not a `marginally satisfactory' rating in Section
2, the rating is left as `satisfactory' rather than downgrading it heavily to `unsatisfactory'). With a focus on
ensuring a timely re-engagement, the PAD did not fully assess the FGN's ability and willingness to
implement the new approach, nor is it clear in its description of the components, and key performance
indicators, as it could have been. Nonetheless, substantively, the LIL did incorporate the latest thinking on
meeting small towns' WSS needs, ensured its objectives captured the government and Interim CAS's
priorities and complied with the Bank's environmental and social safeguards. In the absence of a national
policy at project preparation, the LIL used the FMWR's previous work to make assumptions about the
communities' willingness to pay, the government's ability to self finance a national STWSS program and
its O&M, government's willingness to include the private sector, the use of appropriate technology options
for the WSS schemes, the involvement of the communities and identifying the different roles played by men
and women. However, the assumption that the "program is implemented as designed" was negated. Though
the project had included M&E from the start, in order to improve implementation by providing continual
feedback, and ensure compliance with project design and procedures, this was thwarted with the M&E
consultants only being recruited in 2003.



                                                       - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's outcome is rated unsatisfactory overall because the pilot failed to test the objectives' aim, and
implementation was poorly managed resulting in delays due to financial mismanagement at the federal
level, and decisions being deferred upwards.

Objective (a) ­        Test and refine the concept and sustainability of community ownership and
                       management of water supply and sanitation systems in small towns:

This objective was partially achieved because all sixteen communities involved in the project established
Water Consumer Associations (WCAs), selected the scheme best suited to their needs from the options
available, and opened accounts for their 10% contribution to capital costs; however, their capacity to
manage the O&M was not tested as the completed works have not been handed over. The communities'
sceptism of the government's handling of the project resulted in only one O&M account being opened,
despite their understanding of O&M's importance. Project implementation followed a more traditional
top-down approach, starting with the site selection which took into account Nigeria's political reality. It is
uncertain how well the communities understood that they will be responsible for O&M given the federal
government and its management consultants' large presence. It is appreciated that the federal and state
governments had to be involved and a degree of prescription was needed to kickstart the process,
nonetheless, it is the extent and manner of their involvement that seems to undermine this objective. The
communities' involvement in decision-making appears to have been limited to choosing WSS schemes from
pre-selected options. The facilities' design, construction, supervision and operation seemed to be
pre-determined by the management consultants. Consequently, ownership and O&M responsibilities are
confused, with the communities waiting for the government's permission to use the WSS schemes. This
confusion is heightened by the federal government's failure to handover completed facilities to the
communities even though completion certificates have been issued to the contractors; and the concerns
raised by the state and federal governments after the communities signed contracts with the service
operators to run the schemes for them.

Objective (b) ­        Establish and test institutional and government structures needed to assist
                       communities to obtain water and sanitation facilities in a demand-led way:

This objective was partially achieved. Institutional responsibility for water supply and sanitation is unclear
across government at the local, state and federal level. The project sought to begin coordinating by
establishing implementation units at the federal level (FPCU) and the state levels (one SPCU per state).The
implementing units worked with the technical consultants and communities to develop suitable WSS
systems. After initial difficulties, including replacement of senior FPCU staff, the institutional structure
began to bear fruit, with work progressing sufficiently to suggest it would be completed by project close.
As the contracting entity, the FPCU has been slow to hold their contractors accountable by demanding
better performances and terminating contracts despite the Bank's repeated suggestions. This highlights the
federal government's limited capacity to implement a STWSS program across 36 states. The local
government authorities' (LGA) exclusion impeded implementation as it has the most contact with the
communities, and considerable experience of health and hygiene promotion. Institutional reforms are also
needed at the state and federal level to allow a community based approach. However, despite the federal
government's reassurances, it is now doubtful that the communities will have functioning WSS facilities.



                                                       - 4 -

Objective (c) ­       Develop financial arrangements for cost-sharing by communities and government:

This objective was partially achieved because financial arrangements were developed, but weakly adhered
to during implementation. Project preparation identified several risks mainly relating to the communities
and government's counterpart contributions. Though the funds were contributed, it was a longdrawn out
process due to wariness between the different entities. The state governments had to hand over their
contributions (30% of capital costs) to the federal government, and were unable to independently check the
transactions. Unsurprisingly, they are unhappy with this arrangement, and suspicious of the federal
government's management, especially with Katsina and Niger State being asked to reimburse Abuja as they
had overspent. A pre-pilot survey indicated a high willingness to pay (WTP), in line with the communities'
desperate need for WSS services. Despite this willingness, the communities only started contributing when
the physical works started because of their wariness of government promises. The communities' collection
methods included going house to house, and relying on wealthy benefactors. Collection of O&M costs is
hampered by works that are completed but not operational. Contrary to the risk assessment during project
preparation, the communities have shown themselves to be organized, willing and able to contribute
towards capital costs, when the project has shown itself to be a serious activity.

Objective (d) ­       Test the availability of and scope for private sector participation in planning,
                      design, construction and operations management, based on a system of contracting
                      by consumer associations:

This objective was not achieved because the LIL was unable to test the innovative part, which was the
communities' use of the private sector to operate their WSS schemes. Despite the private sector's (ranging
from the local artisan to multi-national companies) willingness to engage, and the communities' willingness
to enter into a contractual relationship with them, the federal government signed most of the contracts. The
FGN recruited the management consultants providing technical support to the FPCU on planning, design
and supervision of the civil works' construction; and the nine international and Nigerian contractors. The
contractors' quality varied, with two terminations in October 2004, for Amoffia, Okposi and Radda towns.
Involving the local private sector necessitates supporting them to deliver quality products and services, but
is only possible if the states allow it by giving legal protection to private investments. In Katsina State, the
communities were unable to sign the agreements with their chosen service operators because the SPCU and
the State Ministry of Water Resources (SMWR) were seeking the Governor's `blessing'.

Though most communities accepted the private sector's involvement, the community in Rijau (Niger State),
reported that the government told them they had to have a service operator. Some communities may not
have fully appreciated the implications of private sector involvement, notably, volumetric over flat rate
charging, and the need for all users to pay. Those communities that have signed contracts with service
operators have not been able to test the arrangements because the schemes have not been handed over to
them, which questions the schemes' sustainability and replicability. The FMWR proposes to receive the
works from the contractor until they are formally handed over to the communities through a Transfer of
Assets agreement signed between the WCAs and the FMWR. The contractors were also asked to run the
completed works until the hand over to ensure water flowed, but they refused.

The schemes' sustainability is threatened by confusion over O&M costs which the communities are
underestimating, as these were not explained when the different WSS options were presented, nor have the
communities been told subsequently. In addition, the communities have not decided whether they will pay a
flat rate or charge by use to cover O&M costs. In Rijau (Niger State) they are proposing to charge 9 Naira




                                                       - 5 -

(US$0.07) per m . In Dandja (Katsina State) they are proposing to charge two rates, one for household
                  3


connections and another for standpipe collection (2 Naira/US$0.02 per 20 liter jerrycan).

Limited competition resulted in high service fees and water rates. The operators negotiated monthly fees
ranging from 160,000 Naira (US$1,181) (in Dandja, Katsina State) to 120,000 Naira (US$886) (in Doko,
Niger State). In Doko, the community was negotiating to lower the service fee to 70,000 Naira (US$517)
per month. The communities, and government, are expecting the service operators to train the communities
to operate and maintain the schemes during their two-year service contract, and then hand over to the
communities at the end. Given an operator's focus on profit, it is unclear what incentive they have to train
the communities and hand the schemes over. Rather, a community's inability to operate a scheme would
suggest that the operator's services are still needed. An alternative may be to have the construction firms
operate the schemes for six months, during which they would train the communities, and receive a payment
upon hand over. The contractor in Bangi (Niger State) confirmed that such an arrangement would be
attractive as they are already working with the communities.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1 ­         Water supply systems construction
                      PAD US$4.7 million, 52% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$3.5 million (75%)

This component is rated unsatisfactory because it is uncertain how the uncompleted works will be financed
now that the IDA credit has closed. The burden will probably fall on the federal and state government and
the communities. Only 8 out of 16 towns are 100% complete and completion certificates were issued in
June 2004; the contracts for three towns have been terminated due to unsatisfactory work, and five are in
differing stages of completion (60-97%). Contracts for the civil works in the first ten towns were signed in
April 2003, and the additional six towns in November 2003. Thus far, 65% of the credit has been disbursed
under the civil works category. Yet, as the last PSR noted in rating the component satisfactory, there was
ample time to complete the work before the credit closed. Despite completion certificates being issued, the
FMWR has not handed the works over to the communities, even though the Project Implementation
Guidelines (Clause 56.1, Taking Over) state it should happen within seven days of completion. It is of
particular concern that the works are sitting idle as this could lead to damage, the machinery is untested as
are the communities' O&M procedures, but more importantly, the communities are not receiving water.

Component 2 ­         Vehicles, office equipment & operating costs
                      PAD US$0.6 million, 7% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$0.15 million (25%)

This component is rated satisfactory, as the FPCU purchased office equipment and vehicles for themselves
and the SPCUs, all in good time. Initially seven project vehicles were kept in Abuja, but in accordance with
the Bank's recommendation, the FPCU transferred them to the states. The FPCU was also scaled down to
seven people, as their expenses were too high for a pilot project, resulting in 50% savings in operating
costs.

Component 3 ­         Workshops & promotional activities
                      PAD US$0.45 million, 5% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$0.12 million (27%)

This component is rated satisfactory, as the communities and government implementing units received
training for the appropriate skills. Extension and Promotion Teams (EPT) were established comprising
consultants and the LGAs' health and community development workers. These teams sought to include
both men and women in choosing the WSS options. Several workshops were held to sensitize WCA


                                                      - 6 -

members regarding the schemes' O&M needs, especially for handpumps, financial management and book
keeping, hygiene and health practices. For the first ten towns, the management consultants appointed a
Project Facilitator (PF) from each community to assist in building awareness in their communities.
However, the arrangement was not particularly successful, and the management consultants discontinued
the arrangement once the contracts were over. The communities though chose to maintain the PFs as the
main link between the project's contractors and the WCA. The SPCUs' received training in computer
skills.

Component 4 ­         Overseas training & networking
                      PAD US$0.1 million, 1% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$0.21 million (210%)

This component is rated satisfactory, as all the FPCU and SPCU engineers underwent considerable training
within Nigeria, and internationally in Dubai, UAE and Kenya with Network for Water and Sanitation
International (NETWAS) which looked at community water supply management. Some of the
implementing units' community development and accounts staff also underwent overseas training. Good
links with the National Water Resources Institute (NWRI) were established where certain WCA and SPCU
staff attended several bouts of training on the `hardware' and `software' aspects of water supply.

Component 5 ­         Management, engineering, extension services
                      PAD US$2.65 million, 29% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$2.4 million (91%)

This component is rated unsatisfactory, even though certain elements were satisfactory, because of the
management consultants' continued poor performance which undermined project implementation. In the
early stages, the project's financial management did not comply with the Bank's financial and procurement
guidelines. The pilot project's funds were mixed in with the National Water Rehabilitation Project's
(NWRP), and expenses had been authorized that were either ineligible or had not followed due process.
Rectification took a few months and included separation of the accounts, replacing of key FPCU staff and
strengthening the financial and procurement procedures by appointing a new Financial Controller. By 2003
the project's fiduciary management had improved dramatically to satisfactory standards. Agreed
procurement schedules are followed, and procurement is in compliance with the Bank's guidelines, though
there remained an occasional delay in submitting updated procurement plans.

The management consultants' performance remained unsatisfactory throughout implementation. The firm
functioned as if it was implementing a traditional top-down rather than a community based approach.
Several issues related to the communities' sensitization, and schemes' design were questioned by the Bank,
leading it to strongly recommend placing a sociologist as the consultants' deputy team leader. However, the
FGN did not hold its consultants to this. The project's M&E was heavily delayed because the consultants
were not recruited until 2003, which defeated the original intent of drawing lessons from, and incorporating
them into, implementation. Once in place, the M&E consultants submitted progress reports to the FGN.
The project steering committee envisaged during preparation did not meet regularly, though the FMWR
was able to provide some policy guidance. However, the need for a steering committee remains, with
several agencies participating and monitoring implementation's progress.

Component 6 ­         Sanitation improvement
                      PAD US$0.5 million, 6% of total cost; Actual disbursed US$0.11 million (22%)

This component is rated unsatisfactory. The PAD noted that the LIL would take a low-key approach to
sanitation because the FGN did not appear to prioritize it, and a national strategy had yet to evolve.
Though a national policy on STWSS was presented in January 2000, the risk that "insufficient attention


                                                      - 7 -

would be paid to the sanitation component" has proven to be significant. With financing entirely from the
federal government's counterpart funding, this component has been dogged by problems from the outset
even though demonstration units have been built in the first ten communities, and were in various stages of
completion in the six new towns. The result has been poor uptake by individual households. The main
obstacle cited by the communities was the cost of replicating the demonstration units in individual
households. The units' design entailed substantial use of concrete, in a context where many households
cannot afford to use concrete in their homes let alone their latrines. In Rijau, Niger State the ventilation
improved pit latrines (VIP) cost 38,000 Naira (US$280) each. In the absence of cheaper alternatives,
households continued to rely on their existing pit latrines. The confusion surrounding ownership extended
to the sanitation facilities, and most units had yet to be commissioned which meant that the communities'
plans for O&M execution were untested. In terms of health and hygiene awareness, the pilot benefited from
prior work that was done through the local government authorities. Given the LGAs experience and
knowledge of working with the communities and the issues, their absence presumably hampered the
sanitation component.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The PAD calculated the economic rate of return (ERR) as 26%, and the net present value (NPV) as
US$1.3 million assuming a 15% discount rate.

Of the sixteen systems that the LIL supported, only one is currently functioning. Therefore, while
recognizing that the NPV and ERR for the whole project is lower than that forecasted in the PAD, the ICR
did an economic analysis on the one functioning system at project close ­ Ndubia town's (Ebonyi State)
borehole system. The ICR compared a hand pump's NPV and ERR to the PAD's economic analysis, and
the base case results are shown below:

                                    PAD        ICR
NPV (million US$/ Naira)            N/A       0.12 / 16.3
IRR (%)                             20         62

For this single system, compared to the PAD, the ICR results are significantly better. This is likely because
the assumed cost of "replaced" vendor water used in the PAD analysis is not known, the length of the
analysis period was longer, or a combination of both factors. In the ICR, vendor cost is assumed to be 150
Naira (US$1.11) per m and the analysis period is 15 years. In any case, the sensitivity and switching
                          3


analysis show that the results estimated in the ICR are quite robust for this one scheme. If more schemes
become operational, then a further analysis would be warranted to confirm the PAD's predicted results, and
especially for more complicated schemes with electro-mechanical equipment.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated as negligible because it is judged to be unsustainable. Water
supply and sanitation is a state responsibility, and water resources management is a federal responsibility.
However, there is considerable overlap and, therefore, confusion between the levels. At the federal level, the
FMWR has the Department of Water Supply and Quality Control (DWSQC) within which are housed the
units for water supply to the rural, small towns and urban areas, as well as quality control. Some states


                                                        - 8 -

have multiple actors involved in delivering WSS services. In Katsina, for example, there is a State Ministry
of Water Resources (SMWR) with separate units for water supply to small towns, urban areas, rural areas
and water resources. Even though there is an independent water authority, the units are accountable to the
SMWR. In other states there are different and autonomous institutions responsible for the water supply to
rural, semi urban (small towns) and urban areas. The local government authorities also have Departments
of Works which house a unit focusing on delivering water supply to small towns and rural areas. The
communities have existing `Development Associations' (DAs) which are chaired by the chief or equivalent.
The DAs act as umbrella organizations bringing together different groups such as farmers, youth and
women, to deal with communal matters.

The LIL established an institutional framework that clarified responsibilities for STWSS at the different
levels for the project's duration. However, it failed to adequately include the LGA in project
implementation. In each small town, a water consumer association (WCA) was established as a
sub-association of the DA. (The framework's sustainability is addressed in section 6). The project
coordination units were established at the federal and state level, drawing staff from the federal and state
ministries of water resources. To strengthen the coordination units' implementation capacity, management
consultants were recruited, who in turn hired members of the communities to act as Project Facilitators.
The FGN's 1998 Implementation Guidelines for STWSS were used as the basis for the project's
implementation rules during the launch workshop in November 2000. The Bank's supervision of the LIL's
fiduciary management may have contributed towards the FMF establishing multi-lateral units specifically
to handle Bank projects.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The primary factor outside the control of the government or implementing agency was the time it took for
the communities to adjust to the new approach promoted by the pilot. Experience from other Bank projects
shows that a demand-driven community based approach takes longer to implement than the traditional
top-down approaches. Though the government and implementing agency could have trimmed the time taken
the net result would still have been longer. However, there are a number of factors that the government and
the implementing agency could have controlled but did not do so adequately, that affected project
implementation (please see sections 7.5 and 7.6).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

There are several factors that were subject to the Federal Ministry of Water Resources' (FMWR) control,
which were not dealt with adequately, please see section 7.5 `Government implementation performance'.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Primary responsibility for the quality of implementation rested with the Federal Project Coordination Unit
(FPCU), even though the FMWR was ultimately responsible for the project. For a discussion of the factors
influencing implementation and the FPCU's handling of these factors, please see section 7.6 `Implementing
Agency'.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Of the total US$9 million available, the IDA credit (US$5 million) constituted 56% and counterpart



                                                       - 9 -

funding (US$4 million) 44%. By September 30, 2004, the project had disbursed US$6.15 million or 68%
of total project financing, of which US$3.72 million or 73.5% was from the IDA credit. The uncompleted
civil works will have to be funded using local contributions (communities, State and Federal funding). The
civil works costs were lower than anticipated, meaning that even if they had been completed, there would
not have been 100% disbursement. Slow implementation has meant that disbursement forecasts have been
more than actual, from an early stage. Six more towns could be added because the Special Drawing Rights
(SDR) exchange rate to the US dollar changed, coupled with lower civil works' costs. This was an
opportunity to test the institutional arrangements developed during the project. Though there were some
problems with counterpart funding at all levels, with contributions being slow to be made, they did not
delay payments. By June 30, 2004 all the states and communities had contributed their portion, whereas,
the federal government's contribution had yet to be made.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's sustainability is rated as unlikely because it was unable to test the communities' commitment
to operation and maintain the WSS facilities.

Institutionally: It is considered unlikely that the FPCU and SPCUs created specifically for the LIL will
continue to exist without external support. A STWSS unit was also created in the FMWR's Department of
Water Supply and Quality Control to support a national push for small towns. The FGN's support of the
unit will be indicative of its commitment to the small towns program, as inadequate resources will stymie
the unit's ability to M&E existing schemes and prepare for further activities. The WCAs' continued
existence is probable if the service operators are in place and operating the WSS schemes. It is already
apparent that the communities will only make their O&M contributions if they are benefiting.

Physically: The communities will be challenged to maintain the WSS facilities as some may be too costly
for the communities to sustain. The external service operators may prove too expensive in practice. The
exceptions are the hand pumps which the communities could maintain themselves. In addition, the quality
of work and construction materials used in some cases will necessitate repairs sooner than anticipated
during project design. If the facilities are not to fail due to inadequate maintenance over the next five years,
the federal and state governments will need to assist the WCAs vis-à-vis O&M and in supervising the
service contractors' performance.

Financially: The project's financial sustainability rests upon the communities' willingness to pay (WTP)
for O&M. The initial surveys suggested a high WTP, and was backed up by the communities contributing
10% of capital costs in cash, rather than in kind as is often the case. Despite this willingness, it took
months for the communities to commit their funds because of their past experience with government
promises. The project's failure to have functioning results has underlined the communities' experience and
stemmed their O&M contributions, even though they understand the need for it. Yet, this WTP for O&M
costs can only be tested once the schemes are running and the communities are paying the service operator
regularly, and collecting for O&M.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Given the apparent gap in counterpart funding, uncompleted status of some works, concerns over the
service operators' contract and termination of three construction contracts, it is uncertain how the federal



                                                        - 10 -

government will transition the pilot to regular operation. The Bank is awaiting clarification from the
FMWR.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance during lending is rated marginally satisfactory despite the design including the
latest thinking on small towns' water supply and sanitation needs, the government's priorities, and partially
adaptation to the Nigerian context. It is the Bank's failure to fully incorporate the reality of working in
Nigeria, and therefore, the impact on project implementation that warrants this rating.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory, because, in what can be termed a frank working relationship,
the team repeatedly advised the government on remedial action needed to test and deliver a STWSS
program according to project design. However, given the Nigerian context, supervision ended up focusing
on the practicalities of project management, in particular rectifying the financial mismanagement
discovered in 2002. The team's exhaustive efforts resulted in the FGN returning approximately
US$900,000 to the project that had been disbursed contrary to the Bank's procurement procedures. The
focus on financial management meant that a number of technical issues fell by the wayside. For example,
M&E indicators could have been developed by the project team to gauge implementation, until the FGN
appointed a M&E consultant. Supervision was also difficult logistically, with the sites spread out
geographically. Visiting all sixteen towns, meant driving over 4,000 km. The Bank's standard supervision
co-efficients resulted in an inadequate supervision budget. The core supervision team comprised a Senior
Economist, an experienced Water and Sanitation Consultant, and a Sanitation Engineer based in Abuja.
Additional expertise, such as Financial Management, was added as needed.

The apparent disconnect in reporting on implementation through the PSR ratings, which consistently rated
implementation progress (IP) and project development objective (PDO) as satisfactory, and the ICR's text
that alludes to difficulties during implementation can be seen as a symptom of the Bank's re-engagement
with Nigeria. Though implementation progress was once rated unsatisfactory in early 2003, and both IP
and PDO were rated as unsatisfactory by project close, other aspects of the LIL had been rated as
unsatisfactory during implementation, such as, project and financial management. As the resultant issues
were resolved, the ratings were revised upwards. Despite the problematic start, the project in general
appeared on track to meet its objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory for the reasons given above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Project preparation started in 1997, during the Abacha rule in Nigeria. However, it was not until 1999 that
the government gave its final commitment to having the project. Once started, preparation was
straightforward given the inputs that had been prepared by the federal government with a consulting firm.




                                                     - 11 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's performance was unsatisfactory because it in effect `did too little too late'. As the body
with ultimate responsibility for the pilot project's implementation, the FMWR had an opportunity to test a
new approach that could have led to self-sustaining WSS service provision to 40% of the national
population, approximately 44 million people. Instead, the FMWR followed `business as usual' practices
which in effect meant a failure to effectively monitor and correct implementation as it was rolling out. The
Ministry of Finance (FMF) became involved with the signing of the memorandum of understanding (MOU)
on February 17, 2003, and participated in the Bank's supervision missions.

There are four areas in particular where the FMWR could have shaped the pilot's outcome:
(i)     Site selection ­ it is appreciated that this was an inherently political decision that the FMWR may
        have struggled to affect, but there is little evidence that it even attempted to influence the selection
        of states and communities from a logistical perspective, even though the location influenced the
        quality of supervision.
(ii)    Monitoring the quality of work ­ the federal and state coordination units were not adequately
        monitored, and the quality of consultants and contractors used was inadequate overall to the work
        being done. However, as the co-signatory, the FMWR's contractural relationship with the technical
        consultants and contractors meant that it could exert influence in ways that the Bank, states and
        communities could not. Against the project's design, the government did not recruit a monitoring
        and evaluation (M&E) consultant until nearly the pilot's end, and therefore defeated the primary
        purpose of having a M&E consultant which was to monitor progress and fold in lessons as the
        pilot was being implemented.
(iii)   Timely actions ­ the FMWR did not act to correct the work of its contracted entities even though
        the Bank repeatedly highlighted areas that needed fixing during supervision. It only terminated the
        contracts for three towns in October 2004, approximately 18 months after the Bank had
        recommended these terminations. Had the terminations been done before June 30, 2004, the works
        could have been completed using the credit, now the governments (federal and state) and the
        communities will have to find the funds.
(iv)    Perceptions of the federal government ­ the FMWR failed to tackle common perceptions held by
        the states and the communities of how the federal government works. A transparent financial and
        decision-making process would have helped to reassure the states that the federal government had
        contributed its counterpart funding, and was handling the states' contribution well. As it was, there
        remained lapses in counterpart funding with the FMWR lagging behind, and the states concerned
        that their accounts were overdrawn as a consequence, which meant that they paid 40% rather than
        30% of the civil works as had been agreed. The communities' wariness of government led to slow
        collection of the capital contribution. Now that some works are completed, and the communities
        should be collecting contributions for the O&M costs, the WCAs are struggling because the
        FMWR has not handed over the works to the communities. This merely goes to underline the
        communities' perceptions that the government does not fulfill its promises and not to invest their
        scarce finances in such schemes.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agency's overall performance was highly unsatisfactory because of delays triggered by
its own financial mismanagement, and its failure to supervise the quality of implementation. As the
implementing agency, the Federal Project Coordination Unit (FPCU) was responsible for implementing the
pilot according to design so that the objectives could be tested. However, the pilot faced problems due to
financial mismanagement at the federal level early on. An audit of CY2000 financial statements showed



                                                       - 12 -

expenses that were ineligible or failed to follow correct procedures. The confusion arose because the
STWSSP funds were mixed in with the National Water Rehabilitation Project's (NWRP). Financial and
procurement specialists were involved in resolving the matter, however, disbursements were suspended for
nine months while the accounts were separated and reimbursed, and key personnel replaced. Extension
work with the communities continued during this period so as not to add further delays. The new FPCU
team improved its fiduciary responsibilities and began to get results. It was agreed to extend the credit's
closing date, however, despite having a longer extension than was requested (12 months rather than the
requested six months) under the FPCU's supervision the 16 WSS facilities are either incomplete or have
not been handed over.

A major shortcoming has been inadequate supervision. Though the FPCU regularly dealt with the
consultants and contractors, there was inadequate follow up on the actions expected. Suggestions made by
the Bank during supervision missions, or the state governments, were not followed up on. Most damaging
to the pilot's implementation was the FPCU's lack of supervision of the technical consultants whose role
permeated the implementation phase from planning to execution. The technical consultants underbid to the
extent that they were unable to provide sufficient personnel to do the job, and the team that had won the bid
was replaced by one of a lesser quality. Neither the FPCU nor the FMWR interviewed the team to ensure
they were up to the job. Having insufficient personnel, forced the technical consultants to subcontract the
work out, but this was done without FPCU and IDA approval and was in breach of their contract. The
technical consultants were slow in giving information that was important to the pilot, for example, the
O&M costs of the options selected, and the implementation manual. Other consultants were brought in to
do the monitoring and evaluation, who assisted in developing a template for the contracts to be signed by
the communities and service operators. Yet, the FPCU and SPCUs only raised concerns about the O&M
issues mentioned in these contracts after the communities had signed them with the service operators. The
FPCU and SPCUs are holding off transferring the completed schemes to the communities until the
consultants have clarified these concerns, yet the contract has finished and it is uncertain when these
clarifications will be made and the handover done.

Another cause for concern was the delay in making decisions. Matters that could have been dealt with at
lower levels, were routinely transferred up. Thus, decision-making was centralized in the FPCU and
FMWR rather than the states and the communities. Delays were inevitable as decisions then had to filter
back down to the level of execution.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Due to the difficulties outlined above during implementation, the Borrower's overall performance is rated
as unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

In asking, `what is appropriate' to ensuring good quality, timely implementation, the following lessons have
been drawn from the Nigeria STWSS pilot project.

·        Any intervention should be geographically limited. Location impacts supervision and therefore
         implementation. The Bank needs to limit its interventions geographically so that adequate
         supervision is physically possible, and a substantial impact can be made. Any intervention over a
         wide spatial distribution will challenge the quality of supervision and dilute the impact.




                                                     - 13 -

·    Supervision must be adequately funded. Given Nigeria's geographical size and the complexity of
     implementing projects there, the Bank's standard supervision co-efficients produce insufficient
     budgets.

·    Subsidiarity ­ states should implement WSS projects. The states are responsible for WSS
     provision, and therefore, should be the implementing entities for water supply and sanitation
     projects. The federal government's role should be limited to monitoring and evaluation. In addition,
     given the local government's relationship with the communities, they should be involved in
     implementing community based projects.

·    Understand and leverage communities' capabilities. Communities are desperate for WSS
     services, and are willing to invest in service provision. It is important to assess the extent of their
     ability and willingness to be involved in providing WSS to themselves, and give them adequate
     support. Given appropriate training and support, the communities could undertake more complex
     matters such as procurement and technical supervision. Though it increases sustainability,
     involving the communities in any stage means higher transaction costs, as the project team will
     have to visit a community several times. Therefore, the government must be willing to accept
     higher upfront implementation costs in consultant fees, and project team travel.

·    Donor coordination is needed. Though the LIL was not negatively impacted by a lack of donor
     coordination, it is evident that other donors are likely to repeat the experiences of the Bank funded
     project. The EU and DFID, working through UNICEF, are supporting small town water supply
     and sanitation schemes in Nigeria. Despite the Bank's efforts, the other programs have not
     incorporated its lessons into their ongoing activities. It does not help that the recipient federal
     ministries differ depending upon whether the support is a credit or a grant, going to the FMWR and
     Federal Ministry of Planning (FMP) respectively. The FGN and the donors need to coordinate their
     activities so as to ensure more effective implementation.

·    Encouraging `self-supervision' by project executers. To facilitate timely, good quality results, use
     a reward system based on outputs and performance for people directly involved in project
     execution.

·    Independent monitoring and evaluation capacity. To ensure quality M&E on the technical
     (`hardware') and institutional (`software') activities it is advisable to have an entity independent of
     the implementing agency, that is in place at project launch. A steering committee should be
     established and meet regularly to direct action according to the M&E reports.

·    Focus on sustainability not asset building. Ensuring sustainability in small towns WSS provision
     implies removing as little decision-making power from the communities as possible. This means
     that the communities should be clear on, and have authority over, all aspects of managing a WSS
     scheme, be able to access affordable water supply and sanitation solutions, good quality materials
     for O&M locally, understanding the principles and being confident to apply them. It also means
     supporting the local private sector to provide the quality materials for O&M.

Recommendation

·    To scale up. With 44 million people in Nigeria's small towns excluded from programs providing
     water supply and sanitation services to the rural and urban areas, it is recommended that the



                                                  - 14 -

        government scales up its STWSS program if the MDG is to be met. If the FGN requests the World
        Bank's support, it is suggested that the Bank uses the following criteria to determine its response:
        o        States are the implementers. Any national STWSS program should be implemented by
                 the states. To improve the probability of success, preference should be given to the reform
                 minded states.
        o        Geographic clustering. To improve supervision and implementation, any intervention
                 should be limited geographically, by building out from existing STWSS programs or other
                 WSS activities funded by the Bank.
        o        Government's commitment to sustainable STWSS. Given finite government funding, the
                 FGN and states should continue to have the communities contribute to costs, and not
                 undermine it by running parallel schemes nearby dispensing free WSS services. The
                 STWSS unit established in the FMWR should be given the resources to conduct M&E of
                 existing works, and identify future activities.
        o        Formal donor coordination. The FGN should establish a formal mechanism to coordinate
                 the support it is receiving from donors in the water sector. If the mechanism is slow in
                 being established, then the donors should create one themselves, to ensure maximum
                 returns on their support.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

On December 1, 2004, the FGN sent a letter to the Bank stating that it would only start preparing an ICR
after December 2004, to be ready for June 2005. Its reasoning was that though the IDA credit closed on
June 30, 2004, the Bank had agreed to continue providing technical assistance until December 31, 2004 to
ensure that the works nearing completion would not be compromised. Therefore, the ICR period would only
commence after the period of technical assistance was over. The Bank replied that in line with its
procedures, the project's ICR was due on December 31, 2004. It also sent a draft of the ICR to the FGN
for review. The FGN has yet to send its comments.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
A national water and sanitation program                                                    A national STWSS program has not been
acceptable to the government and the Bank.                                                 prepared.



Increased use of competing individuals and                                                 The M&E indicators were too vague to
commercial firms in pilot states.                                                          monitor.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
6 WCAs in a new round of towns and 10 in      16 WCAs were established. All 16             All 16 communities established WCAs and
the old round are established. Capital        communities had contributed their 10% of     contributed 10% towards capital costs.
contributions are being made and civil works capital costs. The O&M accounts have not      However, only one community has opened an
are in full swing in the first bunch of towns been opened.                                 O&M account.
(10) and will be launched by November 2003
in the another 6 towns.


Service management in place for 12 WCAs. Not achieved.                                     Communities with completed works have
                                                                                           negotiated contracts with their chosen
                                                                                           service operator. But they have yet to sign the
                                                                                           contracts, or receive the works to hand them
                                                                                           over to the operators to operate.


Three private operators and firms active in   Not achieved.                                Not achieved, see above.
larger water supply system operation.


Project coordination units established at     Achieved.                                    Achieved.
federal level and in 3 states; consultant for
project support hired; 3 extension and
promotion teams established.


Consultants hired and contract signed in May M&E consultants hired in March 2003, and      M&E consultants were hired in March 2003
2003.                                         work in progress; inception report and first and submitted 4 quarterly reports. A report on
                                              quarterly report submitted. Baseline data to the service operators' contracts was issued in
                                              be analysed by November 2003.                August 2004.

1End of project

The performance indicators described above are an amalgamation of the indicators listed in the PAD, MTR
and PSRs. It is recognised that the indicators listed are considered to be inadequate to effective monitoring
and evaluation. However, given the project's unsatisfactory status, the ICR decided against augmenting the
indicators.




                                                                 - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                               Estimate          Estimate            Appraisal
                         Component                             US$ million     US$ million
Water Supply systems construction                                 4.70                 3.50                75
Sanitation improvement                                            0.50                 0.11                22
Vehicles, Office Equipment & Operating Costs                      0.60                 0.15                25
Workshops and promotional activities                              0.45                 0.12                27
Overseas training and networking                                  0.10                 0.21               210
Management and engineering, extension services,                   2.65                 2.40                91
institutional strengthening and project monitoring and
evaluation

Total Baseline Cost                                               9.00                 6.49
                          Total Project Costs                     9.00                 6.49
                    Total Financing Required                      9.00                 6.49


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                  2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                              3.70            0.75            0.00              0.75           5.20
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.20            0.20            0.00              0.20           0.60
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00            2.65              0.45           3.10
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00            0.00              0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00            0.00              0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00            0.00              0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)
   Total                              3.90            0.95            2.65              1.40           8.90
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)

Note: Information for the brackets is unavailable because the PAD does not give the 'projects costs by
procurement arrangements' as financed by the IDA credit.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                  2          N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                              4.37            0.00           0.00              0.00           4.37



                                                   - 17 -

                                           (1.65)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.65)
   2. Goods                                 0.19               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.19
                                           (0.12)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.12)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.94             0.00              1.94
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.94)            (0.00)           (1.94)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                4.56               0.00              1.94             0.00              6.50
                                           (1.77)             (0.00)            (1.94)            (0.00)           (3.71)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Water Supply systems            2.35         1.88         0.47        1.66         1.83       0.00       70.6      97.3      0.0
construction
Sanitation improvement          0.00         0.50         0.00        0.00         0.11       0.00        0.0      22.0      0.0
Vehicles, Office Equipment      0.30         0.00         0.00        0.11         0.04       0.00       36.7      0.0       0.0
& Operating Costs
Workshops and                   0.40         0.30         0.00        0.08         0.04       0.00       20.0      13.3      0.0
promotional activities
Overseas training and           0.10         0.32         0.00        0.19         0.02       0.00       190.0     6.3       0.0
networking
Management and                  1.85         0.80         0.00        1.70         0.70       0.00       91.9      87.5      0.0
engineering, extension
services, institutional
strengthening and project
monitoring and evaluation




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


The economic analysis for the ICR was performed on the only system functioning at the project's closing
date, i.e., a hand pump on borehole system in the town of Ndubia, in Ebonyi State.

The project team's original cost sheets used in the PAD for the economic analysis were not available at the
time of the ICR. However, the economic analysis methodology was described in there and the ICR uses the
same methodology. The major assumptions for the economic analysis are:
·        Benefits derive solely from savings to the household from water not bought from vendors as a
         result of the project (i.e., water from the project is free to consumers);
·        A 15-year analysis period is used (the number of years used in the PAD is unknown);
·        Discount rate equals 15%;
·        Consumption is 20/liters/capita/day (l/c/d);
·        70% capacity utilization, decreasing 2% per year;
·        Equipment is completely replaced every five years;
·        25% contingency on capital costs; and
·        Vendor price equals 150 Naira (US$1.11) per m (cost per m used in the PAD is unknown).
                                                             3            3




Estimated annual O&M costs for the completed scheme at Ndubia were provided by the project team, and
were estimated to be between 2-3% of the capital cost.



Base Case

Base case results of the analysis are shown below for a hand pump on borehole in the PAD and for the
Ndubia scheme for the ICR:

                                     PAD      ICR
NPV (million US$ / Naira)             N/A      0.12 / 16.3
IRR (%)                               20       62

Compared to the PAD, the ICR results are significantly better. This is likely because the assumed cost of
"replaced" vendor water used in the PAD analysis is not known, the length of the analysis period was
longer, or a combination of both factors. (In the ICR is assumed to be 150 Naira (US$1.11) per m and the
                                                                                                  3


analysis period is 15 years.) Using the ICR economic model, a vendor price of 103 Naira (US$0.76) per m    3


would yield an IRR of 20%.



Sensitivity Analysis

A sensitivity analysis was performed for the PAD and was repeated for the ICR. Results, again for a hand
pump on borehole scheme in the PAD and for the Ndubia scheme for the ICR, are shown in the following
table:

 Scenario                Description                PAD IRR (%)            ICR IRR (%)
    A          O&M Costs increase by 20%                     19                   61




                                                       - 19 -

    B         Vendor Price decrease by 20%                 14                  34
    C         A + B                                        13                  33



Switching Analysis

As shown, the analysis is sensitive to the cost of vendor water replaced by water from the project. A
switching analysis done for the ICR shows that a NPV of zero would result when the vendor price is equal
to 76 Naira (US$0.04) per m , or about half the existing and assumed price of 150 Naira (US$1.11) per m .
                              3                                                                            3


No switching analysis was mentioned in the PAD.



Summary

The PAD stated that the financial NPV analysis and IRR calculations would equal the expected consumer
surplus and serve as a measure of the economic benefits arising from the project. No further adjustments
were made to the results to convert them to economic values in the PAD and, lacking the required data to
convert the financial returns to economic returns, the ICR assumes that the financial returns closely
approximate economic returns.

The sensitivity and switching analysis show that the vendor price will largely determine the economic
success of the project. If in Ndubia there are 1,760 households, each would have to pay only about 250
Naira (US$1.85) per year to cover the O&M costs. This compares to 8,760 Naira (US$64.65) per year if
they bought 20 l/c/d solely from vendors. Given the significant cost savings from the scheme installed in
Ndubia under the project, the IRR appears very robust.




                                                     - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/16/1999                4    CLUSTER LEADER (1); TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); WATER SUPPLY
                                             ENGINEER (1); FMA (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/15/1999                3    COUNTRY DIRECTOR (1);
                                             SENIOR COUNSEL (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEEER
                                             (1);


 Supervision
              12/08/2000                6    CLUSTER LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             WATER SUPPLY
                                             ENGINEER (1); SENIOR
                                             ENGINEER (1); FMA (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

              08/23/2001                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR         S               S
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              12/08/2001                6                                     S               S
                                             CLUSTER LEADER (1); TASK
                                             TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (2);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC. (1);
                                             COMMUNITY DVPT SPEC. (1)

              02/03/2002                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); SOCIOLOGIST
                                             (1)
              12/20/2002                6    TEAM LEADER; SANITARY            S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER(1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1); FMS (2).
              02/17/2003                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               S
                                             CONSULTANT(1); SANITARY
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              09/22/2003                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); FMS (1)

              10/31/2003                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S



                                              - 21 -

                                           SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1); FMS (1)

               03/18/2004              3   SANITARY ENGINEER (1);             U    U
                                           CONSULTANT (2)


 ICR
               06/23/04               2     TEAM LEADER (1);                  U    U
                                            WATER RESOURCES
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           13.04                        47.542
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 7.35                        26.115
  Supervision                        113.38                        429.617
  ICR                                   6.39                         6.326
  Total                              140.16                         509.60




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Map of the small towns involved in the pilot project

2.   Correspondence: The World Bank's letter to the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) announcing
     the ICR mission. The FGN's letter to the Bank requesting an extension of the ICR due date to June
     2005; and the Bank's reply declining the extension.

3.   The Bank's letter to the FGN submitting the Bank's draft ICR for the Government's review.

4.   Report by Mouchel Parkman, "Status report on water supply provision"

5.   Report by Mouchel Parkman, "Report on service contract options"

6.   The National Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Policy (2002)

7.   STWSSP project implementation guidelines

8.   Aide memoires (2000-2004)

9.   Project status reports (2001-2004)

10.  Financial reports and audits prepared by Kenneth Okpara

11.  Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the FGN and the World Bank on use of project
     funds

12.  Letter from FGN advising the World Bank of termination of construction contracts

13.  Example of the request for proposals used to identify service operators




                                               - 25 -

- 26 -

