Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19047-UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.6 MILLION
(US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR
SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROGRAM
PILOT PROJECT
April 24, 2000
Water and Urban 2
Country Departmnent 12
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Naira
97.2Naira = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
EPT           Extension and Promotion Teams
FMWRRD        Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development
FPCU          Federal Program/Project Coordination Unit
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LGAs          Local Government Authorities
NGO           Non-Goverunental Organizations
RWS           Rural Water Supply
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SPCU          State ProgramlProject Coordination Unit
STWSSP        Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
VIP           Ventilated Improved Pit
WCA            Water Consumers Association
WT,P          Willingness-to-pay
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:   Yaw Ansu, AFC12
Sector Manager:   Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Tearn Leader:   David Henley, AFTU2



Federal Republic of Nigeria
Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
CONTENTS
A Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
B Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main sector issues and Governm ent strategy ...............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............                                 ..................3
C  Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components ................................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .....................................5
3. Benefits and target population .                       ................................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...........................................................6
D   Project Rationale .................................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .................................................... 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .................................................. 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................... 10
E  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                 11
1. Economic ................................................................                                                    11
2. Financial ................................................................                                                    11
3. Technical ................................................................                                                   11
4. Institutional ................................................................                                               12
5. Social ................................................................                                                      12
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................ 13
7. Participatory approach ............................                                                                          13
F Sustainability and Risks ............................                                                                                      13
1. Sustainability ............................                                                                                  13
2. Critical Risks ............................                                                                                  14
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ............................                                                                  15
G Main Credit Conditions ............................                                                                                       15
1. Effectiveness Conditions ............................                                                                        15



2. Ot                         her ............................ ............................. ........1..................1............. 15
H Readiness for Implementation .15
I Compliance with Bank Policies .16
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map No.: IBRD 30707



Federal Republic of Nigeria
Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Country Departnent 10
Date: April 24, 2000                               Team Leader: David Henley
Country Manager/Director: Yaw Ansu                 Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Project ID: NG-PE-64008                            Sector: WY - Other Water Supply & Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Learning Innovation Loan       Theme(s): Rural Water Supply
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [XI Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data
[] Loan    [X] Credit       [  Grant      [] Guarantee     [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Proposed terms:                         0 Multicurrency       0 Single currency
[X1 Standard Variable   [3 Fixed            [3 LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):         10
Years to maturity:            35
Commitment fee:               0.00%
Service charge:               0.75%
Federal Govemment                                       1.06                               1.06
IDA                                                                       5.00             5.00
Community                                               0.58                               0.58
State Government                                        2.36                               2.36
Total:                                                  4.00              5.00             9.00
Borrower: Federal Republic of Nigeria
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR)
Estimated disbursements 'Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual                                            0.8          1.6         2.0          0.6
Cumulative                                            0.8          2.4         4.4          5.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2003
Expected effectiveness date: May 2000              Expected closing date: December 2003
Implementing agency: Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR)
Contact person: Mustapha Bukar, Director of Water Supply and Quality Control
Address: Area 1, Garki, Abuja
Tel: 234 9 234 2891          Fax: 234 9 234 2895           E-mail: madawaki@infoweb.abs.net



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of this project are to: (a) test and refine the concept and sustainability of
community ownership and management of water supply and sanitation systems in small towns, (b) establish and test
institutional and goverunent structures needed to assist communities to obtain water and sanitation facilities in a
demand-led way, (c) develop financial arrangements for cost-sharing by communities and government, and (d) test
the availability of and scope for private sector participation in planning, design, construction and operations
management, based on a system of contracting by consumer associations.
This project will serve as a learning tool and provide practical demonstration, through selected small towns,
where, with appropriate technical and financial designs, institutional incentives and pricing rules, water supply
systems can be made both viable and sustainable. Furthermore, mechanisms to improve the delivery of household
and community sanitation facilities will be explored and institutional responsibility clarified. Private sector
willingness to be involved in this water and sanitation delivery process through its technical, management and
financial resources is a pre-requisite for its success; actual private sector participation will also be the test of the
success of this exercise.
The experience assembled with regard to the implementation of project rules, community and private sector
interest and ability to participate, will be evaluated and used to calibrate the program implementation guidelines
already developed for the National Small Towns Water and Sanitation Program. The lessons learnt will serve to
revise and upscale the pilot to the national level. Annex I describes the project development objectives and key
performance indicators.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
There is no current Country Assistance Strategy for Nigeria An Interim Country Strategy Note is
scheduled for Board discussion on May 11, 2000. (An earlier version of the Note was discussed informally at a
Board Technical Briefing on October 4, 1999.) In addition to updating the Board on the current country situation,
the Note highlights the development challenges and prospects faced by the country and outlines the transitional
strategy that the Bank Group proposes to follow while a full CAS is being prepared for future Board discussion.
This project, the first investment project to be prepared for Nigeria since 1993, is consistent with the Region's
support for the country's economic and governance renewal, and in particular its commitment to support the
country's poverty reduction efforts.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
i. General issues affecting the sector
(a)    Water Coverage in Small Towns. The majority of the population in small towns in Nigeria does not have
access to potable water and sanitation. In the 37 towns surveyed for access to water and sanitation, no more than 5%
of the population had access to water from protected boreholes while 13% used water from communal wells. The
gap left by public agencies is filled by private, informal arrangements for the delivery of water. These cover a range
of solutions such as tankers, privately-owned wells, and hand-carried water containers. The lack of and severe
deterioration in the water and sanitation infrastructure of small and medium towns has put a great strain on women
and adversely impacted the population's health. Further, residents of these towns end up paying unit rates for water
which are ten to twenty times higher than residents with access to public sector services pay. For example, per liter
charges in small towns in Akwa Ibom and Imo States range from I to 2.5 Naira, as compared to the 0.1 Naira/liter
charged by the water utility in Lagos city. The estimated financing requirements to meet existing deficits in services
depend on the targeted coverage ratio, service level, and the selected technology. To provide 20 liters per capita per
day to 50% of the small towns population requires an investment of approximately $800 rmillion over the next ten
years.
(b)    Sanitation Facilities. The survey of 37 small towns indicated that about 15% of the population did not have
access to safe excreta disposal facilities and that about 75 % use pit latrines. The situation throughout the country is
thought to be worse than this, with many facilities not operational or not well maintained. Schools, on the other
hand, appear to be well served. About 60 % of the people were shown to discharge their waste water directly to the



3
comparatively low since water is mostly hand-carried, drainage in many areas is poor, and good breeding conditions
for mosquitoes are created. Most residents have no organized way of dealing with their solid waste. Institutional
responsibility for sanitation is unclear, with several agencies in the three levels of government claiming some
responsibility.
There is little information about sanitation in the government's project document, and national strategy still needs to
evolve. The focus of the project with, at this stage, a low key approach to sanitation, reflects the current status of
government's strategy.
(c)    Institutional Structures. Responsibility for both water supply and sanitation in small and medium towns is
spread over all three tiers of government - federal, state, and local. The principal responsibility for water supply
rests with the States and their State Water Agencies, while for sanitation there is no clear prime responsibility among
the different agencies involved in the sub-sector. The many agencies involved in water and sanitation delivery have
overlapping and uncoordinated roles and functions. Each of these agencies employs its own implementation
strategies and in most cases services have been introduced with little or no community participation. No single
policy is enforced to coordinate and lend focus to the various efforts and inputs, though this is an issue which needs
urgent resolution.
(d)    Management of Water Facilities. The nmanagement of water facilities in the country suffers in general from
the lack of a commercial approach, and inadequate training or motivation of functionaries, and smaUl towns suffer
more than the large. Maintenance responsibilities rest with inadequately trained or motivated crews located in zonal
or state headquarters - their effectiveness is also constrained by the decline in the value of the Naira and high
inflation, which have increased the cost of spare parts and vehicles necessary to transport maintenance teams.
Further, the financing of operations and maintenance suffers from inadequate water tariffs and collection rates. As a
result, about 80 % of all water systems in smal towns are non-operational. The private sector is not involved in
maintenance of government provided systems either through private technicians or through supply of spare parts.
However, some privately provided systems have been known to exist for many years.
ii. Government Strategy.
Since 1997, the Government of Nigeria, under the leadership of the Office of the Director, Special Duties,
Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development (FMWRRD), has instituted a comprehensive
examination of the status of water supply and sanitation in small towns. The two-year process of examination has
included a comprehensive survey of 37 small towns, across the country, by international consultants, extensive
consultations at all levels of government, and with the Petroleum Trust Fund, the World Bank, UNDP, and
UNICEF. The government has also hosted several workshops including the National Conference on Water Sector
referm, and the National Council on Water Resources and Rural Development, and a series of discussions at the
community level. This investigation has resulted in the preparation of a Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation
Program (STWSSP) to increase coverage of water supply and sanitation in small towns with an estimated 35 milion
inhabitants. The government's stated program strategy rests on demand-based delivery of water supply and
sanitation, community ownership and management of water and sanitation systems, streamlined institutional
support, and increased private sector participation. The responsible ministry has now become simply the Federal
Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR), and the responsible division the Director, Water Supply and Quaity
Control.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The government's strategy for transfonning the smaUl towns water and sanitation delivery is articulated in
the STWSSP. The challenge now is to build institutional systems and implementation processes that reflect the
government's stated principles of demand responsiveness, private sector participation, community management of
water and sanitation systems and treatment of water as an economic good. The approach, in the context of Nigeria's
small towns, is new, and experience with it, both within and outside the country, limited. A learning phase
involving build-up and testing of institutional capacity and community and private sector participation is necessary
before the approach is implemented nation-wide. The government and the project team have agreed to test the
proposed methodology in about 12 small towns, in three states, before launching a nation-wide program. The
selected towns, in the states of Niger, Katsina and Ebonyi, are expected to have populations ranging in size from
5,000 to 50,000, covering a range of social, physical and hydrological conditions.



4
(a)    Technically feasible options for water supplv and user choice. In the past, the sector focus has been on
construction of facilities based on availability of government funds and design standards providing a high level of
service. The shift in focus towards demand-orientation and treatment of water as an economic good requires users
to make choices and support these choices with capital contributions and payment of operation and maintenance and
replacement costs in the future. As different technical options can have significantly different associated costs, it is
important that users comprehend the cost and service level combinations available before they make a selection.
Consequently, the preparation process includes not only the preparation of technically feasible options, but also
assessment of users valuations of different levels of service. These surveys are, in addition to the baseline surveys,
already completed for the program preparation, and will provide town specific indications of willingness-to-pay.
The information on indicated user valuations along with expected capital costs and expected user charges, and
details of consumer obligations and responsibilities after construction, will be shared with communities to ensure
informed choices.
The menu of options offered to communities includes choices ranging from protected communal wells to
surface water schemes with piped water distribution to communal water points. For each option, the community
will contribute a minimum of 10% of the capital costs. A per capita limit on the govenument's contribution will
ensure an equitable distribution of available government funds. The project promotes cost recovery, that is, user
charges will cover the full cost of operations, maintenance and replacement. For sustainability of these systems,
intensive and iterative consultations with households and communities will be undertaken to explain the financial
burden of alternative schemes. Extension and Promotion Teams (EPTs), composed of consultants and supplemented
by health and community development workers from local government offices, will work with water consumers to
explain and make this process operational. The EPTs will reach out to, and involve, both men and women in the
decision making process, so that women are involved as change agents and not simply beneficiaries.
(b)    Sanitation strategv. Sanitation planning and improvements in service will be addressed as pilot activities.
Key areas of focus will be excreta and sullage disposal as well as drainage. Households and community groups
participating in the water program will have to qualify for the subsidy for improved sanitation services. Criteria will
be established on the basis of which the identification and self selection of households and community for
participation in the program will be made. Sanitation requirements will be addressed through hygiene education,
training of individual artisans and small enterprises, construction and promotion of improved facilities. When
possible, and due to the tremendous scourge of HIV in Africa in general, AIDS awareness will be attached to
hygiene education efforts. The local private sector (mostly local artisans) will be strengthened under the project and
it will be encouraged to sell its abilities to the communities in order to improve current sanitary conditions. Hygiene
education, training and promotion activities will be supported by the EPTs through community organizations,
schools, religious institutions, as well as directly. Two of the major small towns will be assisted to develop
sanitation plans which will be used as the basis for developing sound institutional, policy, technical, social and
financial arrangements for development of work in the sub-sector.
Options of improved VIP, and in-house or external pour flush toilets will be offered under the project to
willing householders, and to WCAs for the communal facilities, with costs and other obligations (including the need
to contract the management of communal facilities) being explained as in the provision of water supply. A clearly
defined strategy based on private participation will be developed for the management of commnunity sanitation
facilities. Government contribution will not exceed 30%.
(c)    Streamlined institutional supMort. The effective implementation of the government's redefined support role
requires streamlined institutional arrangements in the small towns water supply and sanitation sector. There are at
present no readily identifiable institutions capable of delivering effective technical assistance to and channeling
funds for small towns' water and sanitation. A coordinated support structure, linking government personnel and
resources at the federal, state and local levels, into a single, streamlined effort is necessary for realizing the small
towns water supply and sanitation delivery strategy. A Federal STWSSP Steering Committee will be established
with responsibility for further developing the strategy, policy and program implementation, and resource
mobilization. A Federal Program Coordination Unit (FPCU) will liaise with its state counterparts and local
consumer bodies to facilitate efficient decision-making. The FPCU will be assisted in this by consultants who will
establish direct links with conununities through the EPTs. State Project Coordination Units (SPCUs), together with
the EPTs, will work with communities from project development to monitoring and evaluation of completed
projects. This is further detailed in Section C.



5
(d)    Communitv Mananement. It is intended that the administration of water and sanitation facilities be handed
to the legally established, representative user bodies at the community or town level. These bodies may in turn
contract management functions to private individuals, firms or non-governmental organizations (NGOs). It is
expected that the vested interest of users in functional water systems will increase accountability and lead to more
responsible management. As specific water management skills may not be available or may need upgrading and
strengthening, EPTs will assist Water Consumer Associations (WCAs) and town level Development Committees to
build management capacity to deal with the issues of revenue collection, and operation and maintenance. EPTs will
also assist WCAs in establishing contracts for delivery of these services.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown)
The major project component finances civil works and equipment for water supply and sanitation infrastructure in
the 12 participating small towns, including three with more complex systems. Outline specifications for feasible
technical options have been developed during project preparation and town specific designs and costs will be
prepared once the participating towns have chosen their preferred service options. Consulting services for project
development and implementation, management and engineering, and extension services are costed separately.
Because this pilot is also the initiation of a country-wide program and includes the establishment of central and state
functions, the cost of consulting services are proportionately high during these early years of the program. The
learning component includes promotional activities, institutional strengthening, training, and project monitoring and
evaluation.
- Water Supply systems construction      1             4.70        52         2.35      47,
- Sanitation improvement                               0.50          6        0.00       0
- Vehicles and Office equipment and     2              0.60         7         0.30       6
operating costs
- Workshops and promotional activities  4              0.45         5         0.40       8
- Overseas training and networking      4              0.10          1        0.10       2
- Management and engineering,           3              2.65        29         1.85      37
extension services, institutional
strengthening and project monitoring
and evaluation                     _
Total        9.00       100        5.00      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project supports the key policy reforms identified by the government in the small towns water and sanitation
sector and their further development and refinement. It implements and tests the government's demand-driven
approach allowing beneficiaries to determine the key elements of the project at the planning stage. The ownership
of assets as well as operations, maintenance, repair, and renewal of assets is transferred to users. As a corollary, the
government's role is redefined - it will now focus on policy formnulation and implementation and act as advisor
during project preparation and after assets transfer. The legal framework required to support water and sanitation
ownership and management by user bodies and the private sector will be put in place before hand-over of the first
system to its WCA. Greater participation of the private sector will be promoted. An institutional structure
supporting these changes will be established. At the consumer level the project tests the methods by which
consumers, men and women, can actively participate in deciding service levels, based on what they are willing to
pay.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of the project would be to support the testing and refining of the demand-oriented approach for
reform in the small towns water supply and sanitation sector. The overall impact of formulating a viable approach
will be felt by millions of smaU town inhabitants as the lessons from this project are upscaled under the STWSS
program. The immediate project benefits would be felt by approximately 170,000 residents, many from low-income
groups, of the twelve participating small towns in the form of improved access to water and sanitation facilities. The
project also targets large and small private sector operators, mechanics and artisans, spare part retailers, and
managers, all of whom are expected to benefit directly from the project. Women are specifically recognized in the
project and targeted to act as change agents and not just recipients of improved water and sanitation services.



8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a) Implementation period. The project would be implemented over four years (2000-2003).
(b) Implementation arrangements. The credit will be channeled through the Ministry of Finance. Operational
management of the project will be undertaken by the FPCU, in the FMWR. The unit will report to the Director of
Water Supply and Quality Control, FMWR, and will:
*     Manage the project and subsequent program
*     Develop national policy and strategy for the project
*     Prepare documentation to launch and promote the pilot project, including guidelines and procedures
*     Monitor the procurement process
*     Establish EPTs in conjunction with SPCU
*     Coordinate project activities with state and local governments
*     Coordinate with other sector stakeholders, including donors and NGOs
*     Disburse funds
*     Monitor and evaluate the project
The federal government acknowledges the urgent need to develop and expand capacity at the state and local levels
in order to enable an efficient and sustainable project development. The initial phase of the pilot would therefore
focus on establishment of the required state and local project coordinating and extension units.
At the state level, a State Project Coordination Unit (SPCU) will be established in the Ministry responsible for water
in each participating state, as the major coordinating link between the Water Consumer Associations (WCA) and the
federal level. Its long term objective will be to establish and maintain within its Ministry the necessary framework
to enable the communities to independently manage their potable water supplies and sanitation after ownership is
transferred to the communities. The SPCU will report to the state ministry on local administrative matters and to the
FPCU on program matters. The SPCU will be made up of an engineer (seconded from the state water agency and
with experience in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures), a community worker, and a financial officer
and will be supported by the EPTs. Their functions will include:
*     Identifying and helping select the towns for the pilot
*     Establishing state bank accounts for the project in Abuja
*     iEnsuring state counterpart fund contribution
*     Preparing and organizing surveys (WTP, sanitation etc.)
*     Participating in program to assess environmental impacts
*     Training LGA staff
*     Ensuring training/certification for artisans
*     :Planning policy at state level
*     Disseminating information
*     Administering procurement procedures and awarding contracts
*     Authorizing funds disbursement by FPCU
*     Providing technical support to WCAs
*     Coordinating project at state level
*     Participating in monitoring and evaluation
*     Identifying and collaborating with NGOs which can support the program
LGAs are expected to provide an important link between project organization and the communities, including
provision of health and community development staff to facilitate appropriate introduction of the project to the
WCAs.
The WCAs, established by the communities, are the key organizations responsible for the ownership and long-term
management of water supply and sanitation facilities constructed under the project. They are the driving force of the
process and will identify the type and levels of service to be supplied, based on a menu of options. The selection
process will include preliminary screenings and surveys regarding the technically feasible options available to the
communities.
The WCAs are expected to:
*     Register as a legal entity



7
*     Establish two separate bank accounts, for capital contribution, and for operation, maintenance and
replacement costs
*     Develop their own regulatory framework in line with project policy
*     Collect cash for initial investment, O&M and replacement costs
*     Identify and contract personnel or organizations for operation and maintenance
*     Participate in procurement procedures
*     Participate in monitoring and evaluation
*     Disburse WCA funds with SPCU approval
The EPTs, assembled by the Consultants to the FPCU, will coordinate and work with the SPCUs, WCAs, and the
Small Town Development Comnuittees. The FPCU will be responsible for integrating the work of the SPCUs,
EPTs, and project consultants.
The importance of including women, to the extent possible, in all teams has been highlighted. The oversight role
will be exercised by FMWR through a Steering Committee including representatives from the Federal Ministries of
Finance, Health (Primary Health Care, Infectious Diseases, Health Planning), Women's Affairs, and the National
Planning Commission and State Commissioners responsible for water resources.
(c) Procurement and Disbursement Goods and services financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines. The FMWR has extensive and successful experience in procuring civil works and
consulting contracts under the National Water Rehabilitation Project (NWRP, Ln. 3322-UNI, ongoing), as well as in
Bank disbursement procedures. The project components not financed by the IDA credit will be procured in
accordance with national regulations. Procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency, is
presented in Annex 6. The project elements, and their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table B of Annex 6. An assessment of financial management capacity in Nigeria has not
been carried out. Hence Nigeria is not considered to be ready for full-scale procedures related to the Loan
Administrative Change Initiative (LACI). The IDA Credit of US$5.0 million will finance 55% of the total project
costs. Allocation of the proceeds of the Credit is indicated in Annex 6. Disbursement will be made on the basis of
statement of expenditure (SOE) for contracts and purchase orders with an individual value less than those requiring
IDA's prior review. In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the project, the
Government of Nigeria will open a Special Account in a commercial bank into which funds in the amount of
US$600,000 will be deposited from the IDA Credit. Funds in the Special Account will be available to cover only
eligible expenditures under the project.
(d) Project administration, accounts, and audits (refer to Annex 6): The FPCU will have oversight responsibility for
project accounts and will utilize a financial management system that complies with international accounting
standards. The capacity of the FPCU accounting unit to implement the required financial management system is
being established to enable it to function fully by the date of Credit effectiveness. Procedures in use by the NWRP
have been documented and reviewed by IDA. The required professional staff will be appointed by end-December
1999. The financial management system to be used by the project will be capable of: (i) recording and reporting
reliably the financial transactions of the project and any assets or liabilities associated with such transactions
resulting from project income and expenditures; (ii) providing on a periodic and timely basis Project Financial
Statements that show the source and application of funds, integrating a reconciliation of the special account and a
substantiation of payments made on the basis of SOEs; (iii) enabling the timely preparation and submission of
audited annual reports, within 6 months of the close of the fiscal year, that comply with intemational auditing
standards and which provide: an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting and internal control environment
under which project expenditures are made; recommendation for improvement in the form of a management letter,
an independent determination as to whether the PIU has maintained proper accounting records and a verification that
expenditures submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing; and an opinion as to the reasonableness of balances
and transactions reported. The SPCUs will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures at the state
level, and keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices. The necessary training will be
provided by the FPCU professional accounting staff.
FinancialArrangements. The financial arrangements for the project put a .strong emphasis on ensuring that funds
mobilized are disbursed through the most efficient and secure route while ensuring proper accountability. Contracts
will be awarded (after FPCU clearance) by the SPCU with WCA as counter-signatory (except for consultants
appointed at Federal level). State contributions of funds will be deposited by deduction from the Federation
Account into state accounts established by the States in banks of their choice in Abuja. WCA contributions will be



8
deposited into their accounts at the community level. The communities' regular contributions will be set to maintain
accounts with a positive balance.
Release of Funds. The release of funds from both state and federal counterpart fund accounts for payment to
contractors will be handled by the FPCU upon state and local authorization (signatures of SPCU and WCA are
required for contractors' payments). The WCA contribution will be disbursed directly by the WCA with agreement
from the SPCU. Payments to consultants appointed at federal level will be disbursed directly by the FPCU.
Disbursement of the IDA funds will be by the FPCU either by direct payment or through the Special Account which
will be replenished by IDA upon receiving the proper documentation based on contract value.
The proposed flow of funds is illustrated in the diagram below:
Flow of Funds
Fed Go   JA                        nt
A  counis                 Ba. n
_T FFMrct to t
ESit G-ovt.onratE 
SWe~Oe Ac cuts 
Financial management procedures at the federal and state levels will be defined in detail by the professional staff
appointed to support the FPCU, based on procedures in use for NWRP. The procedures will address the following:
(a) preparation and finalization of the financial statement reporting format, content and frequency; ( b) organization
of the accounting and finance unit: i.e. reporting relationships, segregation of duties; responsibilities and position
descriptions; required competence of finance staff; (c) the internal controls and the planning and budgeting
mechanism; and (d) the administrative arrangements and structure within the project; the procurement of goods and
services; the disbursement of funds: authority for signing checks; expense vouchers etc and preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank
(e) Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) arrangements. A project-specific M&E system will serve as the key project
impact and performance monitoring tool. This will also ensure prompt response to problems and dissemination of
lessons as they are learnt. Besides operational indicators for different phases of the project such as number of
WCAs formed, acceptance of project rules by consumers, number of water systems under construction and
completed, the main performance indicators reflect the willingness and success of communities in taldng
responsibility for their water supply and sanitation systems and may be grouped as follows: number of operating
water supply and sanitation systems after assets transfer to WCAs, financial health of community managed water
systems, and planned extensions to the water and sanitation systems. Other indicators include detailed progress
benchmarks covering physical works, procurement and disbursement, and financial management. The Health
Management Information System, prepared under the Bank assisted Health Systems Fund will be used to provide
baseline community health information to monitor improvements. The communities and the EPTs will be involved



9
in this process from the very beginning. The FPCU will provide quarterly Project Management Reports to IDA for
review, sumnnarizing implementation progress, results from the monitoring system and utilization of project funds.
An independent consultant will be appointed, reporting directly to the FMWR, to take responsibility for M&E.
Collaboration will also be established with a local university and the National Water Resources Institute for the
monitoring and evaluation of the pilot during implementation and for follow-up after completionm
The FPCU will be responsible for collecting information about project activities, results and lessons learned. This
will increase awareness of program objectives, focus, rules and how to participate in the program. The FPCU will
be responsible for incorporating knowledge gained from other initiatives within the country to reforrn water supply
and sanitation management.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Assistance through a traditional Bank Investment project. Financing and technical assistance in Nigeria has
generally focussed on water systems serving large cities and towns, where scale economies could be realized. Some
of these projects have included rural water supply and sanitation components. Small towns systems have, however,
not been part of Bank financing and have received sporadic support from federal and state governments. This
support has followed traditional, supply-driven provision of water and sanitation systems, where water was not
treated as an economic good. These systems have proved non-viable, and it is not defensible to continue in the old
style. In addition it is not yet known how delivery of these services in a truly demand-responsive way can be
implemented; there has not been a comprehensive strategy for small towns; and there is the need for learning and
piloting approaches. For these reasons, the traditional approach has been rejected.
If communities accept the idea that water supply and sanitation services should respond to what users want and are
willing to pay for, viable systems can be created and sustained. The government's strategy for small towns water
and sanitation delivery rests on the principles of demand responsiveness, community management, and treating
water as an economic good. These principles have emerged as a result of testing in several corners of the world, and
are now to be tested and applied in the Nigerian context. The project design focuses on presenting technical options
to users, and assisting them in deciding the levels of service they want, and are willing to pay for. In the small
towns surveyed, consumers are currently paying ten to twenty times the charges for traditional public water supply,
and are willing to pay as much (or more) for reliability, quality and access. These insights provide new institutional
design options for formerly non-viable water and sanitation systems. The project design has built in flexibility so
that lessons leamt can be incorporated within both the project and the subsequent program by modifying project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Nigeria was assisted by the Bank and UNDP in the mid 1980s in the formulation of a national policy to define a
strategy for investing in rural water supply; this was accompanied by small demonstration projects which
successfully tested the strategy. Subsequent Bank lending in the water sector was geared to 5 projects for large
urban systems, including one project (First Multi State Water Supply) with a small rural water supply (RWS)
component which set out to implement the country's RWS strategy based on full community participation and
demand responsiveness. In addition, UNICEF signed an agreement with the Government in 1996 to continue its
support in implementing the country's rural water supply and sanitation strategy on a sustainable basis; UNICEF's
involvement is ongoing and will support the initiatives of the project, particularly related to sanitation.



10
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed                     Kaduna Water Supply                    S                 U
Anambra Water Supply                   S                U
Bomo Water Supply                      S                 U
Lagos State Water Supply               S                 U
National Water Rehabilitation          S                 S
Multi State Water Su!  1               S                 S
Other development agencies        Akwa lbom State Water Suppyt
AfDB                              Water Quality Laboratory       .               
Bauchi State Water Supply
Plateau State Water Supply         ..
Niger State Water Supply                                  -
_____ ____ _____ ____ _____ ____ Cross Rivers  State  Water Supply  "'~'
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design revolves around community selection of the level of service with its associated costs, community
management of facilities, and cost recovery - this approach to delivering potable water supply and sanitation to the
population in small towns is expected to lead to the creation of sustainable water and sanitation systems. It is also
expected to lead to, in some cases, increased private sector involvement in operations, management, and, possibly,
financing of water systems and sanitation. The incorporation of the outlined design features is based on lessons
learnt from project experience in other West African countries such as Ghana, Burkina Faso, Mauritania, Senegal,
and other parts of the world (Vietnam, Sri Lanka) regarding service provision in low-income communities and
where government resources are constrained. There has also been substantial analytical work within the Bank with
willingness-to-pay studies. These analyses show that users are willing to pay for reliability, quality, and access, and
are often purchasing water at prices several times higher than those charged by conventional public supply systems.
The operationalizing of the project design and its successful implementation needs to be adjusted to the Nigerian
context and institutions. Key economic, financial, organizational and technological rules will be refined during this
project and experience gained during subproject implementation will be fed back into the project and the successor
STWSSP. The monitoring and evaluation process will evaluate which of the rules worked and which did not work
and why, and thus continually fine-tune the project design during implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The initiative for the STWSSP has come from the Government of Nigeiia The principles underlying the proposed
strategy for small towns water sector reform, and the proposal to combine sanitation improvement with water supply
reform, have also been developed by the government, in collaboration with the Bank. The project development
objective, therefore, is fully consistent with the govemment's interest in planning and management of water services
at the local level, and its concern in validating the approach through a pilot project. The FMWR has already
provided office facilities and logistic support for start of the pilot project. The diligence with which the government
has undertaken project preparation and committed funds to pilot the program concept is testimony to the national
government's commitment. The three state govermments have committed their counterpart contribution to be
deducted from the States' Federation Account, and have each nominated 12 towns for consideration for
participation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has not invested in Nigeria since 1993. This project will initiate cooperation between the Bank and
Nigeria after a hiatus of almost six years, and signal the Bank's willingness to renew its partnership in Nigeria's
development. The Bank's cooperation, shared understanding of the need for reform, and of the political changes in
Nigeria will contribute significantly to the productivity of the country's efforts. At the project level, the Bank brings
its experience and multi-disciplinary support at both the design and implementation phases, and also it brings added
confidence to prospective private sector partners. There is also value added to the Bank's own learning and



1i
experience in implementing a flexible project design. Bank participation is also likely to encourage donor support to
the nation-wide program.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= 26%
The major benefits of this project are improved water services to beneficiaries in 12 small towns. These include
direct user benefits from water consumed and consumer surplus for users who now use less effective and more
costly alternatives (such as buying water from vendors, relying on rivers etc.). The project offers improvements to
small town residents who express a willingness to participate and the improvements are scaled to a level of service
and a tariff which have been agreed with the beneficiaries. Thus, it is highly probable that user benefits calculated
on the basis of willingness to pay, and associated consumer surplus, will be realized. In the initial 12 towns, based
on conservative assumptions the NPV at 15% discount rate for the investments is US $1.3 million. The results are
robust as shown by sensitivity tests of possible reductions in willingness to pay, and increases in operating costs.
Further information is provided in Annex 4.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
The financial implications of all available options will be presented to communities at the beginning. Communities
will contribute a minimum of 10% to capital costs of water supply in accordance with their expressed willingness
and ability to pay. Government will pay the remainder as a grant, 300/o by the state and up to 60% by the Federal
Government/IDA. The maximum Government/IDA contribution will be set initially at N 2000 per person, sufficient
to finance 90% of the basic level of service; for a higher level of service, the community contribution as a
percentage will increase. At N 2000 per person maximum Government contribution, communities will need to pay
about 35% of the cost of a motorized borehole supply with simple distribution system. The impact of the ceiling in
Government contribution will be continuously monitored and adjusted during the pilot if seen to be necessary. The
community contribution will have to be made in three equal amounts, first before detailed planning is commenced,
second before construction is commenced, and third before hand-over of the system to them. WCAs and households
will be expected to pay 70% of the cost of sanitation facilities.
Communities will have to pay the full costs of O&M and replacements. They will need to demonstrate their ability
to afford these costs by depositing one month's estimated costs in their separate operational bank account by the
same dates as each of the three capital contributions. After operation commences, consumers will have to pay
predetermined amounts for water use to cover regular O&M costs and to ensure that finance is available for
replacement of pumps and other equipment and civil works at the end of their estimated life. The community's
expressed ability and willingness to do this will determine first, whether or not they participate in the project and
secondly the level of service that they purchase. Options will be provided to the communities, to pay per month, per
day, per bucket, per visit to communal sanitation facilities, or other, for them to choose which suits them best;
preliminary indication are that payment for water by the bucket is most acceptable and reliable.
A risk exists that communities will not continue to pay after systems are handed over. This will be monitored during
the project, and the responsible state ministry will have the task of continued monitoring and promulgation of results
thereafter. Support will be provided to the communities by the EPTs to access suitable financial management skills
to assist them in this respect. However the concept of community ownership is built on the concept that people will
care for what they own, need and are responsible for. In Nigeria, community owned facilities such as the village
grinding mill have been shown to operate for many years, and this project is designed around the concept of building
on what is known to work.
3. Technical:
The project will subsidize civil works and equipment for improved water supplies for about 12 small towns in
Nigeria. It will also assure on the basis of clearly defined eligibility criteria, the construction of on-site sanitation in
participating towns. Negative environmental impacts that might result from the increase of waste water will be
mitigated. A menu of options for water supply systems and sanitation facilities, with indicative costing, has been
prepared and is presented in Annex 2. Options for water supply range from simple point sources with hand pumps,
to motorized bore holes with or without distribution systems, to surface water systems with simple distribution
systems and community water points. For sanitation, on site excreta disposal is proposed, together with hygiene



12
education and promotion of improved waste water and sullage disposal. The technical design standards underlying
the table are based on proven local and international experience. Detailed engineering designs of components have
been prepared and system designs will be completed when the communities have selected their preferred service
level.
One of the objectives of the pilot is to test the scope for, and modalities of private participation in the water sector.
For this, participating states will be asked to identify one town each where there is an existing piped distribution
system which the State is prepared to transfer to a WCA and where the WCA is prepared to comply with project
rules relating to cost sharing and responsibility for operation. The scheme could be either functional with
performance difficulties or defunct for technical or financial reasons. For these schemes, the private sector and the
WCA will be encouraged to contract operations and management of the system. The ownership of the assets would
be transferred to the local community, who would be assisted in contract formulation and award of the management
contract to a private sector firm, either local or foreign. It is proposed that the prospective operator be in charge of
quality control during the rehabilitation phase. During implementation, engineering consultants will assist in the
supervision of construction.
During project implementation, the private sector will also be encouraged to contract with additional communities to
provide water supply facilities and operate them under contract to the communities.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Responsibility for the completed water supply and communal sanitation facilities will rest
with the WCAs who own them, as discussed under the Implementation Arrangements section. Continuing
monitoring and support to the WCAs will be available through the SPCU which will become over time a fully
integrated part of the state government ministry.
b. Project management: The FMWR and the FPCU will retain responsibility for policy development and
planning, capacity building and promotion of reform in the water supply and sanitation sector. During project
implementation, the FPCU and their consultants will provide technical assistance on an on-going basis. The
consultants, recriited by the FPCU, along with the SPCUs, will be responsible also for assembling the EPTs. The
EPTs will be the communicators and facilitators at the communuity level.
5. Social:
A recent socio-economic survey of 37 small towns indicates that barely 5% of the population has access to
water from protected boreholes while 13% use water from communal wells. Sanitation facilities are also
inadequate. This project thus potentially will assist a large part of the population in the small towns involved in the
project, including the poor. The project requires that communities pay at least 10% of capital costs and all of O&M
costs. As a range of technical options (with a corresponding range of prices) will be offered, poor communities
should be able to join the project. The project monitoring system will help to ensure that poorer communities
actually are accessing the project.
There are clear, differential gender roles in water supply and sanitation in Nigeria, as in many other
countries. Women are in charge of water and sanitation within the household. As they are the main collectors and
users of water (the front line consumers), involving them actively in the project is essential to facilitating the
demand-based approach and thus promoting sustainability. A women's representative will be elected by the
community women to the WCA Executive Committee. As needed, separate meetings will be held with community
women, to ensure they have received information on the project and to discuss health and hygiene education.
Choice of technology, project sites, and operation of the water points and sanitation facilities will be decided
through discussions with community women and men. Small-scale women entrepreneurs will be encouraged to
participate in planning and construction phase activities. Gender training will be included in the capacity building
activities for govemnment units involved in support to WCAs.
As noted in the Project Description, learning will play an important role in this pilot project. A
participatory M&E process will be used to ensure that all stakeholder groups and subgroups are involved
appropriately in this learning process throughout the project. Their input will be used to guide the project so that
any social issues which arise can be addressed quickly. Community indicators will supplement a standard list of
indicators developed during project preparation to collect baseline information and monitor project performance.



13
Lessons from this participatory learning process will be used to continually fine-tune project design in preparation
for the proposed nation-wide progranL
6. Environmental assessment:          Environmental Category    [JA    [X] B      U C
During the survey of 37 small towns, localized environmental assessments were made, indicating that
waste water and solid waste disposal arrangements were inadequate. The project itself wil, to a large extent, focus
on water supply and sanitation, with consequent contributions to improving health. It is not envisaged that the
volume of waste water will increase to a great extent from what the situation is today, but focus will be on quality
and availability. For all service levels considered under the project water will be hand carried into the households
with little increase in sullage, or wastewater generation. However communities will be shown how to deal safely
with their waste water, demonstration facilities provided, and hygiene education provided to underscore the
importance of proper disposal. The negative environmental impact is therefore considered to be insignificant All
construction contracts will include the requirement to comply with guidelines related to minimizing water related
health risks and available educational materials will be used to sensitize contractors. In towns where sullage is a
problem, assistance will be given in planning improved sullage disposal for the town as a whole. SPCUs will be
given assistance under the project to develop ability at state level to undertake environmental assessment of future
water supply and sanitation developments under the program. Where waste water flows are increased communities
will be given assistance through the EPTs to ensure that they are adequately managed.
7. Participatory approach:
The STWSSP is based on a participatory approach to development In each small town, the local leaders
are first contacted, then meetings held with a larger part of the communities. Later discussions are held with women
groups and different household heads who are all stakeholders in the program. The message is that development
will be based on their demand. The project staff first introduces the project, then explains the eligibility criteria for
participation. Subsequently, the users decide which options and choices will be used. It is the objective of the EPTs
and project staff who travel to the small towns together with community development officers from the local
governments, that people should make an infonned choice of the services that fit their needs best and which they are
able to sustain. The Program Steering Committee will include representatives from the Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Health, Federal Ministry of Women's Affairs, and National Planning Commission. The primary
beneficiaries of the pilot project can be listed as below:
Beneficiaries/          CON                COL, IMP               COL,IMP
community groups
NGOs and private sector   CON              COL, IMP               COL, IMP
Academic institutions   COL                COL                    COL
State Government        COL                COL                    COL
Local Government        CON                CON                    CON
Other donors            CON                CON                    CON
CON= consultation COL= collaboration 1MP= implementation
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability benefits relies on five key factors:
(i)    ownership of the systems by the stakeholders
(ii)   the full participation of stakeholders in the design, implementation, and operation of the project;
(iii)   clarity in funding rules, particularly in regard to community, federal, and state funding;
(iv)   flexibility in technical options and related costs, to meet varying community service requirements in a
sustainable manner; and
(v)    involvement of the private sector, to the extent possible, in operations, management, maintenance and
supply of equipment and parts for the facilities.



14
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
1. Tested model is replicable and adopted by  S           1. Flexibility in project design and
small towns in other states                               ongoing monitoring to continually modify
project rules.
2. Extensive information dissemination of
project and project benefits are planned.
2. Community contribution for operation,  S               Monitoring by SPCU and state ministry
maintenance and replacements continues into               and publicizing of results. Education of
the future and is properly managed.                       WCAs.
3. Availability of funding to expand tested  S            Regular consultative meetings will be held
model to non-pilot states                                 to share experiences and work out
consensus among sector agencies,
governnent departments, and donors.
4. Private sector technical, managerial and  S            Available local skills will be
financial skills are available                            complemented by promotion, training, and
ongoing technical assistance
5. Community acceptance of commercial    M                Extension of public awareness services.
contracts for water supply.
6. Institutional infrastructure remains in place   M      Extensive information dissemination of
beyond the pilot phase and is replicated in other         project and project benefits are planned.
states.
From Components to Outputs                       _
1. Continued government support for proposed   S         Regular consultative meetings with
sector reform.                                            Federal government will be held to work
out consensus and maintain support.
2. Timely counterpart funding as budgeted.  M             State counterpart funds will be by
deduction at source. First quarter Federal
contribution required before effectiveness,
and continued contributions will be
monitored closely.
3. Timely community contributions as     S                Proof of deposit of the community's
committed.                                                capital contribution is a prerequisite for
pilot participation.
4 Timely implementation of procurement.  M                FPCU and SPCU have considerable
experience, which will be supported by
strong in-country supervision team.
5. Community adoption of new institutional  S             Extensive information dissemination of
model for water supply and sanitation provision           project and project benefits are planned:
6. Private sector interest and ability to  M              Current indications are good. The
participate                                               opportunities will be extensively
promoted.
7. Timely regulatory and legislative changes    M         Current government is supportive.
needed to facilitate institutional reform after           Continuing liaison with FMWRRD is
new Govermnent in place.                                  proposed.
8. Sufficient attention paid to sanitation  M             Extensive information dissemination of
component                                                 project and project benefits are planned.
9. Findings of M&E component adequately fed  M            Continued monitoring. Inclusion of a
back into project design.                                 university in M&E program to improve
dissemination.



15
10. Establishment and operation of federal and   N        Condition of effectiveness. Federal unit
state coordination units for technical support            already established.
and facilitation of flow of funds.
11. Timely establishment of financial    N                Terms of reference prepared. Financial
management procedures.                                    management procedures to be based on
modified NWRP procedures. Professional
Financial Manager to be engaged by
startup of project.
Overall Risk Rating                      S                The Learning and Innovation Loan
instrument allows the government and the
Bank to test methodologies and political
will before scaling up design. The
potential returns from successful
I implementation are very high
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No significant controversies are foreseen. As this is an initiating project for a major country-wide program,
consultant costs are proportionately high. The proportion will decrease considerably as the pilot transforms into the
country-wide progranm
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Disbursement Conditions for Each State:
1.     Subsidiary Agreement signed between the state and federal governments.
2.     SPCU and EPT established and prospective list of 8 towns submitted.
3.     Agreement far at-source deduction of 30% contribution to the project costs in monthly sums each
of a minimum of $30,000 equivalent and state bank account opened.
4.     The first quarter Federal contribution of $110,000 equivalent deposited in federal project account.
5.     Professional financial manager appointed for FPCU.
2. Other:
1.     Quarterly Federal contribution to project costs in 10 amounts as required to finance the Federal
component each of $110,000 equivalent, deposited to the federal project account.
2.     The project will be implemented in accordance with defined rules regarding ownership and
management of water supplies by the relevant WCAs.
3.     A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established by Sept. 30, 2000 to monitor project impact,
including health impact.
4.     Financial management is carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines.
5.     SPCUs will participate in awareness and training programs related to strengthening their capacity
to carry out enviromnental assessments of activities related to the program.
6.     Construction contracts will include the requirement to comply with guidelines related to
minimizing water related health risks.
H: Readiness for Implementation
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The Financial Management Procedures currently being used for the NWRP have been reviewed by the Bank and
found of satisfactory quality but are being modified and streamlined for the project. TOR for the professional
financial manager (PFM) have been prepared and the PFM was appointed February 2000, to allow timely
establishment of the project's financial management system and procedures.



16
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader: David Henley                                     t /4  (
Sector Manager: Letitia A. Obeng
Country Director: Yaw Ansu



17
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
Program Related Goal:                                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
Increased access to water &   Level of access to clean water  Reports by extension         Improvements in water
sanitation services in small   and sanitation facilities.     workers.                     supply and sanitation
towns in Nigeria as a                                                                      with increased private
contribution to improved                                      Annual sector report         participation assist in
public health                                                                              poverty alleviation.
Health Management
Increased private sector    Increased engagement of private    Information System.
development.                sector in provision of water
supply and sanitation services.  Bank Mission reports
Project development                                                                         (Objectives to goal)
objectives:
1. A national Small Towns    A national water and sanitation  Bank mnission reports.       Program is
Water Supply and Sanitation  program acceptable to the                                     implemented as
Program developed based on  government and the Bank.                                       designed.
the results of the pilot
project                                                                                    Government integrates
small towns water
program with rural and
2. Improved private sector    Increasing use of competing                                  urban water programs.
participation in the delivery   individuals and commercial
of water supply and         firms in pilot states.                                         Government
sanitation in small towns.                                                                 willingness to foster
private sector and
reduce government role
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  continues.



18
Outputs:                   1.1 Water supply and sanitation    Pilot towns compared with a   (Outputs to Objective)
systems:                        control group of small towns,
1. Community based model                                  with other pilot towns.     Tested system is
for water and sanitation  At least 12 WCAs established by                             acceptable to
delivery in small towns   end 2000.                       Progress reports from FPCU   communities, is
developed and tested,                                      and SPCU.                  replicable and is
including for private sector   At least 12 WCAs having made                           adopted by small towns
participation              10% contribution and 3 months   Periodic customer surveys &   in other states.
O&M costs by mid 2001.          evaluations.
Community
At least 12 WCAs accepting      Periodic operational reports   contribution for
responsibility for completed    from WCAs and EPTs.        operation, maintenance
systems by mid 2002.                                       and replacements
Reports from Bank          continues into the
At least 12 WCAs contributing  supervision and evaluation    future and is properly
monthly O&M costs by end        miissions.                 managed.
2002.
Funding available for
1.2 Service management in                                  up-scaling tested model
place for 12 WCAs by mid                                   to non-pilot states.
2002.
Availability of
1.3 Private operators and firms                            minimum capacity in
active in larger water supply                              the private sector.
system operation - 3 by mid
2002.                                                      Community acceptance
of conunercial contracts
for water supply.
2. Institutional structure  2.1 Project coordination units                            Institutional
established at federal and  established at federal level by                           infrastructure remains
state level to support small   July 1999 and in 3 States by                           in place beyond the
town water and sanitation  Sept 2000.                                                 pilot phase and is
provision in Nigeria                                                                  replicated in other
2.2 Consultants for project                                states.
support hired by May 2000.
2.3 Extension and promotion
teams established - 3 by Sept.
2000.
3.Learming & dissemination   3.1 Monitoring and evaluation
process established to link    system in place
lessons of pilot and other
projects to national policy    3.2 Rules and procedures for
development.              national program developed
3.1 Dissemination and
consultation undertaken



19
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                                  (Components to
components: (see Annex 2   component)                                               Outputs)
for project description)
1. Model Development
1. 1 Water supply systems.   *New motorized water supply  Project progress reports  1. Continued
systems,                                               government support for
*Rehabilitated water supply    Bank mission reports       proposed sector reform.
systems
.Handpump systems   S4.70m     Annual project work        Timely counterpart
programs                  funding as budgeted.
1.2 Improved sanitation   *VIP latrines                                             Timely community
*Pour-flush toilets                                       contributions as
*Public toilets                                           committed.
*Sanitation plans   $0.50m
1.3 Field extension services  *Establishment of WCAs                                Timely implementation
eCommunity consultation                                   of procurement
.Information management
*Willingness to pay studies                               Community adoption of
eSupport to WCAs                                          new institutional model
*Health and hygiene education                             for water supply and
SO.60m                               sanitation provision
1.4 Design and supervision   *Engineering consultants                               Private sector interest
$0.40m                               and ability to
participate
1.5 PSP promotion         .Awareness promotion                                      Timely regulatory and
*Workshops                                                legislative changes
*Private Sector support                                   needed to facilitate
*Action plan preparation                                  institutional reform
$0.30m
1.6 Training             *Training of sanitation artisans                           Sufficient promotion
and private sector                                        and assistance to
$00Sm                               artisans/private sector
in selling sanitation
arrangements.
2. Learning component
2.1 Monitoring and        *Consultants, universities                                2. Findings of M&E
evaluation                                     $0.20m                               component adequately
fed back into project
2.2 Promotion of          -Awareness program                                        design.
community awareness of the                     $0.20m
program
2.3 Implementation manual   *Revised manuals    $0.10m
updates



20
__ ~~il
2.4 Training and networking  * International excursions for
program managers
* Communication systems
$Q.15m
2.5 Design national program * Consultants for program
design and documentation
$0.lOm
2.6 Workshops             * Travel and facilitation
$0.10m
3. Project management                                                                 3.
structure                                                                             Establishment and
operation of federal and
3.1 Program management    *TA at Federal level                                        state coordination units
eTA at State level                                         for technical support
$0.50m                                and facilitation of flow
of funds
3.3 Logistical support     *Vehicles
*Office preparation
*Office equipment
*Operating costs
$0.60m
3.4 Project procurement   *Procurement services
and financial services    *Project financial management
*Funds disbursement
*Audit
$0.20m
3.5 Strengthen state                 serces
financial management                            SO.20m
capacity
eConsulting services
3.6 Strengthen state                            $0.10m
capacity for
environmental assessment



21
Annex 2: Project Description
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
1.     Background
About one third of the approximately 105 million people in Nigeria live in 2000-3000 small towns and
urban settlements with a population of between 5,000 and 50,000 people or more. Many 'small towns" are dense
settlements without developed infrastucture such as roads, electricity, water supply, markets etc. Despite the sizable
concentration of the nations' population in small towns, these areas have been overlooked within the water sector.
The government has tended to focus on easily identified rural and urban areas, tending to omit from water
development strategies and policies the settlements which fall under the "small towns" category.
This omission has been recognized at the Federal level where the Office of the Director, Special Duties, in
the FMWRRD (now Director, Water Supply and Quality Control, FMWR), has taken the initiative to exarninethe
status of water supply and sanitation in small towns and to plan the way forward. The two year long process of
examination has included a comprehensive survey of thirty-seven small towns by international consultants,
extensive consultations at all levels of government, and the PTF, consultations with the World Bank, UNDP, and the
UNICEF, workshops including the National Conference on Water Sector reform, and the National Council on Water
Resources and Rural Development, and a series of discussions at the community level. This investigation has
resulted in the government preparing a Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation program (STWSSP) which aims
at increasing the coverage of water supply and sanitation in the small towns of Nigeria.
The background work completed for program preparation reveals the extent of decline in the delivery of
water and sanitation services in small towns, and the need for immediate and urgent attention. A household socio-
economic survey conducted in the thirty-seven small towns shows that barely 5% of the population has access to
water from protected boreholes while 13% use water from communal wells. This level of water coverage is lower
than that for urban or even rural areas. A separate survey of the water facilities in these towns indicates that though
the government has in the past invested in motorized supplies, close to 80% of surveyed schemes are out of
operation. In addition, many unfinished water supplies were found which had been abandoned at different stages of
completion. The broken down and abandoned water supplies represent a large public investment which has not
resulted in any benefit for the people. It also indicates that past Government efforts to improve the water supply
situation in small towns were not only limited in size but have also not been sustainable. The survey of 37 towns
also indicated that about 15% of the population has no access to safe excreta disposal facilities, though generally the
situation in the country is thought to be worse than this and at any time up to 50% of facilities are not operational.
Residents of small towns have no organized way of dealing with their solid waste, and in addition up to 60%
discharge their sullage water directly to the environment without consideration of insect breeding or other harmful
impact. Because of the clear need to improve sanitation and hygiene education to gain the full benefits of improved
water supply, sanitation improvements will be combined with water supply in the program.
In view of the above findings, the govermment has sought to develop a new strategy for water and sanitation
delivery to small towns. The basis of this strategy is demand responsiveness and commnunity decision making.
Indeed, demand responsiveness has emerged in several countries as a new approach designed to assist communities
willing to contribute towards the cost of providing services and ready to sustain the schemes through ownership and
management of the facilities. The govemnment recognizes that the concept of community management is a relatively
recent development and that there is insufficient experience for decision makers to set policies and strategies on a
national or even regional basis. The government therefore seeks to examine various implementation options on a
smal scale, to refine them and build local capacity to implement them. Towards this end the govermnent has
requested World Bank financial assistance to support a pilot project to test, leam from, and provide feedback into its
planned nationwide STWSSP.
2.     Pilot Project
The objectives of the project are to: (i) assist efforts to facilitate access to safe water and adequate
sanitation by residents of small towns in Nigeria through the design and implementation of pilot water supply and
sanitation facilities in selected small towns in project states; and to (ii) determine the most efficient mechanism for
delivery of sustainable schemes to be replicated later on throughout Nigeria.



22
The project consists of three parts:
(i)    Promotion of ownership and community participation in the provision of water supply &
sanitation (WS&S)facilities:
*  Carrying out of extension activities aimed at sensitizing water users in selected small town
communities as to the appropriate technical, financial, organizational and institutional arrangements
required to foster the development of sustainable WS&S facilities well-suited to the needs of the said
users as well as to their ability to pay;
*  Assisting small town communities in the establishment of their WCAs and building up capacity within
the project states to manage efficiently the operations of WS&S facilities through the acquisition of
technical advisory services and carrying out of workshops and other training activities.
(i)    Design and Construction of Pilot Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities
* Carrying out of detailed engineering studies required for the construction of pilot WS&S facilities;
*  Construction of pilot WS&S facilities in selected small towns.
(iii)   Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Support to FPCU and the SPCUs to enable them to carry out their activities under the project;
*  Collection and analysis of all pertinent data derived from carrying out the activities referred to under
Parts (i) and (ii) above, including the carrying out of socio-economic surveys, dissemination of results
among all concerned parties, and incorporation of the lessons learned into the design of the nation-
wide small towns WS&S program;
The pilot will be implemented in approximately 12 towns in three states, and the implementation is planned
to be completed over a period of three years. It is anticipated that within three years new sources of finance,
possibly from local and bilateral sources, will have been identified, which will permit the expansion of the project
into a full scale nationwide program, over an estimated 20 year period.
Project preparation will commence with project promotion, establishment of the infrastructure for project
implementation, and mobilization of selected towns. The pace of progress in the various towns will be set by the
response of the communities and the time needed to accumulate the necessary financial contributions. This implies
that different communities will be at different phases of the project preparation and implementation cycle during
project implementation, providing opportunity to learn from the early starters and to improve the process for the
other towns. Leaming and information sharing will be a continuous process, and rules and guidelines are expected to
be altered or modified according to what works and what does not. This entire experience will feed into refining and
finalizing the implementation guidelines to support the full scale program.
The States participating in the pilot project have been chosen by the govermnent and the Bank, and have
indicated their willingness to participate and contribute their 30 % share of the project costs. These States will now
select and nominate eight towns each, for inclusion in the project. The selection will be based on criteria developed
during the preparation phase; the criteria are designed to choose towns with the highest potential for success. The
key criteria are presented below:
- Town Population
- Willingness to own, operate and maintain water and sanitation schemes via formation of Water Consumer
Associations (WCAs) as their legal representatives.
- Willingness for cash contributions - actual capital, O&M, and replacement costs
- Willingness by the state to transfer ownership of a larger system to the community, acceptance by the
community of project rules and private sector operation
- Shortage of water and an existing water market
- No planned, free water provision schemes
- Prevalence of the four main water related diseases (onchocerciasis, filariasis, guinea worm, malaria)
3.     Policy Issues and Implementation Approach
Experience in other countries indicates that the following issues need to be addressed to bring improved



23
and sustainable water and sanitation services to small towns.
*  Clear implementation policy and strategy setting out roles of communities, private sector and
government
*  Community involvement in decision making at all stages of project preparation, implementation and
operation
*  Private sector participation in planning, design, construction and operation
* Financial arrangements for cost sharing - capital and O&M and channeling funds to communities
Demand responsiveness underlies these issues where the planning and management of the schemes is
carried out by the community through a representative body, such as a Water Consumer Association. Cost sharing
for both capital and O&M in such schemes ensures that government funding only goes to those communities that are
prepared to maintain their facilities and to construct facilities that they need and can afford. The burden on the
government, both for capital expenses and responsibility for operation and maintenance is reduced as these tasks are
transferred to the private sector. This allows the government to focus on sector management and capacity building,
and lowers the government's fiscal burden. Direct accountability by private companies to communities is expected
to provide better support for sustainable operations and to gradually increase the service level. The issues discussed
below apply to sanitation as well as water supply. The proposed project is intended to provide 80% or more water
supply coverage but only limited coverage of sanitation, with the expectation that this will increase over time as a
result of demonstration and private sector promotion.
a) lmplementation arrangements. The project clearly defines the roles of the stakeholders, the government, the
community, and the private sector. The project will be implemented by the Federal and State level Project
Coordination Units (the FPCU and SPCU). Consultants to the FPCU will be responsible for setting up Extension
and Promotion Teams (EPTs). The EPTs, complemented by Local Government Authority (LGA) Health and
Community Development workers, will complete an assessment of the 24 towns proposed for project participation
by the States, on the basis of pre-defined criteria. A ranking of these towns will be prepared by the EPTs together
with the SPCUs, and submitted to the FPCU, at which time the list will be reduced to 12 towns. After selection of
the eligible towns, the Extension and Promotion Teams (EPTs) will prepare a short list of eligible communities in
each town. They will then prepare feasibility studies for these communities to determine the range of delivery
options and the associated costs for the communities. The communities will be assisted in selecting a service option
based on unit costs of operations and the capital contributions required, and in opening Bank accounts to collect
their contributions. The FPCU and SPCU will jointly decide on the participating communities. Further details of
the implementation approach are provided below.
An intensive information dissemination campaign will be undertaken in the top four ranked towns in each
State, and towns will be assisted in establishing WCAs. There may be one or more WCA per town, depending on
the size of the town and the level of service adopted by the resident communities.
Results of the town assessment and socio-economic surveys, that is, technical options, management
options, financial assessment and cost recovery options, will be presented and explained to the households,
communities, and WCAs. The information presentation and selection of options will be through an intensive and
iterative consultation process, spread over a period of several months. The agreements and decisions reached by the
community will be embodied in a Letter of Intent (LoI) expressing willingness to participate in the project and to
contribute 10 % (or mote, depending on option chosen) of the capital costs plus three months of user costs, of the
selected technical option. The WCAs would need to submit proof of deposit of one third of their capital
contributions and one month of O&M expenses in local WCA accounts, before detailed design work is undertaken.
Another third of the community contribution would need to be deposited before construction is started, and the
remaining third before hand over of the assets. The LoI would also confirm the community's willingness to accept
day-to-day management of the completed systems, to adopt user charges to ensure system sustainability, and
confirm understanding that the government will contribute (maximum) 90 % of the capital costs and nothing
towards future operational and replacement costs.
The civil works procurement and authorization of payments, will be handled by the SPCU jointly with the
WCAs. That is, the WCAs will co-sign all civil works contracts and work completion. All payments from the
Federal and State accounts will be authorized by the FPCU. A more detailed specification of responsibilities is
provided below:



24
Government responsibilities would include:
*  Initiating action at the comnunity level by assisting in organizing water boards and/or water consumer
associations (different options will be tried)
*  Preparing a menu of technical options, along with capital costs and user payments required for operations
and renewal
*  Establishment and maintenance of guidelines and standards
*  Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Channeling funds to communities for new and rehabilitation works
*  Capacity building in the SPCUs and communities
*  Creation of an enabling environment for the private sector
*  Learning and dissemination of information and knowledge
Community responsibilities would include:
*  Forming a representative Water Consumer Association
*  Registering the WCA as a legal entity
*  Determining the type of system they want and how to manage it
*  Meeting financial contributions and management prerequisites to qualify for a construction grant
*  Generating revenues to cover full O&M costs and system renewal
Tlhe private sector participation in small towns could vary from specific services to turn key operations. Their
responsibilities could include:
*  Planning, design, construction, supervision, management support
a  Construction
*  Operations and maintenance support including billing and collection, spare parts supply and installation.
*  Management services or franchise arrangements including for sanitation services
b) Ownership and management. It is intended that the ownership of the facilities rest with the WCA or similar
organization. It is also possible that local government authorities or private firms are owners of the water and
sanitation facilities. A number of ownership and management arrangements are possible. The ownership of a small
town's facilities could be vested with the town Water and Sanitation Development Committee which contracts the
management and operations to a private company. In the case of very smal facilities, an individual contractor could
have a service agreement with the Water Consumer Association. What is important is that the legal basis for the
ownership and management are clear. The options utilized in the pilot will depend on the preferred and feasible
alternative in the various towns. For three of the selected towns, the pilot will test the feasibility of contractual
management of operations of a small water distribution system. Existing schemes requiring rehabilitation will be
selected, and legal ownership of the assets will be transferred to WCAs. The WCAs will be given full support in
identifying and contracting professional management for these schemes. They will also be supported in identifying
and instituting revenue collection schemes for variable costs covering system renewal costs.
c) Financial arrangements. To ensure sustainable arrangements in small towns, generation of adequate funding
for construction, operations and maintenance, and possible expansion, is important The allocation of supporting
funds from the government will be made in the manner described below.
Construction. To qualify for a construction grant communities will be required to select a service option and
contribute at least 10 % of its capital cost in cash, and three months equivalent of the annual O&M costs. The
financial contribution is intended to make them seriously consider the scope of the facilities they actually require
and the related operational burden. A ceiling on the government's contribution for water supply, in the form of a per
capita limit, will be applied to allocate resources more equitably. This cap will be set at N 2,000 to 3,000 per person,
the impact of this to be tested during the pilot.
Operations and maintenance. Communities will be required to bear the full cost of operations and maintenance and
system renewal, given the government's limited financial resources and the tremendous need for rehabilitation and
new facilities. The user charges collected by communities will need to reflect these combined costs. The EPTs will
offer suggestions and help institute a system of revenue collection. Households may pay on a weekly or monthly



25
basis, or daily, at the time of collecting water. Innovative schemes via communally owned assets, to generate cash
would be encouraged. At the community level, care has to be taken to ensure traparency and accountability in the
use of revenues collected. A controlling mechanism would be set up to ensure proper utilization of the funds.
Financial reports would be required to be submitted periodically to the community.
Revenue collection: Each town will be advised about the amount of revenue required to be collected every month to
meet the operation and replacement costs of the water scheme. They will be introduced to this figure first time
during the planning period when they will be informed that they have to collect 3 months O&M costs before the
scheme is commissioned and handed over to the WCA.
The WCAs will decide on the logistics on revenue collection. This could be:
*      Fixed price per jeriycan of water for WCA members, and a different price for non-members.
*      Per visit contribution for sanitation facilities
*      Weekly fixed household collection
*      Monthly fixed household collection.
The point of collection will be at the water point or public sanitation facility for cash collection. Household
collection on weekly or monthly basis would be through house to house visits. Monthly collection would be
discouraged. Any innovative scheme to generate income to meet the O&M and replacement costs would be
welcome.
d) Technology and service level for water supply. A range of technical choices would be used in small towns
water supply to respond to a wide variety of demands, as sun=arized in the table below. Since the project will be
demand driven, it is not possible to determine what type of facilities will be required. While many towns are likely
to select systems consisting of individual point sources, it is proposed that at least three towns with more complex
mechanized systems with distribution networks, be selected for construction/rehabilitation under the project. This is
to meet the objective of testing the willingness and ability of the private sector to participate in system management
of larger systems. It is envisaged that towns requiring rehabilitation will be selected in this respect to minimize costs
to the project.
Technical option and related costs
once         Per       Pe day      Per 20 liters.
Month
Protected Communal well in the town               107                  9        0.30        0.04
Protected springs (cost from snmallest option for  145                14        0.45        0.05
700 people)
Community Water Points with hand-pump on dug      300                 60          20.25
wells (cost for 350 People)
Community Water Points with hand-pumps on         950                100          3         0.40
borehole (costs with 350 people)
Motorized pump with overhead tank using solar     5455              1000         34 
panels (for 750 people)
Motorized pump with overhead tank using           2500               450          16           2
electricity + diesel standby (for 1750 people)
One commurnity with nmany water points distributed  3000             350          12         1.5
along street, motorized pumnps (System for 7000
People) ~                  _            -,/              . _"~~-i  ..---
Surface water scheme - slow sand filter and pre-  1300               475         16
treatlent (cost for 10500 people)



26
Communities should choose the technology that will give the service they want and are able to afford. The
scope of facilities should be consistent with the willingness to pay level. The use of locally available materials will
be looked into carefully, to simplify O&M practices.
e) Technology and service levels for sanitation facilities. The principles of ownership, private operation, and
private sector support will apply to sanitation as they do for water supply. The program will demonstrate
reasonable, affordable and hygienic sanitation facilities; coupled with promotion of self-help and health and hygiene
education by the EPTs. For household use, ventilated improved pit latrine (VIP) and pour flush toilets (indoor or
outdoor types) will be constructed on a demonstration basis for five to ten willing households per small town with
the same cost sharing arrangements as for water supply. One or two public toilets per town may be provided if the
local community agrees to pay somebody to collect fees and keep the facilities clean. One option would be to
franchise the operations and maintenance services. Schools may be candidates for provision of improved facilities,
however schools are currently well covered by existing facilities. As with the water systems, the communities'
preferences concerning type of sanitation facilities and their location will be ascertained and community demand for
such facilities will be a pre-requisite for the sanitation programL In the process of constructing the sanitation
facilities, local craftsmen will be trained in the improved technologies and will be encouraged to promote and sell
their enhanced skills to other households.
Technical Option and Related Costs
Cash          O&M    O&Mper
contribution       per      household
Option                Total Cost   per household    household   per day
50% of capital   per month
___ _ __ _   (Naira)  (Naira)
1. VIP latrine (single pit)          36,000          18,000             320          10
2. Pour Flush (outdoor type)         45,000          22,500             400          13
3. Pour flush (indoor type)          50,000          25,000             440          14
4. Community facilities (4 pit VIP)  130,000            325           40-60       1.3-2.0
(based on 200 people)
Costs of 1, 2 and 3 include 20,000 Naira for superstructure, if required.
Residents of small towns will be educated on best practices for the handling of sullage through appropriate
demonstration including construction of suitable soakaway pits, and also on the proper means of solid waste
disposal. General hygiene education will also be conducted by EPTs including their LGA health officer; this will be
promoted through schools, religious institutions and public gatherings.
f) Development of the private sector (PSP). The program will be required to develop the capacity of the private
sector by providing the necessary environment In addition to the obvious private contribution from construction
contractors, the development of small consultancy firms will be encouraged since much planning will be required at
local levels as the program develops. A new type of contractor also needs to be developed on a larger scale to
handle management, operation and maintenance of smaller water schemes. Three such schemes will be developed
as part of the pilot. Firms will be invited to bid for operations management of these schemes, the communities will
be assisted in signing and monitoring such contracts.
The Government has through the years trained many operators and inspectors who have since departed
from public service. These people represent a valuable resource which can be developed by making potential people
aware of opportunities, and then assisting with defining training to set them up as small contracting firms that can
handle work in the snall towns. The future sustainability of the program also depends on the availability of
equipment and spare parts to support the repair, maintenance and replacement of equipment. Many smaller
organization located in small towns are dependent on a reasonable accessibility of spare parts, preferably within
each state. The pilot project would therefore define conditions for suppliers so that the establishment of local outlets
would be encouraged.
g) Human resource development and training. Training courses will be planned and conducted for federal, state
and local program personnel. Structured training will be coordinated by the National Water Resources Institute
using the training infrastructure developed under the National Rehabilitation Project Outreach Program. In addition,



27
training will be implemented using hands-on training in the small towns where the different water consumers
associations will benefit. The training requirement will cover technical, financial, managerial, and administrative
issues as well as training and enlightenment concerning the program itself. The local training conducted in the small
towns will to a large extent be carried out by the EPTs.
h) Learning. The pilot project has been designed for maximum flexibility in order to develop, learn, modify and
make changes quickly. The decision-making process is designed to be efficient with the project management
directly linked to the Director of Water Supply and Quality Control in the FMWR. This will provide the necessary
support for a rapid decision-making process needed to respond to feedback and modify or alter project rules that are
not working. Extensive consultations between teams working in the field and the project coordination units and
amongst the field workers are part of the project. This will facilitate documentation and dissemination of the pilot
project's experience. Project implementation will continue monitoring which of the rules set up in the pilot work and
which do not work, and continually fine-tune project design in preparation for the proposed nation-wide program.
The FPCU will collaborate with a university to monitor and evaluate the pilot project preparation and
implementation and subsequent follow-up. The draft implementation guidelines prepared by the government will be
finalized on the basis of the pilot experience.



28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
Water supply systems    1.88     2.82     4.70     2.35      0.00      1.85      0.50
Sanitation works       0.50      0.00     0.50     0.00      0.00      0.42      0.08
Vehicles and equipment    0.00   0.30     0.30     0.30      0.00      0.00      0.00
Operating costs        0.30      0.00     0.30     0.00      0.21      0.09      0.00
Workshops and          0.32      0.13     0.45     0.40      0.05      0.00      0.00
promotion
Overseas training and  0.00      0.10     0.10     0.10      0.00      0.00      0.00
networking                                       I_I
Consultants            0.80      1.85     2.65     1.85      0.80      0.00      0.00
Total                  3.80      5.20     9.00     5.00      1.06      2.36      0.58



29
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
The project aims to test a demand-based framework in the provision of water services in twelve small
towns in three states. The project expects to demonstrate that economically and financially viable systems are
feasible when the choice of technical design and cost recovery tariffs is linked, and agreed with beneficiaries prior to
construction.
In the proposed design project, the selection of specific investments in the towns that participate are subject
to negotiations between prospective beneficiaries and the project implementation teams. The final size of the
beneficiary community and the level of service that will be achieved is not known at this point, and will be
determined during the implementation of the project. However, the project design provides assurance that technical
solutions will be both economically and financially viable. Agreement to the project rules regarding credit financing
and cost recovery is a pre-requisite for participation in the project. In particular, the project rules require that user
charges cover operation and maintenance, as well as replacement costs, and that communities confirm and
demonstrate their willingness to adopt these user charges. Nonetheless, since this is a learning-by-doing project,
financial perfonnance would be continually monitored. The framework provides that the project may be modified as
necessary to achieve its economic worth.
At this stage, the proposed project only allows for calculation of indicative rates of return - that is, the
economic analysis is based on an assumed distribution of technologies amongst the population of the selected towns.
This distribution is meant to approximate the most likely scenario of water systems' selection in the project towns.
For the analysis, the conservative assumption is made that there will be no change in water consumption over the
life of the water systems, a constant at 20 Ipcd for manually operated and 30 Ipcd for motorized systems. An
increase in consumption due to reliable and better quality water can, however, be expected to increase consumption
from the current low levels and only increase the benefits due to the project.
The sources of water supply that the project is expected to replace perform poorly, are unsafe from a health
perspective, and less convenient to use than any of the proposed replacement solutions. It seems reasonable to
assume that the lowest level of technology, namely well water, would offer at least the same quality "product" (from
a convenience, quality, and reliability perspective) as any available to consumers today. Further, with the project,
consumers would pay a lower price (equal to the cost recovery figure) than what they are willing to pay as measured
by WTP studies, or by what they are actually paying to itinerant vendors. If we assume that all consumers opt for
well water, the resulting consumer surplus represents the lower bound on the total benefits arising from the project.
All other proposed options, such as handpumps on boreholes and motorized pumps, would offer a higher quality
"product" and be available at a lower cost than consumers' willingness to pay. The base case scenario allows for a
most likely mix of technologies, and we estimate the associated consumer surplus as a measure of the economic
benefits arising from the project.
Operations and maintenance costs, as well as replacement costs have been included in the calculation of
the net present value. Project investment and recurrent costs are based on 1998 naira prices. Cost of physical
contingency was assumed to be 25 % of base construction costs. The asset life for new improves assets is taken to
be 20 years for civil works and 5 years for mechanical components. With these assumptions, the net present value
for the project, at a discount rate of 15%, is US $1.3 million. The project NPV would increase if we allowed the
coverage and consumption levels to grow over the life of the systems.



30
ERR for the base case and with increased O&M costs and/or reduced value of water are as follows:
ERR: 20% t in
Source            IRR (%)      IRR: 20% t in    IRR: 20% 4 in   O&M, and 20% 4'
O&M                WTP              in WTP
Community well         55            54                 43.3               42.8
Handpump on well       66            63                 49                 47
Handpump on borehole  20              19                14                 13
Motorized pump         25             20                9                  1
Motorized pump, with   23             22                16                 15
street standpipes
Overall                26            24                 16                 14



31
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Years Ending FY2000-2003
Year 1    Year 2 |Year 3  IYear 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              1.44       2.88      3.60       1.08
Recurrent Costs                -         -         -          -
Total Project Costs
Interest during construction   -         --
Front-end Fee
Total Financing                   1.44      2.88      3.60       1.08
Financing
IDA                           0.80       1.60      2.00       0.60
Government
Central                   0.07       0.13      0.16       0.04
Provincial                 0.42      0.86       1.08      0.33
Co-financiers                 -          -         -          -
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.14       0.29      0.36       0.11
Total Project Financing       1.44       2.88      3.60       1.08
|Year I    Year 2 |Year 3      Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs               -          -        -          -
Recurrent Costs               0.24        0.24     0.24       0.24
Total Project Costs
Interest during construction   -          -        -          -
Front-end Fee                  -          -        -          -
Total Financing                   0.24       0.24     0.24       0.24
Financing
IDA                            -          -        -          -
Government
Central                    -          -        -          -
Provincial                 -          -         -          -
Co-financiers                 -           -        -          -
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.24        0.24     0.24       0.24
Total Project Financing       0.24       0.24      0.24       0.24
Main assumptions:
Project Financing Plan in US$ Millions     - Implementation Period Bank FY 2000-2003
- Operational Period 2003 onward



32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.     All procurement of goods and works would be done in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, works and services would also be used. All procurement of
consultant services would be done in accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Bank's
Standard Requests for Proposals will be used. A detailed General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in
the UN Development Business (UNDB). The GPN would be updated annually. Specific Procurement Notices will
also be required for consulting service contracts above US$200,000 prior to the preparation of the short list. For
details on project costs by procurement arrangements refer to Table A.
(a)    Civil Works: Civil works contracts will include all water supply systems, construction of latrines, and
public toilets amounting to US$5.20 million equivalent Contracts costing US$50,000 equivalent or more up to an
aggregate not to exceed US$750,000 equivalent will be awarded under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) in
accordance with the Guidelines. Foreign companies will not be excluded from bidding for NCB contracts. Contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate not to exceed US$750,000 equivalent will be awarded on
the basis of soliciting quotations from at least three local contractors. Other contracts will be awarded under
International Competitive Bidding.
(b)    Goods and Equipment: Contracts for goods, such as vehicles and equipment shall be grouped into package
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Contracts estiniated to cost between US$30,000 and US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000, will
be procured through NCB. Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 equivalent will be procured through shopping procedures by soliciting at
least three quotations from different suppliers. National shopping for regular operation or miscellaneous items will
follow IDA guidelines.
(c)    Consultant services: The category of "Services" includes engineering consultants, technical advisory
services to the PMUs, procurement and financial services and training. All consulting service contracts costing
more than US$ 100,000 equivalent for firms will be awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
method. Contracts over US$200,000 will be advertised in a national newspaper and in UNDP. Consulting service
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent for firms will be awarded through the Consultants'
Qualifications selection method. Service of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in
accordance with the provision of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the "Consultant Guidelines". Services costing less than
US$20,000 with an aggregate of not more than US$50,000 may be procured on the basis of least cost.
(d)    IDA prior review: Prior review threshold are indicated in Table B to this Annex. Each civil works contract
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more and each goods contract estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent
or more will be subject to IDA prior review as per Appendix I of the Guidelines. Extensions to NCB contracts for
goods and equipment raising the contract value to US$100,000 or above will be subject to prior review. Other
contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with Appendix I of the Guidelines. Contracts for consultant
services of US$100,000 or more for fimns and US$50,000 for individuals, training and terms of reference of
consultants will be subject to IDA prior review. All single source selection of consultants will be subject to IDA
prior review.
(e)    Procurement Plans: The Bank's standard bidding documents, one for works and one for goods, and the
Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) for consulting services would be used. An Overall Procurement Plan,
including a detailed procurement plan for the first and second year of the project, showing processing time for each
contract, has been agreed. By March 31 each year, the Federal Ministry of Water Resources would update the
overall Procurement Plan and prepare detailed Annual Procurement Plan for the following year.



33
Disbursement
The project will be implemented over a three year period. An IDA credit of US$5.0 million will finance 55 % of the
total project costs. The Government of Nigeria and communities will finance the remaining US$4.0 i.e. 45 /O, in the
form of contributions to the local costs of goods and community participation. For details on project costs by
disbursement categories please refer to Table C.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for expenditures for: (a) civil works
contracts costing less than US equivalent of US$100,000; (b) goods contracts or purchase orders costing less than
equivalent of US$100,000; (c) consultant service contracts for firms below US$100,000 equivalent and for
individual contract below USS50,000; (d) local training and expenditures under National shopping procedures below
US$50,000 equivalent each, which would be based on statements of expenditures. Documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOEs should be kept at a suitable location and readily accessible for IDA review at
any time. Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition).
Special Account
To facilitate disbursement and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, the Governmuent of Nigeria will open a
Special Account in a commercial bank to cover local and foreign currencies under terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness or as needed, an amount of US$600,000 would be deposited by IDA into this
account. Replenishment applications should be submitted at monthly intervals, after monthly bank statements are
received and reconciled, with appropriate supporting documents for local and foreign expenditures as required.
Audit
The PIU financial statements, including the project account, SOEs and the Special Account would be audited each
year by an auditor acceptable to IDA. The auditor's reports and certificates in respect of each of the statements of
accounts would be furnished to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.



34
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ niillion equivalent)
1. Works                       3.7          O?  0.75 0.              0.00       5.20
2. -Vehicles, Goods &          0.20          0.20       0.20        0.00        0.60
Equipmentl
3. Workshop and                0.00          0.00       0.45         0.00       0.45
promotion
4. Training                    0.00          0.00       0.00         0.0        0,10
5. Consultant Services         0.00          0.00       0.00         265        2.65
Total                       3.90          0.95  1    1.40  _      2.65        9.00
Note: ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB= National Competitive Bidding
The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" pertains to Consultants Services, and Training.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US S million    .US $ million-
0.05 or more    |     NCB                 0.10 or
l                  ~~~~~~more
Below 0.05         Shopping
2. Goods & Equipment
0.10 or more          ICB                All
0.03-0.10           NCB
Below 0.03         Shopping
3. Training
All
4. Consultants
Firms                        0.10 or more          QCBS                All
I    Below 0. 10           CQ
Individuals                   See Note 1            CQ                 0.05 or
more
Firms/Individuals             See Note I        Single Source          All
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $8.5 M
Note 1: Single Source and employment of individuals are not subject to any threshold.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 month(s) (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review/audits)



35
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
U 
1        Water supply works                   2.0        50%
2        Vehicles and equipment               0.3        100% fe.
._____________  ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __85%   I.e.
3        Consultants' services                1.6         100% f.e.
4        Training, workshops, and             0.5         100%
networking
5        Unallocated                          0.6
Total                                5.0



36
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
Tietaken to prepare the project (months6 monthis
Fis  alk mission (identification)            No.1998    -        Nov. 1998
Appraisal mission departure                     2/14/1999            2/14/1999
Negotiations                                     3/22/1999          10/15/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   June 1999             / /2000
Prepared by: Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development
Preparation assistance: Multi-State Water Supply Project Cr. 2372-UNI
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
David Henley                Team Leader (Engineering)
Eleanor Warner              Finance (Back-up Leader)
Kavita Sethi                Economist
Paul Kriss                  Financing Mechanisms
Wendy Wakeman               Community Mobilization
Eugene Okongwu              Engineer
Muraino Ogunsanya           Financial Management
Armele Vilceus              Team Assistant
Emestina Attafuah           Program Assistant
Aissata Zerbo               Procurement Assistant



37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Nigeria: Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program - Pilot Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
- Terms of Reference for main consultants
- Procurement plan for initiating activities
- S1WSSP Implementation Guidelines (Project Implementation Manual, PIM)
- Terms of reference for Professional Financial Manager
- Financial Management and Auditing
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Procurement Implementation capacity
- Project economic analysis
C. Other
- Rapid Survey of 37 small towns in Nigeria (Willingness-to-pay report)
- STWSSP Conceptualisation of Programme
- STWSSP Policy Development Report and Appendices



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Nigeria
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed 79
Projects
Difference Between
Board                                          Last PSR                                              Expected and Actual
Date
Fiscal
Year
Supervision Rating b/     Oriainal Amount in USS Millions   Disbursements a/
Active Projects                  Development Implementatio   IBRD       IDA   Cancel. Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives   n Proaress
1991   P002134  PRIMARY EDUCATION            S           S              0       120    29.95   19.82    44.87   -13.01
1991   P002084  WATER REHAB                  S           S            256         0        0    37.3    37.3    37.3
1992   P002109  STATE WATER I                S           S              0       101        0   13.46      9.73    9.56
1993   P002156  DEV. COMMUNICATION           S           S              0      8.03        0    0.98       0.8   -0.27
1993   P002176  STATE ROADS II               S           S              0        85        0    6.86      7.14    7.24
TOTAL                                                256    314.03    29.95   78.42    99.84    40.82



39
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Nigeria
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 2/29/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                   Disbursed
FY Approval Company            Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998 AEF Ansbby          0.1      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1996/98     AEF Bailey Bridg    0.68      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1992 AEF Canplas        0.04      0     0     0 0.04       0      0     0
1999 AEF Chartered      0.32      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1996 AEF Courdeau        0.4      0     0     0   0.4      0      0     0
1997 AEF Ekesons        0.29      0     0     0 0.29       0      0     0
1994 AEF Eterna          0.7      0     0     0  0.7       0      0     0
l999 AEF Global Fabri   0.32      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1999 AEF Hercules        1.3      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1999 AEFHygeia          0.38      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1996 AEF Mid-East          0      0  0.12     0    0       0  0.12      0
1998 AEF Minaj           0.5      0     0     0    0       0      0     0
1997 AEF Moorhouse      1.35      0     0      0  1.35     0      0     0
1997 AEF Radmed         0.29      0     0      0 0.29      0      0     0
1991 AEF Stark          0.03      0     0     0 0.03       0      0     0
1997 AEF Telipoint      0.14      0     0     0 0.14       0      0     0
1995 AEF Vinfesen          1      0     0     0    1       0      0     0
1994 Abuja Intl         1.75   0.71     0     0  1.75   0.71      0     0
1964/66/89   Arewa Textiles        0   0.12     0     0    0   0.12       0     0
1992 FSDH                  0   0.86     0     0    0   0.86       0     0
1981/85/88  Ikeja Hotel            0   0.25     0     0    0   0.25       0     0
1993 Tourist Co Nir        0      0   2.5      0    0      0   2.5      0
Total Portfolio:        9.59   1.94  2.62     0 5.99   1.94  2.62       0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999 AEFlHygeia            0   200      0     0
1995 AEF-NABEGU CO. 1000          0     0     0
2000 Cape Fund             0  7500      0      0
Total Pending Commitment:    1000  7700      0      0



40
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                        Saharan     Low-
Nigeria    Africa  Income      Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (mllions)                     124.6      628     3,515                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  300       480      520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    36.3      304     1,844
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                       2.9      2.6       1.7
Labor force (%)                                     2.9       2.6       1.9     GNP                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of,population below national poverty line)  66
Urban population (% of fotal population)             42        33       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     54        51       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIve births)             79        91       69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           39        ..        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)               50        47        74
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                 40        42       32
Gross primary enrollment (% of'schoolwage population)  98      77       108                 Nigeia
Male                                              109        84       113           -    Low-income group
Female                                             87        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ bililons)                         47.3    23.8      33.5      36.0
Gross domestic investmenUGDP               22.1    17.7      25.7      26.0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP          24.8    32.7      30.4      32.5
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 27.8    25.3      22.4      19.4
Gross national savings/GDP                 26.7    19.1      19.0      16.0
Current account balance/GDP                 3.5    -1.0      -9.8    -12.3      D
Interest payments/GDP                       0.5     6.2       6.3       5 4     Domesticment
Total debtUGDP                             13.2   126.3       84.5     82.2    Savings                      n       t
Total debt service/exports                  2.2    20.9       41.4     34.9
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..
Present value of debtUexports                ..
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998     1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.2      2.7      1.8       0.8      2.6                  Nlgena
GNP per capita                    -2.7      0.4    -1.0      -0.7      -0.2            -     Low-incone group
Exportsofgoodsandservices          -3.6     3.4      2.6      12.8     11.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                28.7    31.3       39.2       -
Industry                                   37.8    43.2      33.4        -      20
Manufacturing                             8.8      5.3       6.4        ..     a
Services                                   33.5    25.5      26.7        -     -20    94          98
Private consumption                        58.3    64.3       63.9       -      40
General govemment consumption              13.9    10.4       13.5                          GDI    --t-GDP
Imports of goods and services              19.1    25.2       29.4     33.5    _
1979-89  1989-99     1998     1999      Growth of exports and imports(%)
(average annua/ growth7)
Agriculture                                 2.2      2.9       4.9       -      20-
Industry                                   -2.7      2.0       0.9       -      15
Manufacturing                              1.1     2.3      -2.3        -     10
Services                                    2.3      3.7       3.1       -      5-
Private consumption                        -1.6      2.0       5.5       -      0
General govemment consumption              -4.6      0.5       2.0       -      5 Ir4       95         D7   98   99
Gross domestic investment                 -10.2      7.5      17.6      8.5   -10
Imports of goods and services             -13.2      4.7      7.8      13.9            -    Exports       lmports
Gross national product                      0.3      3.4       1.8      2.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



41
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOCVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998     1999      Inflation (%l
Domestic pntIces
(% change)                                                                     so
Consumer prices                            11.7    50.5       11.9      6.8    so
Implicit GDP deflator                      11.5    44.4      -5.2      12.7    40
Govemment flnance                                                                                        _       _ S
(% of GDP, Includes current grants)                                             o
Current revenue                            20.7    13.8       16.2     18.0   -20      94   95    a
Current budget balance                     12.0    -1.4       -7.7     -2.3            -     GP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                    -2.5    -7.2    -13.9       -8.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989      1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      16,767    9,812    10,114   11,572    20,000
Fuel                                    15,655   9.411     9,218   10,438
Cocoa                                                                 322    15co0
Manufactures                                        39       407      471
Total imports (ci)                       15,971    6,544     9.276   10,834    10C000
Food                                     1,638  425  1,397  1,589  5,                   ihhhm i
Fuel and energy                           442       46      123       156
93  94  95  96  97  se  go
Export price index (1995a100)               117     107        84      108
Impoft price index (1995=100)                59      80        79       82                  U Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   198     133        87      120
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mIllions)                             1979    1989      1998     1999      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services            17,631    9,979    10,232   11,691     10
Imports of goods and services            13,543    7,679    11,726   13,593
Resource balance                          4,089   2,301    -1,495   -1,902      s
Net income                               -2,026   -2,668    -2,669   -2,853     0
Net current transfers                        ..    118       1,516    1,220 sa
Current account balance                   1,675    -249    -3,088   -3,971
Financing items (net)                     1,765    1,521    2,973    1,697
Changes in net reserves                  -3,440   -1 272      115    2,274    -15
memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ mnilions)    5,5S80    1,797   7,221    5,921
Conversion rate (DEC. localWS)              0.9      9.4      88.0     95.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998     1999
(USS mWilions)                                                                  ComposItlon of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      6,245   30,122    28,343   29,600
IBRD                                      478    2,906    2,278    2,030   1                       2
IDA                                        38      30       472      583            G: 6,516   D   2o3 |
Total debt service                          392    2,117     1,343    1,900   |                         ,  227
IBRD                                       65     411       467      456
IDA                                         1       1         4        5
Compositon of net resource flows
Official grants                            ..
Official creditors                         59     461    -1,763   -1,994
Private creditors                       1.234     522         0        0        F: 5,2                    E 14,415
Foreign direct investment                  -    2,443      1,220    1,469
Porifolio equity                            0       0         0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                               182     702         0        0      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              51     450       200      178   | B- IDA    0 - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       21     200       314      308      C -IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                   31     250      -114      -130
Interest payments                          45     212       156      153
Net transfers                             -15      38      -271      -283
Development Economics                                                                                          4/24(00






N  I  G  E  R                                                            CHAD   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This mop was prodvced by the
-I
SOK~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~                  - -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
50K~~~~~~~~~~~Irp  ~ ~ ~          ~          ~         ~         ~                                                               osThe boundaries, colors, denomieations
'..s.~~,.sSokoto.  -K   ~~Katsina  IN"...                                                                                                                                   and anyother information shown on
'.-'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ,>-  ~~yb  R~ha)                                                                                    this mop do noat imply, on the port of
//  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~')  ATSINA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The World Bank Group, any judgment
-  s~~~~K~~~'';    (             ~~~~~~,   ~KATSINA    Lon the legal status of any territory,or
B'                                                                                                                                   ~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'I'  \ any endorsement or acceptance of
rn~7,  ___\         I         \~ --f                                             JIGA W4'                                                                                                such boundories.
-'    \.   Gos~~~~~~~a   /    ~  ~  ~  ~  "   > '~~~'               Yo T
B E N/I N  R.-    ~             ~            ~             ~           ~             Ka~""                     (\   '                  ~          ;       ~        e.,n                                                                   2
~~\  42   >~~~'t              /                            A\U
to,,  N             "'N    I G~~~~~~~~E   R ~~~"      innNI"                                                                                                                                                                   
(  -~   '~--~                         >  ADAA~AWA
~~,,'  <~~~~   g4~~~j'~~~J~~           >      AN                                               'n'E A'U                                   STATE CAPITALS
~  '~.~A5O~~p  ~cf ,r                       ~A TjE A Li AY0I0 I`A                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
--   kil   Z   K;!4 ARAW                                                                                                                aIno                                                        0   OTHER SELECTED TOWNS
\   ~~~iIorin  /N~~~~,    .~~RRITORY'  SSAR"AWA   ""~~~~~~~~~~                       $     / ~RIVERS
~~~                                                  Nasorasna  0~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~LafaX                -
'sOfIa    -  '\.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~i(                                                                                              '"'"~~~~~~~~' ~EXPRESSWAYS
_                 y84r~- 5R                                                                        /3PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                                                          8'-
Y  d~~~~0         '~~~~'~~       ,7  $~lAio la                                 d                           " ~ ' Y-                                                           -- STATE BOUNDARIES
nk  '"          c           k~~1  -;BN'~                                                     ~1                                                                                 - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,0  '.                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LJGU'J   \Z                                                                                         14'                                16'
__  ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~:~Enu gaq                                                                                                                                     ____________________
agos   -      ,   .~~~~~Beriio4                  A          , t_y '3_-'o                                                                                                                                      t'o
LAGOS                           \   iy             sAa'                "              Abaki/M I
os f.~-~s    ' ABIA             E                                                                                                                                               C H AD
WurrI&>~~~~~~.>  ~~~~4l    \~~~~4O  *Umt~~~~~,  I) ~~~BUJKINA ~                                                                    
KILMEERS ROOANRON'EPBI
"BA 65 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                         0)                   *~~~~~~~~GUNAbV 
50                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o                                                                                                                                                                   SAO TOME  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.         '~~~~~~~'~~~*GH
5p  1 ?O  150    290    250  A-                                                       CENTRAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  OG
f'  6'  8'                       10'                                 12'                               0'      &PR                     I   GABON  (               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRCA



