Report No. PID7301
Project Name                     Nigeria-Small Towns Water Supply and ...
Sanitation Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Water and Sanitation
Project ID                       NGPE64008
Borrower                         Government of Nigeria
Implementing Agency              Federal Ministry of Water Resources
and Rural Development
Contact: Mustapha Bukar, Director of
Special Studies
tel: / fax: 234 9 2342891/2342895
Initial PID prepared             January 11, 1998
Appraisal Date                   February, 1999
Board Date                       April, 1999
Country and Sector Background: Nigeria is the most populous country in Sub-
Saharan Africa, with nearly 20 percent of the region's population. Population
is estimated to be about 105 million and almost evenly divided between urban
centers (>20,000), semi-urban centers (5,000-20,000) and villages (<5,000).
Currently water supply coverage, that is the percentage of people served by
something better than a traditional source, is no more than 50% in urban areas
and 35% in rural areas. No significant and effective investment has been made
in semi-urban areas, and coverage there is estimated to be no more than 15%.
Small towns are generally settlements with populations of about 5000 to
20,000, however, some settlements which are not classified as urban have
populations reaching 100,000 inhabitants and are recognized as small towns due
to population density, socioeconomic characteristics and level of urban
infrastructure development. Small town populations have a potential of
growing faster than the national average growth rate because of migration from
the villages. It is estimated that today about 40 million people in Nigeria
live in small towns. Assuming a modest growth rate of 5%, population in small
towns is projected to increase to more than 60 million in the next 10 years.
Yet, because these settlements fall between rural and urban areas, they are
often overlooked as it concerns development projects. Considering the
population growth rate alone, the development needs of small towns may be
higher than in other settlements thereby justifying urgent interventions to
arrest the imbalance. Using budgetary figures, current investment costs as
well as operation and maintenance costs cannot be met by the current public
sector budget allocations.
Project Development Objectives: The program aims at increasing the coverage
of water supply and sanitation in small towns throughout Nigeria. This will
be achieved through:
Developing a sustainable service for provision of water supplies
Providing safe water supply to populations previously omitted by existing



programs
Accelerating coverage of safe water supply
Developing private sector to actively support the water supply and sanitation
development in small towns
Providing a good example for other participants in the sector.
A learning and innovation loan (LIL) is proposed to support a pilot
project. Through the proposed project, support is being sought to finance a
pilot project which will be an integral part of the planned nationwide Small
Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program (STWSSP). The objectives of the
pilot project are to test, develop and improve the drafted policy framework
and implementation guideline prior to embarking on a nationwide program. It
will particularly test the ability and willingness of the local private sector
to support communities in their water supply investment and operation. It
will also establish and test necessary infrastructure which will be the basis
for the full scale program.
Project Description: The proposed project would include the following
components:
Institutional strengthening:
Establish steering committees at federal and state levels and consumer water
groups
Technical Assistance and consultancy services to:
Test, review and update drafted implementation guidelines for nation-wide
program.
Provide support to guide and define strategy for private sector participation
in STWSSP.
Run health and hygiene education training for local communities.
Establishing a national trust fund (federal) for channeling financial support.
Disseminate information and experience gathered from the pilot project.
Investment:
Construction of water supply facilities in about 12 small towns in three
states covering low cost water supply facilities such as hand pumps or
motorized water pumps. Towns are to be selected on the basis of demonstrated
demand for improved water supply.
Construction of different types of sanitation facilities in pilot towns.
4.      Project Financing:   The pilot project is estimated to cost US$ 8.0
million, of which US$0.5 million will be provided by the beneficiaries and
US$2.5 million by the Government of Nigeria.
5.      Project Implementation:   The overall project implementation will be
coordinated by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources and Rural Development
under the Director of Special Duties. At the State level, a state
coordination unit (SCU) will be established in each participating state.
6.      Project Sustainability:   There are two ways of considering the issue of
sustainability concerning this project. The implementation model and the
proposed established infrastructure is following a new arrangement. The
sustainability of this organization is uncertain but not considered so
important, because, although the linking of the different functions to
-2 -



different agencies may change, the proposed committees and organizational
setup may well survive many reorganizations. The Program is focusing on
sustaining the developed services which in this case are water supply and
sanitation facilities - the local Water Consumer Associations. (WCAs). Much
effort will therefore be placed on community promotion and mobilization.
7.      Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement:    Projects implemented
within the water sector by the World Bank, UNICEF, Government agencies and
others have proved that a supply-driven program for small water supplies does
not necessarily result in sustainable development. A survey carried out in 37
small towns clearly indicate that nearly 80t of developed schemes are out of
operation. Furthermore, many schemes have been abandoned before the schemes
were completed. These results clearly state that future development has to
take a new approach and that is a clear lesson. Although communities
participation has been advocated for quite some time, it has not put the users
in focus and the results have not been encouraging. The project design has
taken these lessons into consideration and will address them by insisting that
all future water supply investments developed under the program be owned by
the consumers themselves through WCAs. These will be registered as legal
bodies in the future so as to have full control over the facility.
Poverty Category: The program is a poverty focused-intervention, aimed at
improving access to potable water supply and appropriate sanitation
facilities.
Environmental Aspects: The project is rated B. During the small towns survey
of 37 small towns, localized environmental assessments were made. Where the
project comes across localized problems these will be discussed with the
residents of the town. The project will to a large extent focus on water
supply, sanitation and health education. In the case of water supply, it is
not envisaged that the volume of water will change significantly from what the
situation is today, but focus will be on quality and availability. The
environmental impact is therefore considered to be insignificant. Communities
will be shown how best to deal safely with waste water. In towns where
sullage is a problem, and where soakaway pits are viable, demonstration pits
will be constructed.
Participatory Approach: The Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Program
is based on a participatory approach to development. Towns will be selected
on the basis of their desire to participate. In each small town where the
project is introduced, users would, with the help of project staff and
community development officers from the local governments, make an informed
choice of the services that would best fit their needs and which they would be
able to sustain.
Program Objective Categories: The project would ensure safe and sustainable
water supply for persons residing in small towns selected for the pilot, and
influence the water supply situation for ultimately more than 40 million
people living in other small towns to be covered by the total program.
Project Benefits: The benefits expected from the proposed project are: (a)
development of "self-help" model (communities would be guided and trained to
organize themselves for local development projects with or without the support
Government); and (b) promote private sector involvement in development thus
reducing the need for investment from Government.
- 3 -



Risks: The main risk would be a change in approach from a demand-driven to
supply driven. This could be reduced by reorientation of project staff and
putting in place new institutional arrangements. Other risks would be (a) at
the federal level a change in priorities which would in turn affect the local
budget allocations; (b) at the local level, the failure of WCAs to manage and
collect funds for operation and maintenance. Since the program has received a
lot of support at all levels so far, continuous support will help minimize the
risk of change in priorities. The latter risk may be reduced by putting in
place an efficient monitoring and reporting system linked to the program, and
by allowing the WCAs establish a common association where they could meet and
learn from each other.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 5, 1999.
- 4 -



