                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank



                                                       Report No.: 36443




               PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT



                                       NIGERIA




      NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT (LOAN 3322-UNI)

     FIRST MULTI-STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CREDIT 2372-UNI)

     SMALL TOWNS WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PILOT PROJECT
                                (CREDIT 3350-UNI)




                                     June 13,2006




Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
independent Evaluation Group (IEG) of the WorldBank

Currency Equivalents (annual average)

 1991 US$l.OO              Naira 9.91                 1998 US$l.OO            Naira 21.89
 1992 US$l.OO              Naira 17.30                1999 US$l.OO            Naira 92.34
 1993 US$l.OO              Naira 22.07                2000 US$l.OO            Naira 101-70
 1994 US$l.OO              Naira 22.00                2001 US$l.OO            Naira 111.23
 1995 US$l.OO              Naira 21.90                2002 US$l.OO            Naira 120.58
 1996 US$l.OO              Naira 21.88                2003 US$l.OO            Naira 129.22
 1997 US$l.OO              Naira 21.89                2004 US$l.OO            Naira 132.89


Abbreviations and Acronyms

 CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
 CDD              Community driven development
 CPI              Consumer price index
EU                European Union
FGN               Federal Government of Nigeria
FMF               Federal Ministry of Finance
FMWR              Federal Ministry of Water Resources
FPCU              Federal project coordination unit
 GDP              Gross domestic product
 GNP              Gross national product
 ICB              International competitive bidding
 ICR              Implementation Completion Report
 IFC              International Finance Corporation
 KSWB             Kaduna State Water Board
 MDG              Millennium Development Goals
 MOF              Ministry of Finance
NCB               National competitive bidding
 NEPA             Nigerian Electric Power Authority, now called NHPC
 NRW              Non Revenue Water, previously called UFW
 NSWB             Niger State Water Board
 PIU              Project Implementation Unit
 OED              Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank, now IEG
 UFW              Unaccounted for Water, replaced by Non Revenue Water
 UNDP             United Nations Development Program


 Fiscal Year

 Government of Nigeria: January 1-December         31




Director-General, Evaluation                             :   Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group                   :   Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation          :   Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             :   Mr. Keith Pitrnan

     IEG Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The IndependentEvaluationGroup assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first, to
ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe expected
results, and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies,and procedures through the disseminationof lessons
drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEG annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations.
Assessments are conducted one to seven years after a project has closed. In selecting operationsfor assessment,
preferenceis given to those that are innovative,large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingcountry evaluations;
those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments;and those that are likely to
generate important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selected for assessment support larger
evaluation studies.
     A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare PPARs, IEG staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader IEG studies.
     Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management approval. Once cleared internally, the PPAR
is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent to the
borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are incorporated into the document that is sent to the Bank's Board.
When an assessment report is released to the Board, it is also widely distributed within the Bank and to concerned
authorities in member countries.


About the IEG Rating System
     The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (complete definitions and descriptions of factors considered are
available on the IEG website: http://wblnl023.worldbank.orgloed/oeddoclib.nsf/
232d43ae09e87ac985256966007cc257/acaeb95358e99e578525698~00519Oda?OpenDocument).
     Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.
     Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
     lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Sal:isfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.

     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings      ................................................................................................................v

Key Staff Responsible          ......................................................................................................vi

Summary   ...........................................................................................................................ix

Preface..............................................................................................................................vii
                                                                                                                                      ..

1 Findings and Lessons
.                                   ...................................................................................................1

       Country and Sector Background ..............................................................................I

       Outcomes..................................................................................................................2

       Lesson Learnt..................        ..    ................................................................................. 2

2 Project Outcomes
 .                            .........................................................................................................5

       The National WaterRehabilitation Project ............................................................. 5

                 Relevance .....................................................................................................7
                 Efficacy ........................................................................................................    7
                 Efficiency .....................................................................................................     9
       The First Multi-State WaterSupply Project ............................................................                         9

                 Relevance ...................................................................................................        10
                 Efficacy ......................................................................................................      11
                 Efficiency ...................................................................................................       11
       The Small Towns WaterSupply and Sanitation Project ........................................                                    12

                 Relevance ...................................................................................................        14
                 Efficacy ......................................................................................................      14
                 Efficiency ...................................................................................................       15
3. Institutional Development Impact                      ............................................................................16

4 Sustainability
 .                     .............................................................................................................. 17

5. Bank and Borrower Performance                         ............................................................................18

       Bank Performance ................................................................................................             1 8

       Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                19
Annex A.Basic Data Sheet               ..............................................................................................21

Annex B .Borrower           Comments          .......................................................................................27

.
This report was prepared by Klas Ringskog (Consultant). who assessed the projects in
February 2006 under direction from George T. Keith Pitman. Soon-Won Pak provided
administrative support.


         Principal Ratings


                                                                                                                  --I_Yi.                                                                     - "-----~---
___"*"-"-~-_,sm"-a-"                                                 ",*"
                                                                        ___*--*---..,                                                 "-l","eu"                    em,---                                                                                             "*-,""-.-'""~--
                                                                                                     ICR*                                                                            ICR Review*                                                               PPAR
            -.--.___   _--_-                                     -_-.-.---____                                                                                           _
                                                                                                                      -....^-.----I.
"___"l_




        Outcome                                                                         Unsatisfactory                                                            Moderately Unsatisfactory                                                          Highly Unsatisfactory

        Sustainability                                                                             Unlikely                                                                                Unlikely                                                     Highly Unlikely

         Institutional Development                                                                 Modest                                                                                  Modest                                                         Negligible
         Impact

         Bank Performance                                                                         Satisfactory                                                                         Satisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory

         Borrower Performance                                                           Unsatisfactory                                                                               Unsatisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                      -                                     -
                                                             -""-a"-"ae-                                                                      *-------------"-




                                                        ------                                            .'
",-"                                                 "w"                                                      "---"          -.-*-'m-                                    --*-"-"                 m*---s--------*------

                                                                                                     ICR*                                                                             ICR Review*                                                              PPAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
__-I




        Outcome                                                                         Unsatisfactory                                                                               Unsatisfactory                                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

         Sustainability                                                                            Unlikely                                                                                Unlikely                                                        Unlikely

         Institutional Development                                                                 Modest                                                                                  Modest                                                              Modest
         Impact

         Bank Performance                                                               Unsatisfactory                                                                               Unsatisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory

         Borrower Performance                                                           Unsatisfactory                                                                               Unsatisfactory                                                     Unsatisfactory
*-a"---"               mw-*w*"  -m-----7w-am~".---&-                                                                                                              ~ ~     "     - ' - + - s " ~ ~ -                   = ' m - ~ s " - - = - - - - - -




         SMALLTOWNSWATERSUPPLYAND SANITATION(CREDIT33500-UNI)
-----                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ----
                                                                p---P--'----P                                                                                                                pm


        _-                                                                                           ICR*                                                                             ICR Review*                                                              PPAR
                 -_           - -                        - - ---          -                                                                                                              - -                                      -    _ _       --  ---       -
                                                                                                                                            -^_                                                ^^_--^---



         Outcome                                                                        Unsat~sfactory                                                                               Unsat~sfactory                                                      Sat~sfactory

         Sustainability                                                                            Unlikely                                                                                Unlikely                                                            Likely

         Institutional Development                                                                 Negligible                                                                            Negligible                                                       Substantial
         Impact

         Bank Performance                                                                         Satisfactory                                                                       Unsatisfactory                                                      Satisfactory

         Borrower Performance                                                           Unsatisfactory
                                                                        ------                                                                                                       Unsatisfactory                                                      Satisfactory
-"       --me----."                                                                                                                                                                          -"----"---------"---
                                                                                       mm."m----*-w             ,s--w*s-Ma--
                                  %.---




         * The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR)is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.The ICR
         Review is an intermediate IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG)productthat seeks to independently verify the findings of the
         ICR.

Key Staff Responsible

NATIONALWATERREHABILITATION    PROJECT(LOAN3322-UNI)

Project        Task Manager         Division Chief       Country Director

 Appraisal     Elaine Patterson     James Wright, Jr.    Edwin Lim

 Completion    David Henley         Letitia Obeng        Mark Tomlinson




Project        Task Manager         Division Chief       Country Director

 Appraisal     David Henley         James Wright, Jr.    Edwin Lim

 Completion    David Henley         Letitia Obeng        Mark Tomlinson



SMALLTOWNSWATERSUPPLY    AND SANITATION(CREDIT3350-UNI)

Project        Task Manager         Division Chief       Country Director

 Appraisal     David Henley         Letitia Obeng        Yaw Ansu

 Completion    Paul Kriss           lnger Andersen       Mark Tomlinson

Preface

        This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) evaluates three water supply
projects. The National Water Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3322-UNI) for US$256.0 million
was approved on May 21, 1991,became effective on August 27, 1992, and closed on June
30, 2001, two years after the original closing date of June 30, 1999.The First Multi-State
Water SupplyProject (Credit 2372-UNI) for US$101.0 million was approved on May 28,
1992, became effective on May 4, 1993, and closed on September 30,2000, one year after
the original closing date of September 30, 1999. The Small Towns Water Supply and
Sanitation Pilot Project (Credit IDA 3350-UNI) for US$5 million equivalent, was approved
on May 18, 2000, became effective on August 1,2000, and closed on June 30,2004, one
year after the original closing date of June 30, 2003.

        The three assessed projects had quite different objectives and scope. The National
Water Rehabilitation Project followed the first generation of water supply projects from the
Bank that had been for investments and institutional strengthening in the states of Kaduna
(1979), Anambra (1980), Bomo (1985), and Lagos (1989). In contrast to these four state-
specific projects the National Water Rehabilitation Project was nationwide and catered to all
Nigerian states. Subsequent water supply projects resumed the state-specific strategy when
the First Multi-State Water Supplywas earmarked for Kaduna and Katsina states (that
comprised the territory of the "old" Kaduna state from which Katsina was split off in 1987).
Finally, the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project took aim at satisfying the
needs of 16individual towns.

        The National Water Rehabilitation, the First Multi-State, and the Small Towns Water
Supplyprojects were selected for this cluster assessment in order to evaluate the reasons for
the failure of the Bank's assistance to the Nigerian water supply sector in the 1979-2004
period in which seven out of seven projects had been rated as unsatisfactory, with unlikely
sustainability and with negligible or modest institutional development impact.

        This report is based on the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) prepared by
the Africa Region, the Memoranda and Recommendations of the President, Staff Appraisal
Reports, loan documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff. An IEG mission
visited Nigeria February 1-16,2006to assess the three water supply projects and met
stakeholders to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with development partners,
project implementing agencies and beneficiaries. The cooperation and assistance of central
government and regional officials and staff, nongovernmental stakeholders, and other
interested parties are gratefully acknowledged. Visited sub-projects included Doko, Izom and
Kuta (Niger state) that were part of the Small Towns WSS Pilot Project, Bida and Agaie
(Niger state) that were part of the National Water Rehabilitation Project, Kaduna City that
was part of the National Rehabilitation Project, and Zonkwa and Kwoi (Kaduna state) that
were part of the First-Multi-state Water Supply Project.

        Following customary procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for review and comments before being disclosed. Their
comments are attached as Annex B.


Summary

        The Nigeria National, Multi-State and Small Towns projects assessed in this PPAR
comprised the World Bank assistance to the Nigerian water supply sector over the period
1992-2004,a time of great economic and political stress in the country. These projects
represent a clear evolution in the scope of World Bank lending: the first project was
nationwide and concentrated on procurement and installation of equipment in selected water
systems in each of the 36 Nigerian states and the National Federal Territory; the second
project was restricted to two states (Kaduna and Katsina); and the third project directly
assisted 16 small towns.

        The primary objectives of the National and Multi-State projects were to improve
water supply services in selected urban and semi-urban areas of several states and bring
about the efficient operation and maintenance of their respective water supply systems. In
addition, the Multi-State project aimed to improve the health, productivity and living
conditions of people residing in such areas; to strengthen and make their Water Boards
financially self-sufficient; and to assist the Borrower in preparing water projects for non-
project states of Nigeria. The objectives of the Small Towns Project was to pilot a new
concept for identification, implementation and operation of water supplies in small towns; to
facilitate sustainable access to safe water and adequate sanitation; and to determine the most
efficient service-delivery mechanism for replication throughout the Borrower's territory.

        IEG rates the outconle of the National project as highly unsatisfactory, its
sustainability as highly unlikely, and its institutional development impact as negligible. The
outcome of the Multi-State project is rated as moderately unsatisfactory, its sustainability
as unlikely and its institutional developn~entimpact as modest. In contrast, the outcome of
the Small Town project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely and its institutional
development impact as substantial. While Bank and Borrower performance were rated as
unsatisfactory for the National and Multi-State projects, the performance of the Bank and
the Borrower for the Small Towns project is rated as satisfactory.

       The improving trend in project outcomes can in large part be explained by a shift in
responsibility for project implementation away from the Federal Ministry of Water
Resources under the National project, to only two State Water Boards (Kaduna and Katsina)
under the Multi-State project, and finally to a clear focus on a limited number of towns under
the Small Towns project. This shift enabled an alignment of the incentives of the
beneficiaries with the objective of designing and building simple systems that could be
sustainably operated.

       The steadily improved ratings for water supply lending in Nigeria vindicate the Bank's
evolving lending strategy since the late 1990s)although deep-seated problems will remain for
many years to come. Historically, Nigeria's water supply and sanitation sector has been
caught in a vicious circle characterized by an absence of policies that could enable efficient,
sustainable service for all. Specifically, this includes the dearth of tariffs that reflect costs of
service; an absence of autonomous state water boards; perpetual operating deficits which
deprive the state water boards of funds for maintenance, new investment and back-up power
supplies; and grossly inadequate power supplies that cause intermittent water service and
damage to electromechanical equipment. Thus, abysmal service qualityjeopardizes the state

water boards' collection of tariffs that might produce operating surpluses, which has led them
to become dependent on periodic external finance to rehabilitate deteriorating systems and on
handouts from the state governments to fbnd operating deficits.

      Because of these problems it is highly unlikely that Nigeria will meet its water supply
and sanitation targets under the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). It has long been
thought that the service coverage in urban areas is 50 percent for water supply. Based on a
sample of towns and cities included in the three projects it seems that water service is
accessible to no more than a quarter of the urban population (in the case of Kaduna state) and
often to as few as 10percent. Thus there is a threat that service coverage seems to be
dropping rather than rising as the country approaches the 2015 MDG target year.

      There are three principal lessons:

     First, the targets under the MDGs for water supply and sanitation, focusing only on
service coverage and access, need to be expanded to include the reliability and quality of
water supplies.

      Second, effective coordination between central, state and local governments requires
demand-driven approaches where the consumers have the initiative. The improved ratings
over the last fifteen years also parallel a growing attention paid to the financial sustainability
and improved governance of individual states and towns. The motivation of state water
boards to invest and maintain equipment purchased under the National Project was low when
funding was distributed over all Nigerian states and when purchases were controlled by the
Federal Ministry of Water Resources. The Multi-State Project represented an improvement
since fbnding was concentrated in two states, thus permitting more comprehensive and
possibly sustainable interventions. The best result was obtained when the Small Towns
project engaged the local communities early on and conditioned the financing of investments
on their success in collecting funds to pay for a portion of the works.

     Third, maintenance merits priority over new works. The three projects mark a
rebalancing of the needs for maintenance of existing assets versus simply investing in new
capacity. The National and Multi-State projects show that increasing system coverage and
capacity is of little use if the rest of the existing system is dysfunctional due to inadequate
maintenance. Conversely, the Small Towns project obliged the participating towns to
contribute financially to the investments and to organize sustainable operation and
maintenance of systems they now owned. Indeed, about half have employed small private
entrepreneurs to operate the systems. And the likely sustainability of the Small Towns project
(with 13out of 16towns operational) attest to the merits of the principle of demand-driven
investments where the communities have the final decision on the type and cost of the system
that will be built. Getting management of water services to the lowest appropriate level
appears to be one of the key ingredients for sustainability.


                                                                         Vinod Thomas
                                                                Director-General, Evaluation

1.        Findings and Lessons

COUNTRY       AND SECTORBACKGROUND


1.        Nigeria is the most populous state in Africa with an estimated population of 140
million in 2004 occupying an area of 926,000 square kilometers. The aimual population
growth rate is thought to have declined from 2.9 percent over the 1980-2001 period and is
projected to be 1.9percent over the 2001-15 period. About 45 percent of the population is
considered urban and about 55 percent rural. The rural population includes communities with
populations below 5,000; larger communities are considered urban. Per capita GNP reached
close to US$1,300 in 1980but has since dropped sharply and was estimated at US$290 in
2001. After independence in 1960the Nigeria was mostly ruled by the military but since
1999the country has been led by a democratically elected president. The northern half of the
country is primarily Muslim and the southern half primarily Christians. Disputes over
political power, access to the benefits from oil resources and inter-denominational strife flare
up periodically.

2.        It has long been thought that about half of the urban population is connected to
potable water but current data now indicate that the urban coverage might be at most half
that, or 25 percent. Rural coverage is lower. In both urban and rural areas water service is
intermittent or absent and water is unsafe. With the exception of the capital Abuja, the
country has no operative sanitary sewerage. Infant mortality, which was estimated at 117per
thousand live births in 1980, has declined to 101 per thousand live births by the year 2004.
Over the same period, under-five child mortality declined marginally from 230 to 197per
thousand live births.' Poor water service and no sanitary excreta disposal can explain much
of the high mortality.

3.        Water supply is a state responsibility in Nigeria and each of the 36 states and the
Federal Capital Territory has created a State Water Board to exercise its authority. The State
Water Boards are vested with the duty to provide service in both urban and some semi-urban
areas. State ministries of water are responsible for service delivery in small towns and rural
areas. The Federal Ministry of Water Resources (FMWR) is responsible for national and
international aspects of water resource allocation and for approving large water resource
development projects. FMWR oversees the activities of 11 River Basin Development
Authorities. The FMWR has a Department of Water Supply and Quality Control, but without
any formal regulatory authority. In practice, the country lacks reliable consolidated
assessments of access and quality of water supply and sanitation services. To remedy this gap
the Department of Water Supply and Quality Control is planning a study to establish a
country-wide baseline to track Nigeria's progress towards meeting the water access targets
under the Millennium Developnlent Goals (MDG). It is already clear that Nigeria is unlikely
to meet the MDG target^.^


1.UNICEF. 2005. Globally the average infant mortality rate in 2004 was 54 per 1,000;ranging from 5 for
industrialized countries to 59 for developing countries and 98 for the least developed countries. Source:
http:/lchildinfo.org/areas/childmortality/infantdata.php.

2. In its comments (see Annex B) the FMWR notes" that the Federal Government, through the FMWR,
continued to invest over US100 million dollars, every year on water supply infrastructural development."

4.       IEG rates the outcome of the National Water Rehabilitation Project as highly
unsatisfactory3,the outcome of the First Multi-State Water SupplyProject as moderately
unsatisfactory. In contrast, the outcome of the Small Town Water Supply and Sanitation
Project is rated as satisfactory.

5 .      The improving trend in project outcomes can in large part be explained by a shift in
responsibility for project implementation away from the Federal Ministry of Water
Resources under the National Project, to only two State Water Boards (Kaduna and Katsina)
under the Multi-State project, and finally a clear focus on a limited number of towns under
the Small Towns project. This shift enabled an alignment of the incentives of the
beneficiaries with the objective of designing and building simple systems that can be
sustainably operated.

6.        The three projects also mark a rebalancing of the needs for maintenance of existing
assets versus simply investing in new capacity. The National and Multi-State projects show
that increasing system coverage and capacity is of little use if the rest of the existing system
is dysfunctional due to inadequate maintenance. Conversely, the Small Towns project
obliged the participating towns to contribute financially to the investments and organize
sustainable operation and maintenance of systems they now owned. Indeed, about half have
employed small private entrepreneurs to operate the systems. And the likely sustainability of
the Small Towns project (with 13 out of 16towns operational) attest to the merits of the
principle of demand-driven investments where the communities have the final decision on
the type and cost of the system that will be built.




Lesson One: The tracking of the targets under the Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) must improve to account for the water supply service deficiencies of Nigeria.

7 .      It is highly unlikely that the MDG water supply and sanitation targets will be met
in Nigeria. The reasons are twofold. First, the present PPAR has demonstrated that the
present weighted access to water supply of 42 percent does not paint a true picture of access.
The PPAR has estimated urban connection rates in Kaduna state at the most as 25 percent                 -

and this after the state has benefited from three previous Bank loans and is benefiting from a
fourth, the National Urban Water Sector Reform Project, approved in 2004. It stands to
reason that Kaduna state is likely to have one of the highest, if not the highest, rates of access
to water supply in Nigeria which makes it likely that the present actual access in Nigeria is at
the most about half that conventionally assumed.

8.       Second, the PPAR reports on the abysmal quality of water service in Nigeria with
intermittent service being the rule and bacteriological quality of service unsafe. Therefore
what the MDG define as access to water supply service cannot be taken as safe or as


3. In its comments (see Annex B) on the draft PPAR the FMWR notes that "Besides, only three out of the 188
rehabilitated schemes were visited and thereby wondered how the PRAR came to the conclusion that the project
was highly unsatisfactory."

representing a modicum of satisfactory service. In some cases               - such as for the system in
Zonkwa built under the First Multi-State Water Supply project in Kaduna state water has         -

not been available for four months. In Kaduna's capital city only 28 percent of water samples
test negative for pathogens; and in the mega-city of Lagos the actual average consumption of
the population has been estimated at 12 liters per capita per day.4

9.      Such glaring deficiencies in the quality of service demand that the simplistic MDG
definitions of what constitutes access to water supply service must evolve to incorporate
some form of quality considerations. These might comprise the continuity of service that is
fundamental to safeguard the bacteriological safety of supplies. To track such an amended
definitions of access, Nigeria must equip itself with a sound monitoring and evaluation
system. Such a system will not require much external financing, but simply having the
Federal Ministry of Water Resources, through its Directorate of Water Supply, annually
monitor a dozen or so of the most central performance indicators of the water supply
operations of the State Water Boards.

Lesson Two: Effective coordination between central, state and local governments
requires demand-driven approaches where the consumers have the initiative.

10.     The three assessed projects show a clear evolution from a supply-driven strategy
where the Federal Ministry of Water Resources controlled the National Water Rehabilitation
Project tightly, via the First Multi-State Water Supply project where two State Water Boards
were responsible for project implementation, to the Small Towns Water Supply project
where the local communities were the driving and deciding force for all major decisions. The
results clearly show the relative benefits of the three approaches: the Small Towns project
has been rated as satisfactory, the First Multi-State Water Supply as moderately
unsatisfactory and the National Water Rehabilitation Project as unsatisfactory.

Lesson Three: Maintenance merits priority over new works.

11.       The results of the National Water Rehabilitation Project are proof that new works in
the absence of reliable maintenance will not increase supply. Effectively no attention was
paid to ensuring a reliable system of maintenance of the power supply, or the effective and
reliable production of replacement power through standby generators. Maintenance was
mentioned as an objective but for maintenance to happen there must be policy declarations,
policy instrumentation and policy implementation. None of this happened. The political
powers at state levels were not asked to support maintenance through policy declarations or
the adoptions of suitable legislation and regulation, nor were they asked to guarantee the
financing to undertake maintenance and operate the systems reliably. In the absence of
financial self-sufficiency the first victim of financial stress was preventive maintenance with
serious long-term consequences.




4. Agenda 21, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. established a target of access to at least
40 litres per capita per day of safe water in urban areas by the year 2000. The full implementation of Agenda
21,the Programme for Further Implementation of Agenda 21 and the Commitments to the Rio principles, were
strongly reaffirmed at the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) held in Johannesburg, South
Africa in 2002.

Lesson Four: Demand-driven projects demand adequate community development.

12.      The success of the demand-driven Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project
could not have happened without substantial resources expended on activating the small
towns and stimulating them to setting up Water Consumer Associations. These WCAs
quickly appreciated the fact that they were in the driver's seat and arranged for the collection
of funds to pay the required 10percent contribution of the project investments.'
Subsequently, they took on the responsibility of operating the works .themselvesor
employing private operators for the purpose. The support from the Federal and State Project
Coordination Units was mainly positive. However, in the case of the selection of the
technical alternative there should have been better guidance under the Kuta sub-project to
weed out the very expensive option that will             - if it will ever be operational be very costly
                                                                                            -

and complicated to operate. Demand-driven approaches must therefore be combined with
some kind of project selection criteria based on a cost-effective analysis of different options.
Such criteria might simply be a ceiling for the capitalized value of the projected capital and
current costs of a given sub-project over the useful life of the investment.

Lesson Five:Water Projects cannot succeed without the political will to reform

13.      The failure of the National Water Rehabilitation and First Multi-State Water Supply
projects show there was not effective attention paid to tracking meaningful operational
performance indicators, and to creating viable commercial systems with appropriate tariffs
and systems to bill and collect sufficient revenue to enable the State Water Board to become
financially sufficient. The ultimate responsibility for this failure must be shared between the
political and technical authorities in Nigeria and the Bank preparation and supervision teams.

14.      A more reasonable lending strategy would have been to apply a step-wise analysis
and acceptance of the investment programs of individual state water boards where the
political will in each state would be tested at each successive step in project preparation and
implementation. Accordingly and first, for a state to be considered for financing under the
Bank loan it would have to agree to supply the minimum of performance indicators to allow
the preparation teams to judge what mixture of reform and investment would be required.
Second, the state would receive access to funding conditioned on implementing the reforms
that would have been agreed on as a result of the initial diagnostic. Third, there must be a


5. The Bank's Africa Region staff note: ". ..it is important to recognize the tension that may arise with
politicians who are often more interested in short-term impacts rather than this time-consuming approach
associated with community participation. If community participation is considered to be critical for
sustainability, then the question policy makers and project fmanciers should be struggling with is "what is the
appropriate level of contribution that will ensure that communities have a enough ownership in facilities to
make them sustainable over time?? In fact, in Nigeria, different projects have used different rules. Under the
IDA STWSSP, the contribution from communities was 10% but under the EU Small Towns Project it was
reduced to 5%. The common view that the higher the contribution, the higher the likelihood that facilities will
be maintained and sustained does not take into account the transaction costs of convincing local governments
and communities; too high a contribution may paralyze investments and also might appear unfair in comparison
of what is required from urban customers, i.e. almost nothing up-front. There are examples elsewhere that have
been positive without contributions being provided by the communities but other rules have been set up by the
communities with regard to the management of the facilities and services. There is no magic number and each
project should define the rules of the game based on the exact situation of the communities and their willingness
to invest in facilities and services that will provide benefits that they are looking for."

willingness on the part of the financing agencies, including the Bank, to exclude those states
from financing where the political will to reform, and therefore chances of a positive project
outcome, are not at hand.



2.      Project Outcomes



15. The Federal Ministry of Water Resources through its Department of Water Supply and
Quality Control implemented the National Water Rehabilitation Project. As the Ministry had
little experience in project execution, management consultants were employed to do the work
for them. Thus project implementation (including procurement) was controlled from the
capital Abuja on behalf of all State Water Boards, a questionable arrangement since the
Ministry in Abuja had little knowledge of the problems at each State level. Equal funding for
every state, despite widely varying needs and priorities for inhastructure rehabilitation and
institutional reform - compounded by the problems caused by the unfortunate choice of
project implementation arrangements - lowered the incentives for the State Water Boards to
participate.

16.     Project objectives, components and costs are summarized in Table 1. The funding of
the components was generous. About US$210million was expended on equipment and civil
works (under part A of the project), another US$10 million for operational support, and
US$75 million for consultant services of which US$20 million for project management and
US$55 million for engineering, studies and TA.

17. The quality of entry is rated as highly unsatisfactory since its objectives stood no
chance of being achieved with the components and project implementation selected. The
project design forgot the simple truth that in order to meet project objectives there must be
incentives to invest, build water supply capacity and ensure effective water distribution to
meet needs. State Water Boards felt disenfranchised since project implementation was
controlled at the center. Investments were reserved for rehabilitation of the capacity to
produce water. Distribution investments were not eligible for financing for nearly the entire
duration of the project implementation period. And the physical scope of the project   -
covering 36 federated states in an area of close to one million square kilometers and with
difficult communications   - created serious problems for implementation.

18. Quality of the design of the monitoring and evaluation. The project was designed
without a clear concept of how it would eventually improve service to consumers. It was
somehow assumed that increased production capacity would translate into better service - a
questionable assumption at best. The monitoring and evaluation system that was created at
the onset of the project comprised some 22 performance indicators but does not seem to have
become operative. The focus seems to have been more on tracking disbursements than on
improving service quality and sustainability. The fact that neither historical nor projected
values were assigned to any of the 22 performance indicators in the Staff Appraisal Report or
in the Loan Agreement might have given the Borrower and the Beneficiary State Water
Boards the impression that the monitoring and evaluation was not strictly necessary to

receive funding. In the event, the supervision reports did not track the evolution of the 22
performance indicators. The principle for a sound monitoring and evaluation system was thus
violated since the level of sophistication did not match the ability and motivation of the
SWBs to collect and analyze the indicators, nor were there any sanctions for failure to collect
them.

Table 1. Project objectives, components and costs

                                                                                       Planned    Actual
       Objective                                 Components                            Cost (US$ Cost (US$
                                                                                       millions)  millions)

A. Improve water supply  Rehabilitation of water supply systems through carrying        277.0     240.6
services in selected    out sub-projects for the repair or replacement of civil
urban and semi-urban    works includina:-
areas of the Project
States                   a   Providing plants and equipment including leakage
                             detection and repair programs

                             Ins1:itutionalstrengthening of the operation and
                             maintenance, financial management, staffing and
                             stores management capabilities

B. Assist the water      Strengthening of the Federal Ministry of Water Resources        29.7      54.0
supply agencies of the   through the strengthening the capabilities of the FMWR's
Project States in the    Department of Water Supply and Quality Control to
efficient operation and  provide effective support for the water supply agencies of
maintenance of their    the Project States including:
respective water supply
systems                  a   Development of policy guidelines for the design and
                             maintenance of water SUDDIYsystems, and standards
                                                              -
                             for water quality, equipment, water treatment
                             chemicals

                         a   Improved tariff structures and costs recovery

                             Manpower development

                         a   Establish and maintain a data base to monitor key
                             performance indicators of the water supply agencies
                             of the Project States

                             Establish and maintain a water resources and water
                             quality data base for both surface and groundwater
                             sources

                             Identify the critical training needs in the water sector
                             and assess the adequacy of the local training
                             institutions to meet such needs

                             Carry out special studies of general interest to the
                             water sector; e.g. pollution and water quality studies,
                             review of tariff structures and fixed assets valuations.

                        Total Cost                                                      306.7     294.6


19. The overall outcome of the National Project is rated highly unsatisfactory. The
rating of project outcome is computed as a composite rating of each of the individual ratings
for the project's relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance is rated modest, efficacy is
rated as negligible and efficiency is rated as negligible. The rationale for these ratings is
discussed below.

Relevance

20.    The relevance of the project is rated as modest. Although the objectives were
consistent with the needs, the components stood little chance of making .theobjectives
reachable. The project design was not aligned with the institutional incentive structure in
which it is the State Water Boards that are responsible for the provision of water supply and
not the FMWR. The project was aligned roughly with the recommendations of a Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Memorandum that had been prepared by the Bank in 1984 and
which advocated a fairly centralized approach through the Federal Government to address the
sector's problems. It is the view of this PPAR that these recommendations were misplaced
and did not focus on the sector priorities: the most important being incentives to operate the
existing systems efficiently and sustainably. The project chose not to try out private operators
although this was in vogue within the Bank at the time of the approval of the loan. No
reference was made in the SAR of any Country Assistance Strategy that might have existed
at the time. It was simply assumed that rehabilitation and system expansion were the sector
priorities and that "rehabilitation would logically be followed by programs of carefully
planned expansion and improvement of existing systems, to provide acceptable levels of
service to a rapidly increasing population." (SAR paragraph 2.17). This seems to have been
largely wishful thinking. Belief in the orderly improvement of the sector's performance was
also repeated in the section on the sector strategy under the subsequent First Multi-State
Water Supplyproject. (SAR paragraph 1.23)


Efficacy

21. The Implementation Completion Report6notes that the national "actual possible
production" rose from 720,000 m3per day to 1,420,000 m3per day. However, IEG was
informed that actual production in 1999 turned out to be only 800,000 m3per day, a number
that is difficult to verify. The disappointing result is not difficult to explain and could be
exemplified with the utilization rate of a pump procured under the project:

         The pump was procured by FMWR and installed.

         The power supply from the Nigeria Electric Power Authority (NEPA) was so
         deficient that the pump could not be consistently operated, either because there was
         insufficient voltage to start it or else it became inoperative because of damage caused
         by currency surges.

         The Project allowed for the purchase of standby generators.

         But the generators could not be operated because the State Water Board did not have
         the free cash to buy fuel oil, or failed to maintain the pump.

         The absence of financial policies and the reluctance of state governors to allow
         higher tariffs have meant that the State Water Boards incur large cash operating
         deficits and rely on cash handouts from the State governors.




6. IBRD report No 23363, dated December 28,2001.

            As a result, service quality has become intermittent and water quality has been so
            poor that consumers refuse to pay for service, even at the prevailing tariffs.'

22. Comprehensive nationwide data on systemperformance do not exist. However, site
visits to different systems revealed the above pattern to be pervasive. In those systems visited
that had received funding under the project none was producing water and maintenance
standards were unacceptably poor. Data collected showed that even if the production
capacity had been operative it would not have been possible to distribute the water because
of failing distribution systems. Project funding to improve water distribution was meager and
only at the very end of the project. Typical operating data for Niger state are summarized in
Table 2.


Table 2. Efficacy of the National Water Rehabilitation Project as measured by
performance indicators for the Niger State Water Board

Proiect Objective and Indicator                                                         1999          2004

Improve the Level of Water Supply Service (Coveragelquality):

Share of urban population connected

Share of population with continuous, 24-hour service

Share of water samples testing bacteriologically safe                                 Unknown       Unknown

Reduce Water Losses

Percentage unaccounted water8                                                           83%         Unknown

(estimated production-estimated consumption)/ estimated production                   (Estimated)   (Estimated)

Strengthen operational, com'mercial,and financial managementof utility

Utility staff productivity (no of staff per thousand households connected to piped
                                                                                          39            38
water system

Working ratio (cash operating expenditurelcash operating revenue)                       273%        Unknown

A number of other performance indicators would have been desirable to obtain, but
                                                                                        N.A.          N.A.
the there is no reliable management information system in the Niger SWB.


23.        Based on the performance indicators, the PPAR rates the efficacy of the project
negligible. Most state water boards simply do not have the clear governance, financial
autonomy and incentives that enable them to serve their populations in an efficient and
sustainable manner. None of the project objectives were met in the case of Niger state.
Financing selected items of equipment in a dysfunctional utility without reforming the
governance and incentives cannot be expected to result in better service. It should also be
noted that many of the data in Table 2 are guesswork since the Niger State Water Board does
not meter either production or consumption. Discussions with SWB officials in other states
and with Bank staff affirm that the situation in other SWBs is analogous to the one in Niger
State. Data for the Kaduna State Water Board are presented under the discussion of the
Multi-State Project.




7. Inits comments on the PPAR the FMWR also notes that Non-Payment for services was should also be
attributed to the decline inper capita GNP.

8. In addition the FMWR states: "the percentage of un-accounted for water, quoted intable 2, on page 14 for the
state (83% ) has been confirmed by the state water agency to be exaggerated."

Efficiency

24. Project data are so scarce that rigorous cost-benefit analysis is impossible. For instance,
without any metering data on production and consumption (as is the case for example in the
Niger State Water Board), it is not possible to compute the economic returns on the
investments that aim at encouraging efficient production and consumption patterns. It stands
to reason, though, that the efficiency of the investments financed by the project has been low
or nil in a situation where expenditures neither increased the quantity of water consumed nor
improved water quality. Under the circumstances, the PPAR rates the efficiency of the
investments as negligible.




25.     The Multi-State Project was implemented by the Kaduna and Katsina State Water
Boards and provided much stronger incentives for the two State Water Boards to implement
the projects speedily and efficiently. Table 3 summarizes objectives, components and costs.


26.     The quality of entry is rated as marginally unsatisfactory. Project objectives stood a
fair chance of being achieved with the components and project implementation selected. The
focus onjust two states (that had been the recipient of two earlier Bank-financed projects)
also facilitated project implementation and enabled improved focus on institutional
strengthening. The project was comprehensive since it comprised both water supply
production and distribution works. And the ability to increase revenue from incremental
water sales increased local ownership. However, the project attempted to do too many things.
This was particularly so in Katsina state where the addition of a rural component to the urban
components stretched implementation capacity and obscured the clear focus of the urban
project.

27.     The monitoring and evaluation under the First Multi-State Water Supply Project was
much improved as compared to the National Water Rehabilitation Project. The First Multi-
State project contained an annex with 16performance indicators, including baseline values
for the initial year 1992 and annual projected values through project completion. The fact
that only two State Water Boards were obliged to collect and report on the perfomlance
indicators facilitated the tracking. However, with the exception of the financial indicators, the
Loan Agreement did not oblige the Borrower State Water Boards to track the 16performance
indicators on an annual basis, nor were these regularly reported in the Bank supervision
reports.

28.     Overall outcome of the First Multi-State Water Supply Project is rated as
moderately unsatisfactory. Project relevance is rated as substantial, efficacy is rated as
modest and efficiency is rated as negligible.

Table 3. Project objectives, components and costs

                                                                                       Planned   Actual
      Objective                                 Components                              (US$      (US$
                                                                                       millionsl millionsl

A. Improvingthe        Kaduna State                                                     121.8     116.9
quantity and             Completion of the water treatment plant, and construction of
reliability of water     transmission, system storage and distribution pipelines at
supplied by the          Ikara.
Water Boards to their    Construction of new regionalwater supply systems at Kwoi
urban areas, and the     and Zonkwa including: intake work, water treatment plants,
health, productivity,    transmission mains and distribution systems and a small dam
health and living        for the Zonkwa system.
standards and            Provision of maintenancevehicles, tools, operational
conditions of women      equipment, and water meters.
and all other persons    Limited rehabilitationof some rural water supply systems.
residing in such       Katsina State
areas.                   Completion of 15 km of water transmission and 65 km of
                         distribution pipelines and elevated storage
                         Construction of a new system to increase the existing water
                         supply at Funtua including a new dam, a water treatment
                         plant, transmission pipeline, system storage and an extended
                         distribution system.
                          Limited expansion of the Daurawater supply system
                         including new boreholes
                         Remedial construction of the dam at Malumfashi.
                         Provision of maintenancevehicles, tools and operational
                         equipment, water meters, and meter testing and repair
                         facilities
                         Limited rehabilitationof some rural systems

B. Strengthening,      Srengthening of Water Boards                                       4.4       9.1
and making             Provision of technical assistance for:
.financiallyself-         Improvement of its operational and maintenance practices
sufficient Kaduna        and procedures, and its management information systems
and Katsina State        Conducting a tariff study including alternativesfor revenue
Water Boards and         collection from public standpipe users
assisting the            Carry out a public relations and hygiene education program to
Borrower in               increase public awareness of the benefits and obligation of
preparing water          the water boards
projects for States of   Assist with the reorganizationof ruralwater supply, prepare
Nigeria other than       State-wide water resources master plans and design studies
the Project States.      and develop plans for sullage disposal, drainage and
                          improved sanitation.
                         Assist preparation by FMWR of future water projects for
                          States of Nigeria other than the Project States
                       Total Cost                                                       126.2     126.0

Relevance

29.       The relevance of the project is rated as substantial. The objectives were consistent
with the needs and could be expected to have direct benefits on poverty alleviation. Being
 confined to only two state water boards the project design was closely aligned with the
 institutional incentive structure because both were responsible for the provision of water
 supply and also for project implementation.

Efficacy

30.       Efficacy is rated as modest. The ICR notes that the Kaduna SWB production
capacity rose from 200,000 m3per day to 380,000 m3per day, and the Katsina SWB
production capacity from 36,000 m3per day to 93,000 m3per day. However, the utilization
of capacity decreased from 68 percent to 49 percent in Kaduna and was similarly constrained
in Katsina state by the customary inadequacy of power supply, lack of operating surplus to
buy fuel oil and maintain the systems, and by a slower-than-forecast investment in water
distribution systems. Adoption of commercial management by the two water boards was
hstrated by the continued unstable economic and political situation.

31.        Site visits to ,theKwoi and Zonkwa systems revealed that none of the two systems
were producing any water at the time. Although the systems might produce water when
power of sufficient voltage returned Zonkwa customers had not received any water for the
last four months prior to the site visit and the Kwoi system seemed to have been out of
commission for some time. Both of these regional systems have a highly complex design, are
poorly maintained, and are therefore vulnerable to breaking down. Data collected on the
operations and service quality for one of the two participating states, Kaduna, are
summarized in Table 4.

Table 4. Efficacy of the First Multi-State Water Supply Project as measured by
performance indicators for the Kaduna State Water Board

Project Objective and Indicator                                               2004             2005

Improve the Level of Water Supply Service (Coveragelquality):

Share of urban population connected                                            25%             24%

Share of population with continuous, 24-hour service                            0%              0%

Share of water samples testing negative for pathogens                          25%             28%

Reduce Water Losses

Percentage unaccounted water                                                   53%             50%

Strengthen operational, commercial, and financial management of utility

Utility staff productivity                                                      51              48

Working ratio                                                                 102%             100%

Percentage unaccounted water = (estimated production-estimated consumption) 1estimated production
Staff productivity=Staff per thousand households served with water
Working ratio=Cash operating costslcash collections


32.       Most state water boards simply do not have the clear governance, financial autonomy
and incentives that would enable then1to serve their populations in an efficient and
sustainable manger. None of the project objectives were fully met in the case of Kaduna state
and their hture achievement is unlikely. Financing selected items of equipment in a
dysfunctional utility without reforming the governance and incentives did not result in better
service.


Efficiency

33.       The efficiency of the investments is rated as negligible. Project data are so scarce that
rigorous cost-benefit analysis is impossible. For instance, even after three Bank projects the
Kaduna State Water Board meters only 18percent of consumers, the majority being the

commercial ones. Without any metering data on production and consumption, it is not
possible to compute the economic returns on the investments. However, the fact that only
about half of the Kaduna State Water Board connections are active and receiving intennittent
water, indicates the underutilization of project investments.


THESMALLTOWNSWATERSUPPLY                 AND SANITATIONPROJECT


34.     The objectives of the Small Towns Project was to pilot a new concept of
identification, implementation and operation of water supplies in small towns. Objectives,
components and costs are summarized in Table 5.

35.     The hnding of the components was small given that this was a pilot project. About
US$3.8 million was expended on equipment and civil works, and another US$2.4 million for
project management and extension services.US$0.3 million was spent on training and
promotion.


The Small Towns Project was implemented at three levels. At the federal level there was a
Federal Project Coordinating Unit (FPCU) staffed with three key staff, one for each of the
participating states of Ebonyi, Katsina, and Niger. These staff served as the link between the
Ministry of Finance that received the Bank disbursements, and the participating states. At the
state level, there was a State Project Coordinating Unit (SPCU) that in turn was the link
between the FPCU and the Water Consumer Associations (WCA) that were established by
each of the 16participating towns. The WCAs drove the project through their clearly
articulated demand for the kind of services they wanted, their ability to collect household
contributions, their choice of operational arrangements   -  all facilitated through a private
operator or by the WCA itself. The SPCU and the FPCU effectively guided and supported
the WCAs.

36.     This evaluation rates the quality of entry as satisfactory. For the first time in the
Bank's lending to urban and semi-urban areas in Nigeria consumers were put in the driver's
seat. First, the WCAs were put in charge of selecting their choice of technology, level of
service and the level and mode of collecting their community contribution that was set at
10percent of the selected investment cost. Second, the WCAs were ,theones that decided on
the operational arrangements, including the level and mode of tariff payments. This new
approach effectively reversed the supply-driven strategies of the National Water
Rehabilitation Project (with the Federal Ministry of Water Resources in Abuja firmly in
control) and the Multi-State Project (with the respective State Water Boards in Kaduna and
Katsina in control).

37.     Monitoring and evaluation under the Small Towns Pilot project faced the challenge of
a demand-based project where it was not certain which towns would finally opt to abide by
the criteria for selection. It was therefore impossible to state beforehand how many additional
households would be served etcetera. However, the Project Appraisal Document and the
Development Credit Agreement paid considerably more attention to the Monitoring and
Evaluation of the Project. Part C.2 of the Credit Agreement specified that "Collection and
analysis of all pertinent data derived from the carrying out ...theProject, including the socio-
economic surveys, dissemination of the results of such analysis and the incorporation of the

lesions learnt into the design of the Borrower's national small town water supply and
 sanitation program." This was in line with the pilot nature of the project. The truth of the
matter is that the PPAR mission found up-to-date and pertinent data on the 16 sub-projects
from the three state project coordinators, attesting to the better systems of M&E under this
project.

Table 5. Project objectives, components and costs

                                                                                            Planned   Actual
         Objective                                   Components                              (US3      (US3
                                                                                            millions) millions)

A. Facilitate sustainable    1.Design and construct pilot water supply and sanitation         9.0       6.2
access to safe water and       facilities:
adequate sanitation by
residents of small towns             Carry out detailed engineering studies required for
through the design and              the constructionof pilot water supply and sanitation
implementalion of pilot             facilities in the Project States.
water supply and
sanitation facilities in             Construct pilot water supply and sanitation facilities
selected small towns                 in selected small towns in the Project States.

B. Determine the most       1. Promote ownership and community participation in the           0.5       0.3
efficient mechanism for        provision of Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities
delivery of sustainable        through carrying out extension activities aimed at
facilities to be replicated    sensitizing water users in selected small towns in the
as appropriate throughout      Project States on the appropriate technical, financial,
Nigeria.                       organizational and instttutionalarrangements required to
                               foster the development of sustainable water supply and
                               sanitation facilities.

                            2. EstablishWater Consumer Associations (WCAs) by
                               communities in small towns in the Project States to
                               manage the operation of water and sanitation facilities
                               efficiently, through the provision of technical advisory
                               services and carrying out workshops and other training
                               activities.

                            3. Support to the Federal Project Coordinating Unit (FPCU)
                               and the State Project Coordination Units (SPCUs) to
                               enable them to cany out their activities under the
                               Project.

                            4. Collection and analysis of all pertinent data derived from
                               the carrying out of the project, including socio-economic
                               surveys, disseminationof the results of such analysis
                               and the incorporation of the lessons learnt into the
                               design of the Borrower's national small town water
                               supply and sanitation program.

                            Total Cost                                                        9.5       6.5


38.         The PPAR rates the composite outcome rating of the Small Towns Project as
satisfactory. Relevance is rated as high, efficacy is rated as substantial and efficiency is rated
as substantial.

Relevance

39.     The relevance of the project is rated high. The objectives were consistent with the
needs in the participating small towns and through the demand-driven methodology. And the
technology, implementation and operations were in line with what the users wanted. At the
time of the preparation and approval of the project there was no Country Assistance Strategy
for Nigeria. However, the project was consistent with the Region's support for .thecountry's
economic and governance renewal, and in particular its commitment to support the country's
poverty reduction efforts.


Efficacy

47.     The experience of the 16participating towns in securing their water supply and
sanitation systems is summarized in Table 6. Based on the performance indicators obtained,
the PPAR rates the efficacy of the project as substantial. Organization of 16communities
and construction of 12water systems was successfully achieved and these 12 systems are
now operational. Another system in Kuta has had construction ongoing for about four years
but difficulties forced a relocation of the intake with subsequent delays. It is now doubtful
whether this system, in its original technical concept, will ever become operational.


Table 6. Efficacy of the Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Pilot Project

Project            Water Supply         Sanitation Units      Working         Staff          Operational
Statemown             Coverage               in Use             ratio     Productivity          status

EBONY1

Amoffia                   0                     0                NA            NA          Not operational

Okposi                    0                     0                NA            NA          Not operational

Ndubia                  100%                   NA                NA            NA          Operational,WCA

KATSlNA

Danmusa                 90%                     7                92%           2.8         Operational, PO

Dandume                 95%                     7                94%           2.7         Operational, PO

Danja                   90%                     7                73%           3.1         Operational, PO

Wagini                  75%                     0               100%           2.1         Operational,WCA

Doro                    85%                     0               100%           1.5         Operational,WCA

Radda                    0%                     0                NA            NA          Not o~erational

NIGER

Kuta                                            7                NA            NA          Not operational

Doko                                            3               170%           3.8         Operational, PO

Wawa                                           40               51%            4.8         Operational,WCA

Rijau                                           7               187%           8.8         Operational,WCA

lzom                                            7               107%           4.6         Operational, PO

Gulu                                            7               86%            1.8         Operational,WCA

Bangi                                           7               70%            3.2         Operational,WCA

Legend: WCA=Water Consumer Association; PO=Private operator; Staff productivity=Staff per thousand
households served with water; Working ratio=Cashoperating costs/cash collections; Sanitation
coverage=Nurnberof latrines in use, constructed under the project

Efficiency

40.     The project efficiency compares the benefits achieved under the project with the costs
expended. Where such a comparison is difficult to make, project efficiency exists when it can
be judged that the benefits were met more cheaply than any other alternative. Project data are
so scarce that rigorous cost-benefit analysis is impossible. For instance, without any metering
data on production and consumption (as is the case for example in the Niger State Water
Board), it is not possible to compute the economic returns on the investments. However,
statistics are available to calculate the cost efficiency of investments for most of the sub-
projects in the project states of Katsina and Niger. The calculations are shown in Table 7.

41.     The table shows a fairly uniform investment cost per beneficiary household in the
order of Naira 26,000 or US$200. This figure applies to 10of the 12towns for which
investment costs are available and corresponds to a per capita investment of around US$15
per member of the household. This is an economical investment cost and attests to the high
efficiency of the project, particularly when the intangible benefits in the form of the creation
of a Water Consumer Association are considered. (The households in these small towns that
have a population of about 30,000 are often quite large.) Two small towns deviate from this
reasonable estimate: Kuta and Rijau in Niger state. The Kuta sub-project is expensive and


Table 7. Cost-Effectiveness of the Small Towns Water Supply Sub-projects

Project          Water Supply      Water Supply        Number of     Investment       Operational
Staten0wn        Investment          Operating         households        Per            status
                (Naira millions)    Costslyear                       household
                                    (Naira '000)                     (Naira '000)

EBONY1

Arnoffia              NA                NA                 NA             NA      Not operational

Okposi                NA                NA                 NA             NA      Not operational

Ndubia                NA                NA                 NA            NA       O~erational,WCA


Danrnusa             34.68                                1,575           22      Operational, PO

Dandurne             47.16                                1,570           30      Operational, PO

Danja                44.96                                1,770           25      Operational, PO

Wagini                                                    1,250           26      Operational,WCA

Doro                                                      1,550           24      Operational,WCA

Radda                 NA                                   NA            NA       Not operational

NIGER

Kuta                                                      1,390           63      Not operational

Doko                                                      1,170           28      Operational, PO

Wawa                                                      980             33      Operational,WCA

Rijau                                                     910             60      Operational,WCA

lzorn                                                     1,140           35      Operational, PO

Gulu                                                      2,180           7       Operational,WCA

Bangi                34.87              45                1,120           31      Operational,WCA

Legend: WCA=Water Consumer Association; PO=Private operator

highly complex and may never become operational. On the basis of cost-efficiency, the
PPAR rates the efficiency of the Small Towns Project as high.


3.         Institutional Development Impact

42.       The three projects clearly demonstrate that decentralization and stakeholder
participation in project design and implementation is a successful strategy. Because the
process gradually evolved through these three projects, the institutional development impact
of the National Water Rehabilitation Project is rated as negligible, while that for the Multi-
State Project improves to modest because it moved away from central top-down control.
Finally, the institutional development facilitated by the Small Towns Project achieved a
substantial rating for institutional development. The rationale for these ratings is elaborated
below.

43.        The lack of institutional development associated with the National Project can be
gauged from Table 8 that compares selected administrative and financial indicators of the
Niger State Water Board with international benchmarks.

Table 8. Niger State Water Board performance versus benchmark indicators

                                     Performance measure                                  NSWB Benchmark

Utility staff productivity (no of staff per thousand households connected to piped water   39      2
system (proxy for computerization and specialization through outsourcing)

Percentage of billings collected (proxy for commercial efficiency)                         43%   98%

Number of pipe-breaks per km distribution per year (proxy for maintenance)                 1.6    0.1

Non-revenue water (proxy for commercial and operating efficiency)                          83%   15%

Percentage of connections metered (proxy for commercial and operating efficiency)          0%    100%


44.       It is clear that the Niger State is far away from the international benchmarks for
administrative and financial efficiency. The problem is not only organizational efficiency but
with the whole system of governance. Lack of sector policies, laws and regulations, and even
hardware and software, provide few incentives for utility managers and staff to perform.
Although the National Water Rehabilitation Project expended substantial sums on
consultancies, these were for Federal Ministry of Water Resources and were not tailored to
the will of individual states.

45. Similarly evidence from the Kaduna State Water Board shows that it has not yet
approached the international benchmarks for administrative and financial efficiency
(Table 9.)

46.       Kaduna's institutional performance is better in many respects than other state water
boards in Nigeria because of the cumulative effect of the utility's exposure to international
managerial experience enabled by the three Bank loans. Even so, this positive impact is
muted by the antiquated system of utility governance and the politicization of the tariff
setting process. In consequence iiistitutional development impact is rated modest.

Table 9. Kaduna State Water Board performance versus benchmark indicators

                                     Performance measure                                NSWB Benchmark

Utility staff productivity (no of staff per thousand households connectedto pipedwater   48      2
system (proxy for computerizationand specializationthrough outsourcing)

Percentageof billings collected(proxy for commercialefficiency)                         82%    98%

Level of accounts receivable in days of average billings                                 350    60

Non-revenuewater (proxy for commercialand operating efficiency)                          50%   15%

Percentageof connections metered (proxy for commercialand operating efficiency)          18%   100%


47. Finally, the successful focus on local ownership and stakeholder participation led to a
rating of substantial institutional development under the Small Towns Project. First, the
project managed to create Water Consumer Associations in 16 small towns that each
contributed towards the investment cost over a number of months. Second, the project
established Project CoordinationUnits both at the Federal and State levels. The PCUs were
small and effective and can now be redeployed for similar projects in other states. Third, the
Small Towns project created a monitoring and evaluation system that is far superior to
anything managed under the National Water Rehabilitation and First Multi-State Water
Supply projects. Those two projects, and particularly the National Rehabilitation Project,
tracked mainly contracts and not the desired final result: operational water supply systems.



4.         Sustainability

48.        The sustainability of the National Water Rehabilitation and the Multi-State
Water Supply projects investments is rated as unlikely. Experience has shown that the
most essential conditions for sustainabilityrefer to the technical, financial, institutional,
incentive, and political aspects of the operations of the assets financed under the project. All
five are doubtful for the following reasons:

           The technical sustainability is in question because of the insufficient maintenance of
           assets in the State Water Boards because cash operational revenue is typically
           considerably below cash operating costs, leaving nothing for maintenance.
           Furthermore, the unreliable and low-quality power supply regularly damages the
           electro-mechanical equipment as demonstrated during the PPAR field visits.
           The financial feasibility does not exist since State Water Boards typically have
           working ratios (cash operating costs/cash operating revenue) much above
           100percent. As a consequence, the State Water Boards depend on the State
           governments for unreliable cash subsidies to purchase fuel oil to operate the standby
           generators that could supplement for the unreliable power supply.
           The institutional feasibility hardly exists in the SWBs that lack autonomy because of
           their utter dependence on State governments for tariff approvals and, in their absence,
           on cash handouts. Many SWBs are forced to have their staff salaries supplemented
           from the State governmentbudgets which cements their dependence;
           Incentives for improvement hardly exist where the General Manager and staff do not
           reap any benefits for trying to improve the financial situation, for instance by going
           after public clients who may be powerful politically.

        Finally, but most importantly, political feasibility is notable by its absence. State
         governments have neither approved nor implemented legislation and regulation that
        would introduce predictability in the provision of water supply services, nor provided
         strong and sustained political support to the SWBs to enable them improve the quality
        of services.

49.     The resilience to risk of net benefits flowing from the technical, financial,
institutional, incentive, and political aspects of the Small Towns Project is rated as likely for
the following reasons:

        The technical sustainability is ensured for the 12 systems that are now operational.
        Twelve of the systems rely on groundwater, some with motorized pumps with
         standby generators to replace the faltering NEPA power supply, and one system relies
        on surface water. Achieving 12 out of 16 operational systems must be rated
         satisfactory and with likely sustainability, particularly since only one out of 16
         systems was operational at the time of the closing of the credit in 2004.
         The financial feasibility exists for 8 out 11 systems for which financial data were
         available at the time of the PPAR. These systems had working ratios equal or below
         100percent, showing that the collections from the consumers were enough to pay for
        cash operating costs. There is no debt service since the works were given as grants to
        the participating small towns. The remaining five small towns with working ratios
         above 100 percent or without data are presumably using other forms of subsidies and
        transfers to pay for the costs of operations, particularly since the private operators
        would otherwise simply abandon the systems.
         The institutional sustainability exists since Water Consumer Associations have been
         set up in all 16 small towns and have assumed the onus of arranging for satisfactory
        operational arrangements in the 12 systems that were completed.
        Incentives for improvement do exist as proved by the fact that only one system was
        operational at the time of the credit closing in 2004 whereas now 12 out of 16 systems
        are operational. Work is continuing on the remaining four systems. The contractor for
        the Kuta system continues his activities, and the contracts on the Arnoffia and Okposi
         sub-projects in Ebonyi state will likely be tendered again to finish these two sub-
        projects for which the contractors were terminated due to unsatisfactory performance.
        However, much of the investment on these systems has been made and it stands to
        reason that the Water Consumer Associations have a strong incentive to complete the
        works into which they put so much of their savings.
        Finally but most importantly, the political feasibility does exist since there is positive
        alignment between the interests of the benefiting small towns and their power to act
        through their respective Water Consumer Associations.



5.      Bank and Borrower Performance



50.    Bank performance is measured by the quality at entry of the project and by the quality
of supervision during project implementation. Bank performance on the National Water

Rehabilitation Project is rated unsatisfactory for both. With the hindsight of four failed
water supply projects at the time of the preparation and processing of the project, it should
have been obvious that the National Project stood no chance of succeeding without radical
reform of the framework for the operation. It should not have come as a surprise that the
mere purchase and installation of selected pieces of equipment stood little or no chance of
improving service without reforms that could guarantee the sustainability. The design of the
project was unbalanced and unviable since funding was only allowed for production
increases, and since financing for distribution works that might have sold the additional water
was left undefined. The quality of supervision was unsatisfactory because of the difficulties
of influencing 36 SWBs via the Federal Ministry of Water Resources in Abuja. Hence, both
quality at entry and supervision quality are rated unsatisfactory.

5 1.    The Multi-State Project represented a considerable improvement over the National
Project but neglected to push for reforms in the way in which the Kaduna and Katsina State
Water Boards were governed and with regard to the autonomy and predictable policies
needed to promote sustainability, not the least in the area of tariff setting. The quality of
supervision was marginally unsatisfactory because of the greater ease of supervising two
rather than 36 SWBs as under the National Water Rehabilitation Project. Given that quality
at entry was unsatisfactory and supervision quality is rated marginally unsatisfactory, overall
Bank performance for the Multi-Sate project is rated unsatisfactory.

52.     The quality at entry of the Small Towns Project was satisfactory. Its demand-driven
concept was innovative in the Nigerian context and broke the pattern of the previous six
supply-driven projects. Bank supervision was energetic and effective with the Bank missions
traveling extensively with the Nigerian counterparts to each of the 16participating small
towns. Thus the Bank performance of the Small Towns Project is rated satisfactory.




53.     Borrower performance is rated on the borrower's contributions to the original project
design and on project implementation. Both were unsatisfactory for the National and Multi-
State projects and overall Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory. The Borrower
should have been aware of the flawed quality at entry that offered little if any chance of
meeting the project's development objectives. The Borrower could have been expected to be
more aware than the Bank of the factors that justified rating the Bank performance as
unsatisfactory. Subsequently a number of additional risks to orderly project implementation
were not properly mitigated although these were under Government control. These negative
factors included the unreliable NEPA power supply, the scarcity of petroleum projects which
caused spikes in the prices of fuel oil and negatively affected the State Water Boards, the
governance problems associated with frequent changes of SWB management and with undue
political interference in their running, changes in import procedures, and instability in
management at the state government levels. Although many of these problems were outside
the control the National and Multi-State projects, these nevertheless deeply affected project
implementation and operations.

54.     By the time of the Small Town Project the Borrower had internalized the reasons for
design failings of the earlier projects and adopted a new and successful approach. This leads
to a satisfactory rating for Borrower performance. The reasons for improved performance

are the economical and effective project coordination at the federal and state levels and the
active role that the Water Consumer Associations played. One gratifying aspect with the
Small Towns Water Supply project was the improved monitoring and evaluation system
that was set up and effectively applied. All 16the sub-projects were regularly visited and
there was good collaboration wit11 each of the Water Consumer Associations. The overview
reports published by the FPCU provided the necessary project data and evaluation of the
status of each project that enabled most implementation problems to be mitigated effectively
and quickly. There was one case of misprocurement at the federal level in the early years of
the Small Town Project but the canceled funds were reinstated from the Nigerian Ministry of
Finance.

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet



Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)

                              Appraisal               Actual or        Actual as percent of
                               estimate            current estimate     appraisal estimate

Total project costs             306.7                   294.6                 96%

Of which

    physical investments        277.0

    technical assistance         29.7                   54.0                  182%

Loan amount         -           256.0                   250.1                 98%



Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements

                        FY93 FY94     FY95    FY96    FY97     FY98  FY99    FYOO     FYOl

Appraisal estimate     32,8   77,8    134,3   185,2   223,5    246.8 250.4   253.2    256.0

Actual (US$M)           17.8  24.6    40.0    77.9    138.0    174.2 189.9   231.3    250.4

Actualaspercentof       54%   32%     30%     42%     62%       70%   76%     91%      98%
estimate

Date of Final disbursement:          June 30,2001



Project Dates

                                           Original                      Actual

Identification (PCD)                        3/87                          3/87

Appraisal                                  05/90                          05/90

Board Approval

Effectiveness

Mid-term Review                            06/96                          06/96

Loan Closing                               06/99                          06/01

Mission Data

                                                                           Performance rating*
                      Date        NO. of         specialization     --- ---                     . -
                   (month/year) persons          represented**       Implementation    Development
                                                                          status        objectives

 Identification1
 Preparation

 Appraisal1          03/92          2       EGR, FA
 Negotiation
                     06/92          2       2 EGR

                      12/92        4        2 EGR, FA, Resident

 Supervision 1                              EGR, FA

 Supervision 2                              EGR, FA

 Supervision 3                              3 EGR, TRAINING C.

 Supervision 4                              2 EGR, TRAINING C.

 Supervision 5                              2 EGR. TRAINING C.

 Supervision 6                              2 EGR, FA, CONS

 Supervision 7                              2 EGR, FA, CONS

 Supervision 8                              2 EGR

 Supervision 9                              2 EGR, ME, FA,
                                            3 CONS

 Supervision 10                             2 EGR, FA

 Supervision 11                             2 EGR, FA, E,
                                            ADM.SEC

 Supervision 12                             2 EGR

 Supervision 13                             2 EGR

 Supervision 14                             TM, EGR, FA

 Supervision 15                             TM, 2 EGR, FA

 Supervision 16                             TM, EGR, FA, CONS,
                                            TA

 ICR Preparation     07/00          5       TM, EGR, FA, E, CONS            S               S

* S = Satisfactory

** TM=Task Manager; EGR=Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; E = Economist; CONS = Consultant

FIRSTMULTI-STATEWATERSUPPLYPROJECT(CREDIT2372-UNI)

Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)

                                               Appraisal              Actual or              Actual as percent of
                                                estimate           current estimate            aipipraisal estimate
                                                                                                  ..
 Total project costs                             126.2                  126.0                            100%

 Of which

     physical investments                        121.8                  116.9                            96%

     technical assistance                         4.4                    9.1                            207%

 Loan amount                                     101.O                  99.6                             99%


Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements

                      FY93                 FY9   FY95   FY96   FY97    P/98        FY99   FYOO          FYOl    FYOZ


Appraisal estimate                     3.2 10.0  26.9   54.1    79.4   93.2         99.2  100.1         100.1   100.1

Actual (US$M)                          2.4  6.4  12.2   33.3    52.4   69.8         86.5   93.2          99.6   99.6

Actual as percent                      75   64    45     62     66      75          87       93          93      93
----
of estimate
     -*-----            -"%-----------                                   --m-*,+w--      7---w---*----m

 Date of Final disbursement: April 18, 2006


Project Dates

                                                           Original                                Actual

 Identification (PCD)

 Appraisal

 Board Approval

 Effectiveness

 Mid-term Review

 Loan Closing                                               09199                                    09100

Mission Data
.-.---  -        -------                        --
          -**-                                                                                            - ~-"."-
                             =                    -.--
                               "-a-  -<-.-s-          mat--""-...,#       ---*   <w.---wm--e-         "Srn



                                                                                              --- - - - - --.--.-- -- ---
                                                                                                     Performance rating*
                      Date                  No. of                 Specialization                        -        .          -
                   (month/year)       persons                      represented**              Implementation Development
                                                                                                    status         obiectives

 Identification1      09187                  1      EGR
 Preparation
                      11/87                  1      FA

                      06/90                  1      EGR

                      07/90                  1      EGR

                      02191                  1      EGR

 Appraisal1           07192                  2      2 EGR
 Negotiation
                      11/92                  1      EGR

                      12/92                  1      EGR

                      03/93                  4      2 EGR. FA. Resettle.

 Supervision 1                                      EGR, Rural water

 Supervision 2                                      3 EGR, ENV

 Supervision 3                                      2 EGR, TRAINING C.

 Supervision 4                                      EGR

 Supervision 5                                      3 EGR, RW, FA, Train.

 Supervision 6                                      2 EGR, FA, CONS

 Supervision 7                                      EGR

 Supervision 8                                      3 EGR, FA

 Supervision 9                                      EGR

 Supervision 10                                     EGR,FA, E, RW


 Supervision 11                                     2 EGR, FA, RW, Resettl.

 Supervision 12                                     EGR

 Supervision 13                                     TM, EGR, Resettl., RW

 Supervision 14                                     TM, EGR, FA, RW, TA, R.

 Supervision 15                                     3 EGR, CONS

 Supervision 16                                     TM, CL, TA, RM

 ICR Preparation      09/00                  11     TM, ML, FA, EGR, E,
                                                    FMS, PO, SOC, PARTTA,
                                                    CONS.

* S = Satisfactory

** TM=Task Manager; EGR=Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; E = Economist; CONS = Consultant,

SMALL TOWNSWATERSUPPLY                                               AND SANITATIONPILOT(CREDIT                                  3350-UNI)

Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
                                                                                                                  ---
         --*..-a                                                                   ----"
                    *a---wA--    ----------"--<                               w e       -p*-"-       --a  -**--**    p"Mw---p-

                                                      Appraisal                                Actual or             Actual as percent of
                                                       estimate                         current estimate              appraisal estimate

 Total project costs                                       9.0

 Of which

       physical investments                                9.0

       technical assistance                                0.5                                   0.3                                 60%

----"------
 Loan amount                                               5.0                              ----3.7                                  75%
                                                                     --,--                                                                           -a




Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
                                                      --                  "--."-".                                 -
     * -..-*                                             -"                        .-
              m*-"-- *                          -""             u u m                         %                         * - - b e  --*"----  *-**,  "" m."

                                                   FYOO              FYOI             FY02            FY03           FY04                      FY05

Appraisal estimate                                 0.7               2.2               4.0              4.5             4.5                      4.5

Actual (US$M)                                      0.0               0.7               0.9              1.2             2.7                      3.7

Actual as percent of                                0                 32                23              27              60                        82
estimate

 Date of final disbursement:                           April 18,2006


Project Dates
".--.----,--                                         -----------                                                                                  -    .
                                                                                Original                                    Actual

 Identification (PCD)                                                            11198                                        11/98

 Appraisal                                                                       01199                                        01199

 Board Approval

 Effectiveness

 Mid-term Review

 Loan Closing

  Mission Data

                                                                                     Performance rating*
                         Date        No. of         Specialization      - -            -   - - -- --    - --

                      (month/year)  persons         represented**       Implementation           Development
                                                                                  status          objectives

Identification1
                                       4         CL, TL, EGR, FMS
Preparation

Appraisal1                                       Country Dir., LEG,
                         10199         3
Negotiation                                      EGR

                                                 CL, TL, 2 EGR, FMA,
Supervision 1            12/00         6                                             S                S
                                                 CONS

Supervision 2           08/01          2         TL, EGR                             S                S

                                                 CL, TL, 2 EGR, FMA,
Supervision 3                          6
                                                 COMMUNITY DEV.

Supervision 4           02/02          3         TL, EGR, SOC                        S                S

                                                 TL, 2 EGR, PO,
Supervision 5                          5
                                                 2 FMS

Supervision 6           02/03          3         TL, EGR, CONS                       U                S

Supervision 7           09/03          4         TL, PO, EGR, FMS                    S                S

                                                 TL, EGR, FMS,
Supervision 8                          4
                                                 CONS

Su~ervision9            03/04          3         EGR, 2 CONS                         U                U

                                                 TL, WATER RES.
ICR Preparation         06/04          2                                             U                U
                                                 SPEC
                                     -----
"-'wm.m"w.--.~p                                                        --------"-wp,-
  * S = Satisfactory

  ** TM=Task Manager; EGR=Engineer; FA = Financial Analyst; E = Economist; CONS = Consultant,
  FMS=Financial Management Systems, CL=Cluster Leader, LEG=Legal Counsel, SOC=Sociologist

Annex B. Borrower Comments



June 8,2006




Mr. Alain Barbu
Manager
Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) of the World Bank



Dear Mr Barbu,

I am directed to refer to your letter dated 10thMay, 2006 and to forward the comments of the
Federal Government of Nigeria on the Draft Project Performance Assessment Report on
National Water Rehabilitation Project (LN 3322-UNI), First Multi-State Water Supply
Project (CR 2732-UNI) and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project (CR 3350-
UNI) for your information and hrther necessary action. The comments are attached to this
mail. Kindly acknowledge the receipt, please.

Regards,

Engr. Ajisegiri, Benson
Federal Ministry of Water Resources
Government of Nigeria

                                  BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON
               DRAFT PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT ON
     NATIONAL WATER REHABILITATION PROJECT (LN 3322-UNI), FIRST
  MULTI-STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (CR 2372-UNI) & SMALL TOWNS
        WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PILOT PROJECT (CR 3350-UNI)

Introduction

1.       We have carehlly studied the report, including its objective, the methodology of field
survey, the tools used, the adequacy of statistical sampling employed, the key indicators of
each project and conclusions regarding their performance.

2.       We accepted the rationale behind the study and found the exercise useful. We also
agreed that effective M & E system is central to the success of any project delivery, as
demonstrated under Small Town Water Supply and Sanitation Project.

3.       However, we found the statistical samplingto be inadequate (2 states were visited out
of 36 states and 3 schemes were inspected on National Water Rehabilitation Project (NWRP)
as against 188 schemes rehabilitated) and noted that most of the conclusions were based on
floating data that were neither anchored to the established baseline values nor referenced to
the agreed target figures. In particular, the report, in our opinion, under rated the
achievements of NWRP and to some extent, the first Multi-State Water Supply Project. To
state that, institutional development impact is negligible for the former and modest for the
later, is an erroneous and misleading conclusion. What appears to be generally lacking in this
report, is inadequate appreciation of historical contexts, within which each project was
identified, designed and implemented.

Historical Perspective

4.       It may be noted that the NWRP (1992-1999 extended to 2001) was implemented at
the time the country was passing through numerous policy and political changes and these
influenced its design in a substantial manner. The project development was during the
structural adjustment programme of 1986-1993.It came into effect in 1992when slippages in
fiscal discipline and public resource management led to withdrawal of Bank and IMF
adjustment supports, during the time, large fiscal deficits were recorded and economic
growth stagnated. GNP per capita declined from US$, 1,180in 1980to US$260 in 1995.
Income inequality increased and according to CBN statistics, 34% of the population was
classified as poor with basic social indicators then placing Nigeria among the 20 poorest
countries worldwide.

5.       Real wages of public employees, including employees of the States Water Agencies,
decreased approximately by a factor of 10(1986-1997).Inflation, which peaked at 72.9% in
1995, averaged 38% annually (1987-97). The ratio of wages of the State Water Agencies'
employees to those of comparable positions in the private sector is about 1:25.

State Water Agencies

6.      At the commencement of NWRP, most state water agencies were still regarded as
mere extension of civil services with the same systems of budgeting, accounting, billing and
collection, stores procedures and general procurement, whereas it was known that these
systems were not designed to be flexible and fit for a commercialized enterprise. In most
SWAs, water revenues were paid direct into the consolidated revenue head of the State
Government. Hence, expenditures in the SWAs had to await release of funds allocation on
quarterly basis from the State Governments. These were the issues that were faced at the
inception of the project.

Other specific issues raised in the report and our response to each of them are as follows:-

Findings and Lessons

Country and Sector Background.

Paragraph 3:

7.      The precarious situation of water supply in Nigeria is such that has made it
compulsory for the various levels of government to collaborate for meaning solutions. Hence
water supply cannot be left as the sole responsibility of State Governments without the
intervention of the Federal Government. It should be noted that the Federal Government,
through the FMWR, continued to invest over US100million dollars, every year on water
supply infrastructural development. This considerable effort should be acknowledged.

8.      Besides, the department of water supply and quality control has database of federal
assisted water supply infrastructural asset, and this is readily available. What is being done
now under the current MDG tracking system is to build among others, a consolidated
database, where the facilities constructed by all diverse stakeholders are captured and geo-
referenced.

Paragraph 4:

9.      The objectives of NWRP are captured in table 1 of the report on page 12,whilst the
IEG defines the project outcome in the preparatory page as the extent to which the project
major objectives was achieved.

10.     Arising from above, we examined the key indicators of table 2 on page 14 and
identified them as (i) the service coveragelquality; (ii) reduction of un-accounted for water
and (iii) operational performance of the state water agencies. We noted that neither the
baseline figures nor the target values were given for comparative analysis. Besides, only
three out of the 188rehabilitated schemes were visited and thereby wondered how the PRAR
came to the conclusion that the project was highly unsatisfactory.

11.     The same error was repeated in Table 4, page 17 for Kaduna State, as floating data
were given without anchorage to baseline values nor tied to the target figures. The biggest

lesson for all is that due diligence in project preparation (including M&E framework) is the
most important contributing factor in the success of any proiect.

12.     On coverage indicator, the PRAR apparently used the total number of house
connections, the average number of persons per household, estimated population in the
service, but appeared to have ignored the standpipes and the significant roles they play in
facilitating access and expanding coverage. This was not considered in Niger State. In
addition the percentage of un-accounted for water, quoted in table 2, on page 14 for the state
(83% ) has been confirmed by the state water agency to be exaggerated.

Paragraph 5:

13.     The reasons adduced for improving trend in the project outcome, in our opinion, has
nothing to do with the gradual shift in the implementation role from the central government
to the local communities; but rather on the gradual simplicity of the successive projects, the
gradual re-building of capacity in the sector and the increasing ease of supervision
arrangenieiits (two states for instance, in case of multi- state and extremely simple
technological mix in case of small town; compared to NWRP covering 36 states with FCT
and about 188 water supply systems of diverse technological mix, having combined capacity
of 1,800,000m3/day, located in diverse service zones for consumers with varied socio     -

economic and demographic profile). At the time the NWRP was conceived, (Ref: historical
perspective above), local implementation in the mould of the small town mechanism, would
have been unworkable.

Paragraph 6:

14.     The NWRP was basically a maintenance project as it was only meant to restore the
capacity of existing water supply systems to their initial design capacities. Hence, there was
no investment in new capacities, contrary to the impression given in the paragraph. Further
details of maintenance efforts under the NWRP are discussed in paragraph 11.

Lessons learnt

Para~raph7: Lesson One: The tracking of the targets under the Millennium
Development Goals (MDG) must improve to account for the water supply service
deficiencies of Nigeria.

15.     The lesson is noted and accepted. But it is rather surprising that PRARjumped to
declare that "Nigeria is highly unlikely to meet the MDG Water Supply and Sanitation
targets", without adequate review of the current efforts of the government.

16.     It may be noted that the government has designed necessary road maps for various
classes of settlements- urban, semi-urban, small towns and rural. Furthermore, the whole
sector is being reformed by; (i) revising the existing water supply and sanitation policy, (ii)
encouraging public-private partnership, (iii) empowering local communities and water
consumer associations, (iv) developing water and sanitation regulatory guidelines, (v)
developing low-income household service strategies, (vi) designing MDG-tracking system
and (vii) streamlining donors intervention. The investment in the sector has also increased

and the collaborative arrangements amongst the three tiers of government are being
strengthened for the purpose of mobilizing and applying investment towards quantifiable
results.

Para~raph10: Lesson Two: Effective coordination between central, state and local
governments requires demand-driven approaches where the consumers have the
initiative.

17.     It is erroneous to state that FMWR controlled the NWRP tightly. Each of the State
Water Agencies had project decision making machinery for (i) reviewing and approving the
procurement plans, (ii) clearing the contract evaluation reports; and (iii) making other key
decisions regarding the direction of subproject and sub-loan covenants. In addition, there was
project steering committee, headed by state project liaison officer, to oversee activities of the
consultants and their contractors. Although the project accounts were kept in Abuja, not a
single cent was disbursed without due authorization of SWAs Chief Executive Officers.

18.     Every month, project management took place in the state, where relevant operational
issues were treated and realistic time bound solutions were effected. Through this approach,
capacities were built within a very short time and majority of them today can now
confidently review technical reports, procure and administer goods, works and services
contract and also prepare acceptable financial management reports. It is on this solid
foundation that Bank's support to the sector is being built.

Paragraph 11. Lesson Three: Maintenance merits priority new works.

19.     As it was stated in paragraph above, NWRP is not about new works, but indeed, an
intensive maintenance project. On the issue of public power supply, it is too simplistic for
PRAR to assume that NWRP did not pay attention to ensuring reliable power from the state
owned power holding company. The poor state of electricity sector in Nigeria during the time
of NWRP is well documented and any solution about it was outside the scope of NWRP.

20.     The alternative was the massive importation of diesel engine generators to run (not
just as standby) the rehabilitated water supply schemes. Some of these generators were
physically inspected during the evaluation mission, (though some found idle, but in stable
state) because they are normally put into use for limited period of time, based on the
available cash, depending on the ability and willingness of people to pay for the service.

21.     As for the policy measure, it may be added NWRP produced comprehensive policy
instruments that cut across the whole gamut of water supply services, starting from source
works (dam, boreholes etc) to treatment plants, pumping stations, power stations and
distribution network. The document not only covered equipment coding and invention, but
also included such subjects as, maintenance scheduling, budgeting, work method, etc. In
additions, the operatives were given OJT to operationalise them.

22.     Towards the tail end of the project two sets of TA consulting services were procured
by the SWAs. The first was on technical aspects of their operation (which includes plant
operation and maintenance, laboratory practice, distribution network mapping, customer
enumeration and socio-economic survey, water audit and tariff modeling; and preparation of

water supply master plan), whilst the second was on financial aspects of their operation
(which includes improved budgeting and accounting, billing and collection, purchasing and
supply, asset re-valuation and deployment of management information system -MIS).

It is regrettable that these instruments were neglected as soon as the NWRP came to an end.

23.      On a final note, our experience has shown that preventive maintenance programme is
not only about finance. In most cases, it has to do more with corporate culture, the quality of
first line supervision and general management over sight.


Paragraph 12: Lesson Four: Demand - driven projects demand adequate community
development.

24.      The comments are noted. The only concern however is that once a community is
presented with a menu of technological choices and same is supported with financial
implications (initial and running costs) and on that basis, an option is adopted by them, it
may be very difficult for any one to influence their position, especially if they believed that
they have made an informed choice. This is the dilemma of demand driven approach, even
when a ceiling on the capitalized value is set


The National Water Rehabilitation Project

Paragraph 15:

25.      Substantial part of the foregoing section has been devoted to correction of
inaccuracies observed in the PRAR. Additional observations are stated here under:

26.      It is vital to state that the FMWR is not as "inexperienced" in the delivery of Water
Supply Project as the report had portrayed in this section. The fact that the project was
centrally co-coordinated in Abuja did not mean that it was tightly controlled as discussed in
the report. Given the conditions of the State Water Agencies at the commencement of the
project, it will certainly be risky to entrust the whole implementation solely into their hands.

27.      Now with the hindsight of history and the benefit of modem thinking on public
expenditure management, it is still believed that the arrangement of NWRP was the best in
view of prevailing circumstance of that time.

28.      On the issue of admixture of investment and reform, it is noted that, with the
exception of one or two States, the level of reform needed for others was basically similar.
On the issue of funding, same amount was given, as the investment required in the state with
the least need, was far in excess of US$10.0 Million given.

29.      It is also not correct to state that SWAs were less enthusiastic about participation on
the project. This can be confirmed from the quality of attendance at site meetings, project
review workshops and the quality of reception given each time they were visited. There are
several volumes of correspondences in our achieves to buttress this clear position.

Paragraph 16:

30.      On the adequacy of project components and the implementation arrangement, we do
not agree that the project component was inadequate and project implementation
arrangement improper. On the project component, what may appear to be missing is the
distribution network in the service zones. (Including densification and extension). Here the
greatest challenge was the non-availability of water to pressurize the pipelines with a view to
establishing their structural integrity. It is therefore logical that, production plants have to be
restored first, full services restored, and then comprehensive leakage detection be carried out
with a view to packaging bid document to address the distribution problem. Network
problems can only be properly addressed when the water pressure is adequate.

Paragraph 18: Efficacy

31.      The point that production value rose from 720,000n3/dayto 1,420,000n3/daywas a
fact at the time the measurement was carried out, and the report produced. In case of variance
between ICR and IEG, the pertinent questions that the report ought to raise include:


         (i)     When were the measurements carried out; and
         (ii)    What tools did each group use?

Until the two questions are answered, it may be difficult to conclude that efficacy objective
was not achieved.

32.      As a follow-up to above, several explanations were given as reasons for failure to
achieve the desired results, which in our opinion, are not fully correct. The most surprising is
the position by PRAR that the capacity was not recovered because the pumps were procured
by FMWR and installed. This statement is in conflict with engineering principles.

33.      Specification were drafted by the best available international consulting firnl (from
Europe, Canada, and Asia), with active participation of SWAs officials as no design was
completed without their inputs.

The First Multi-State Water Supply Project

Paragraph 8:

Lack of Pumping for four months

34.      The town being referred to was Zonkwa. At the time of the visit, the Water Treatment
Works at Manchok was in operation. The pumps were running and there was water in the
Clear Water Tank. The service area of the scheme included Manchok, Kaura, Kagoro,
Zonkwa, Samaru Kataf, and Zango. It was a wrong conclusion that water has not been
available for four months from the scheme. What could have been reported was for Zonkwa
town only and not the entire service area.

Paragraph 20:

Sector Priorities

35.     The sector priority advocated by the PRAR was concentrated on the concept of
Private Operator. The FMWR focused on capacity building to strengthen the SWAs. This
concept should not have been condemned completely. It is also a feasible option. Another
feasible option too could be Performance Contract. It is a wrong conclusion that that the only
incentive was that of Private Operator.

Paragraph 21:

Non-Payment for Services

36.     Non-Payment for services was attributed completely on intermittent service delivery
and poor quality. The decline in Per Ca. GNP was also a strong factor.

Paragraph 22:

System Performance

37.     The PPAR mentioned that none of the systems visited was producing water. This is
not entirely correct as only Kwoi was not producing water at the time of the visit. That is not
to say that it was not operational. The Water Works is being operated at night when the
voltage was usually high enough to run the pumps. The other schemes of Kaduna South and
Zonkwa were in operation at the time of the visit. This conclusion should be corrected.

Paragraph 23:

Non-Production from the tree systems of Ikara, Kwoi and Zonkwa

38.     Ikara was not visited to conclude as sucli. For comments on Kwoi and Zonkwa refer
to 44 above.

