Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4800 RU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Cadastre Development Project) 
 
between 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 24, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4800 RU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 2005, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Cadastre Agency” means the Federal Agency for Cadastre of 
Immovable Property of the Borrower or any successor thereto; 
 
(b) 
“FCC Zemlya” means the Federal State Unitary Enterprise Federal 
Cadastre Center Zemlya or any successor thereto; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“PIU” means the project implementation unit referred to in Section 6.01 
of this Agreement;  
 
(e) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
December 16, 2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(f) 
“Project Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower, represented by the MOF and the Cadastre Agency, and the 
PIU pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement; and 
 
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
Page  6
-
4
-
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Cadastre Agency with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
cadastral and real estate registration practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare, or cause to 
be prepared, financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower through the Cadastre Agency and with the assistance of 
the PIU  shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the Cadastre Agency and the PIU to: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  8
-
6
-
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement the Borrower shall cause the 
Cadastre Agency and the PIU to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring 
report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The PIU shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Implementation Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the Project Implementation Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to 
materially and aversely affect the ability of the Borrower or the PIU to carry out the 
Project. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in Section 5.01 
Page  9
-
7
-
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely,  that the Project Implementation Agreement, satisfactory to 
the Bank, has been entered into between the Borrower, represented by  the MOF and the 
Cadastre Agency, and the PIU with staff, resources and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ilyinka Street 9 
 
103097
Moscow 
 
Russian Federation 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
112008 
  (7-095) 
925-0889 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Moscow, Russian Federation, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
 
By /s/   Mikhail V. Mishustin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/   Kristalina I. Georgieva
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) 
Goods, including 
75,900,000 
100% of foreign 
 inland 
transportation 
 
expenditures, 
 
and related insurance, 
 
100% of local 
 
and technical services 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 81% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants' 
17,700,000 
79% of expenditures 
 
services, including 
 
for consulting firms, 
 
audit 
 
87% of expenditures 
 
for individual  
 
consultants, and 
 
100%
of  eligible 
 
social charges 
 
(3) Training 
4,000,000 
100% 
 
(4)     Operating costs 
2,400,000 
 
100% of  eligible 
 
 
social charges, 
 
87%
of staff salaries 
 
and 80% of other 
 
expenditures 
 
TOTAL 100,000,000
Page  12
-
10
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “training”  means expenditures for Project related study tours, 
training courses, seminars, workshops and other training activities not included under 
goods or service providers’ contracts, including costs of training materials, space and 
equipment rental, travel and per diem costs of trainees and trainers;  
 
(d) 
the term “social charges” means the employer’s contribution to social 
and medical funds assessed by the Borrower in respect of employment contracts 
concluded with citizens of the Borrower; and 
 
(e) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental operating costs incurred by  
the PIU on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
staff salaries, social charges, office rent and utilities, office and equipment maintenance 
and repair, vehicle maintenance and repair, local travel, communication, translation and 
interpretation, bank charges, and by the Cadastre Agency on account of office equipment 
maintenance and repair, communication and Project related local travel, and other 
miscellaneous costs directly associated with the Project, all based on periodic budgets 
acceptable to the Bank.   
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $300,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
February 1, 2005; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 
1
above, unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for all operating costs and training 
and for expenditures under contracts for goods and services not subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review, as stipulated in the Procurement Plan, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the information flow and rationalize 
normative and operational procedures for the Unified State Cadastre of Immovable 
Property so as to facilitate development of real property markets, improve the quality of 
services provided by the offices of the Cadastre Agency, and strengthen linkages with 
other related organizations. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Institutional Development of the Real Estate Cadastre
Provision of goods, technical assistance and training to assist the Borrower with: 
(a) improvement of the legislative and regulatory framework for development of real 
estate markets; (b) development of a business plan and processes for transformation of 
the land cadastre to the Unified State Cadastre of Immovable Property; (c) improvement 
of quality of services provid
ed to clients and strengthening the Cadastre Agency’s 
capacity to provide services; and (d) improvement of professional skills of the Cadastre 
Agency staff.  
 
Part B
:
Cadastral Systems Interrelations
Provision of goods, technical assistance and training: (a) for development of the 
information and communication subsystems for the Unified State Cadastre of Immovable 
Property; and (b) to develop the capacity for real estate information exchange between 
the Cadastre Agency and the system for registration of rights in immovable property. 
 
Part C
:
Real Estate Taxation
Provision of goods, technical assistance and training to improve the Borrower’s 
real estate taxation system through development and implementation of: (a) real estate 
mass appraisal system; and (b) real estate market monitoring and tracking system. 
 
Part D
:
Project Management and Monitoring
Strengthening the Cadastre Agency’s and the PIU’s capacity for the Project 
management, monitoring and evaluation, including audit, procurement, disbursement and  
Page  14
-
12
-
financial management activities, through provision of technical assistance, training and 
office equipment and financing of operating costs. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning November 15, 2010 
  
 
 
through November 15, 2021 
  
4,165,000 
 
On May 15, 2022 
  
4,205,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. All 
go
ods
and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the additional provisions set forth in 
the Annex to this Schedule.  
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract  
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Page  17
-
15
-
4. 
Services to Organize Training. 
When appropriate, a firm will be selected to 
provide services in respect of organization of training upon comparison of at least three 
responsive price quotations presented by suitably qualified local service providers under 
agreed procedures.  Individual contract values will normally not exceed the equivalent of 
$100,000.  Contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000 will be advertised nationally 
or internationally and bids for such contacts will be invited. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement o
f
Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for development and implementation of 
automated information system for Immovable Property Cadastre, including the automated 
system for documents circulation, and for related training activities, in circumstances 
which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single 
Source Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured from FCC Zemlya 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4.   
Eligibility of State Owned Institutions.
Short lists for assignments to be procured 
under the provisions of Part B.2 of this Section may, with the prior agreement of the 
Bank, include, or be entirely composed of, suitable State owned entities, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 and subject to the proviso that no entity may 
appear on a shortlist for any assignment where it is the direct beneficiary of the outputs of 
the assignment. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  18
-
16
-
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval by the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for such contracts, 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, shall be subject to 
Prior Review by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank.
 
Page  19
-
17
-
ANNEX  
to 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under 
Bank-Financed Contracts Subject to National Competitive Bidding 
 
Contracts for goods or works for which Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement 
allows procurement under paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of national laws and regulations. In order to 
assure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions in 
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, the national procurement provisions shall be 
modified as set forth in the following paragraphs. 
 
Eligibility
1. 
No restrictions in respect of eligibility to participate in bidding for contracts shall 
be placed on the basis of nationality of bidder and/or origin of goods other than those 
imposed by primary boycotts. 
 
2. 
Eligibility for foreign firms to participate in bidding shall not be based on 
requirements to joint-venture with national firms. 
 
3. 
Bidders shall only be required to register for bidding provided that registration 
requirements and process are simple and non-discriminatory and otherwise qualified 
foreign bidders are not excluded from participating. 
 
4. 
No preference shall be accorded to bidders on the basis of place of registration, 
ownership, small size, etc. No restrictions shall be imposed in terms of source of labor, 
material or equipment. 
 
5. 
Government-owned entitles shall be eligible to participate in bidding for 
contracts if they can establish that they are legally and financial autonomous, operate 
under commercial law and are not a dependant agency of the purchaser or the contractor. 
 
Standard Bidding Documents
6. 
Until a modified version
 of the Borrower’s standard bidding document has been 
approved for use by the Bank, the Bank’s own standard bidding document shall be used.  
 
Advertising bidding opportunities; time for bid preparation
7. 
Bidding opportunities shall be advertised in national press of wide circulation. 
Prospective bidders shall be allowed at least 30 days for bid preparation and submission 
Page  20
-
18
-
of bids (excepting contracts for readily available off-the-shelves goods or standard 
specification commodities or small value works)  
 
8. 
The opportunity to pre-qualify for procurements involving large or complex 
contracts shall be advertised.  
 
9. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements (for pre- or post 
qualification) shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and only criteria so 
specified shall be used to determine whether a bidder is qualified to bid. Bids by bidders 
which are deemed not qualified to bid shall not be further considered and shall be 
rejected. 
 
Bid opening
10. 
Bids shall be opened immediately after the deadline for bid submission and in the 
presence of bidders who wish to attend. Bids received after the deadline shall not be 
considered and shall be returned unopened.  
 
Rebidding
11. 
Rebidding shall not necessarily be required if only one bid has been received 
provided that the bid received is responsive, bid price is acceptable and bidder is deemed 
capable of performing the contract.  
 
Bid evaluation
12. 
Evaluation criteria shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and 
evaluation criteria other than price shall be expressed in monetary terms. Only criteria so 
specified shall be used in bid evaluation. Merit points shall not be used in evaluations of 
bids for goods and works contracts.  
 
13. 
Bid evaluations shall be confidential and bidders shall not be allowed to be 
present during evaluation. No information relating to the evaluation shall be disclosed to 
any bidder until the successful bidder has been notified of contract award.  
 
14. 
Bids containing material deviations from technical specifications and/or material 
reservations to the terms or conditions of the bidding documents shall be rejected as 
“substantially not responsive”. Bidders shall not be requested or permitted to withdraw 
material deviations or reservations once bids have been opened.  
 
15. 
Evaluations shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria specified in the bid 
documents and no other criteria than those specified in the bidding documents shall be 
applied. Contract shall be awarded the lowest evaluated qualified and responsive bidder. 
 
Page  21
-
19
-
16. 
There shall be no negotiations of price or substance with “winning” bidders prior 
to contract award.  
 
Page  22
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Management and Implementation of the Project
1. 
The Cadastre Agency shall be responsible for overall management and 
implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is responsible for procurement, financial, 
disbursement and reporting aspects of the Project implementation, including operation of 
the Special Account, claims for Special Account replenishment, claims for disbursements 
of the Loan proceeds directly from the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall ensure that, until the completion of the Project, the PIU at all 
times function in a manner, and with staff, consultants, facilities and other resources 
necessary for the management and implementation of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Bank.    
 
B. Semi-annual 
Reports 
Starting not later than forty-five (45) days after the first six (6) month from the 
Effective Date, the Borrower shall cause the Cadastre Agency to provide to the Bank a 
written report of: (a) the results of monitoring and evaluation of the Project, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (b) the status of the agreed 
performance monitoring indicators for the preceding six (6) months, and, thereafter, to 
furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent semiannual 
period another report on the same matters which shall cover such semiannual period.  
 
C. 
Counterpart Funding Requirements for the Project
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient annual allocations will be made in 
the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s counterpart contribution to the costs of the 
Project. 
 
D. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2007, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  24
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services, training and operating costs required for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  25
-
23
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  26
-
24
-
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
