Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/11/2009 
Report No.:  AC4186
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Russian Federation 
Project ID:  P078420 
Project Name:  Cadastre Developoment Project 
Task Team Leader:  Maha J. Armaly 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 2, 
2004 
Estimated Board Date: July 5, 2005 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (98%);Law and justice (1%);Housing finance 
and real estate markets (1%) 
Theme:  Personal and property rights (P);Land administration and management (P);Legal 
institutions for a market economy (S);Tax policy and administration (S);Administrative 
and civil service reform (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
100.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
29.47
29.47 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project development objective is to improve the information flow and rationalize 
normative and operational procedures for the Unified State Cadastre of Immovable 
Property so as to facilitate development of real property markets, improve the quality of 
services provided by the offices of the Cadastre Agency, and strengthen linkages with 
other organizations.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Project will be composed of four components: (1) Institutional Development of the 
Real Estate Cadastre, which will include regulatory and legislative reform, training, and 
business system analysis; (2) Cadastre System Interrelations, which will include 
improved information linkages within the cadastre system and with outside users; (3) 
Real Estate Taxation Development, which will provide improved mass appraisal 
methodologies for land and real estate for use by municipal government; and (4) Project 
Monitoring and Management.   
Page  2
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project will be implemented in 40 Subjects of the Federation (SOFs) and in 
approximately 1000 municipalities (rayons) within those regions. This represents roughly 
forty five percent coverage of the country as a whole. Implementation will be split into 
three phases: (1) the pilot phase, covering 3 SOFs and municipalities therein; (2) the first 
roll-out phase of 10 additional SOFs and associated municipalities; and (3) the second 
roll-out phase of an additional 27 SOFs and associated municipalities. This phasing 
applies primarily to Component 2 - Cadastre System Interrelations. Implementation of the 
other three components is not tied to this territorial delineation and will begin 
immediately after effectiveness.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Agnes I. Kiss (ECAVP) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project poses minimum environmental risks. There is a limited amount of office 
refurbishment included for interior work, primarily adjusting office floor plans, 
construction of counters, and similar work.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
None relevant.   
 
Page  3
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The project is rated category "C". Environmental Management Plan is not required.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
During Project preparation a social analysis was carried out. It was based on qualitative 
and quantitative data collected in 2003.  
 
The Project will incorporate a strong program of monitoring. Special attention will be 
given to making the cadastre system more responsive to the needs of clients and in 
improving the overall level of services.  
 
Project implementation includes a survey of users of the services of the Cadastre 
Agency to provide independent feedback on the quality of services provided by the 
offices of the Agency, and as a check on the quantitative indicators which the regional 
offices will be providing to the Federal level.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  4
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
N/A   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Maha J. Armaly 
01/29/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr John V. Kellenberg 
02/08/2009 
Comments:   
