Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 22243-PL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-34990; SCL-3499A)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FOR A
HOUSING PROJECT
May 14, 2001
Infrastructure Sector and Private and Financial Sector Development Units
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 22, 1998
and June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = New Polish Zloty (PLN)
PLN I = US$ 0.303
PLN 1    US$  0.287
US$ I = PLN 3.3
US$  1      PLN 3.48
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BUDBANK    -        Housing Development Bank
DIM           -     Dual Index Mortgage
EBRD          -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU            -     European Union
IBRD          -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
HFPO          -     Housing Finance Project Office
MOF           -     Ministry of Finance
MOSEC         -     Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction
NBP           -      National Bank of Poland
PARR          -     Polish Agency for Regional Development
PIP           -     Project Implementation Plan
PKO.BP       -      National Savings Bank
RDA           -      Regional Development Agency
SME          -       Small and medium enterprise
SOE          -       Statement of Expenditures
USAID         -     United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:    Margret Thalwitz / Ricardo Halperin; Paul
Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sonia Hammam; Rochelle Hilton



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
Republic of Poland
HOUSING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     1 1
9. Partner Comments                                                                    11
10. Additional Information                                                             17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008590                                       Project Name: HOUSING
Team Leader: Rochelle Hilton                              TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 14, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: HOUSING                                        L/C/TF Number: CPL-34990;
SCL-3499A
Country/Department: POLAND                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FY - Other Finance; UH - Urban Housing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/09/90                                Effective: 06/30/92            05/06/93
Appraisal:  10/01/91                                  MTR:                       09/27/97
Approval:  06/25/92                                Closing:  12/31/98           06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF POLAND/MORTGAGE FUND; PARR
Other Partners: USAID, EBRD
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                          Kemal Dervis (original), Basil G. Kavalsky
(restructured)
Sector Manager:      Margret C. Thalwitz (original              Hans Apitz (original), Ilham Zurayk
project), Paul Siegelbaum                 (restructured)
(restructured project)
Team Leader at ICR:   Sonia Hammam (original),                 Gian Carlo Guarda (original), George Park
Rochelle Hilton (restructured)            (restructured)
ICR Primary Author:   Sonia Hammam; Mats
Andersson; George Park;
Rochelle Hilton
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The same ratings are applicable to the restructured project. QAG rated the project as satisfactory in its 2000
Quality of Supervision Assessment



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. The Housing Project evaluated in this report was identified in April 1990, in response to a
Government of Poland request to assist with the housing sector. It represents the first housing project in a
transitional country. Housing under the centrally controlled, administratively planned and publicly financed
socialist system was viewed as a right for which the population was not expected to contribute a large
portion of its income. Housing subsidies accounted for between 8-13% of the national budget. The
production system was dominated by state-controlled cooperatives in urban areas, which received their
financing through a subsidized system of loans through the large state savings bank, PKO.BP. The
majority of the stock in urban areas was either publicly owned with nominal rents or cooperative housing,
which also benefited from large subsidies.
At the start of the transition, growing inflation, steep declines in income and liberalization of prices,
resulted in severe contraction of output, as new housing and housing loans became unaffordable to the
majority of the population. It is against this backdrop, that the Governnent requested assistance with the
transformation of the housing sector as part of its Economic Transforrnation Prograrn, which was
supported by the Bank's country assistance strategy.  Policy makers at the time were well aware that
perceived shortages, reduced output and the high cost of credit would put pressure for continued subsidies.
In the face of these challenges, the strategy was to focus initially on developing a more sustainable market
based system for fiuancing new production, over the more socially difficult process of dealing with
subsidies to the existing housing stock.
Objectives.  Project specific objectives, as stated at appraisal, were: (i) creation of banking services to
finance construction and mortgages; (ii) greater private sector role in housing production; (iii) incentives to
split existing cooperatives; (iv) competitive bidding in construction contracts; (v) pricing of land as part of
housing costs; (vi) removal of legal and regulatory constraints to private initiative; and (vii) greater
efficiency in the use of local government resources. The objectives reflected the market-oriented agenda of
the Government's housing policy statement, which was submitted to Parliament in the spring of 1991.
The project's approach represents a major break with past policies, as it sought to:
(a)    encourage private supply and demand for housing by: (i) reducing housing subsidies; (ii)
stimulating competition and private initiative of developers and contractors; (iii) encouraging changes to
laws on home tenure, purchase and rental;
(b)    strengthen housing finance institutions by: (i) introducing a mortgage instrument which can
preserve cost recovery and affordability under unstable economic circumstances; (ii) creating a fund to
stimulate mortgage lending by savings and commercial banks in a high inflation environment; and (iii)
through training and technical assistance, promoting new administrative, financial and accounting practices
and developing the institutional capacity to appraise proposed housing investments; and
(c)    adjust housing production to the needs and preferences of consumers by: (i) providing advice on
construction management and cost efficient technologies; (ii) assisting private and public agents in all
aspects of housing development; and (iii) introducing programs to upgrade the housing stock and to
re-allocate rehabilitated dwellings among potential users.
Identification of risks. The project objectives were clearly ambitious and several specific risks were
appropriately identified at appraisal including: the inexperience of banks with the mortgage instrument; the
- 2 -



climate of uncertainties regarding interest rates, prices and incomes and their potential impact on demand
and affordability; and the possible lack of separation of finance from subsidies in other government
supported programs. The project design was to manage these risks by: (i) introducing DIMs to reduce the
risks of the volatility of both inflation and wage levels on both households and banks; (ii) encouraging the
use of DIMs to improve affordability without recourse to subsidies; (iii) providing long-term resources
through the Fund to mitigate the systemic risk of maturity transformation and (iv) a large technical
assistance component to facilitate reforms and the application of new policies and procedures.
However, the project design underestimated the complexity and time required to set up new institutional
arrangements (an apex lending institution), and introduce new products (the DIM) in the context of a
transition economy where the banking, institutional and legal environment for mortgage finance was
poorly developed. Conversely, the project overestimated the speed with which demand would develop for
new construction and mortgage loans; and, as importantly, banks' appetite for long-term resources.
Notwithstanding the importance and impact of these issues on the pace of implementation, a lapse in
continuity and coherence of government sector policy, with respect to interest rate subsidies, represented
the major risk to the achievement of project development objectives, particularly in the early years.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was revised in September 1997 to respond to the emergency situation caused by the 1997
floods, by which time implementation of the original Housing Project was substantially completed. The
Board approved the revisions to the Project in October 1997, by effectively adding the component to
support SMEs damaged by the floods.  The development objectives of the restructured project's
development objectives include the original housing loan objectives plus new objectives for the SME
component.
A. Housing Loan: During supervision, objectives of the housing loan were more closely aligned to
project components and indicators were developed to track their achievement. The restated objectives can
be summarized as: (i) creation of banking services for mortgage and construction finance; (ii) substituting
a market-oriented instrument for subsidized interest rates; (iii) providing long-term funds for mortgage
loans; (iv) greater private sector role in housing production; (v) substituting private associations for
state-controlled cooperatives; and (vi) changes in the legal and regulatory framework. (This summary of
objectives, adopted in supervision reports as of 1996, is more consistent with the project design. It
excludes the ambiguity of objectives such as greater efficiency in the use of local govemment resources,
pricing of land as part of housing costs, incentives to split cooperatives, and competition in construction
contracts. The latter are implicit in private sector construction and use of small cooperative associations
and private developers for production.)
B.  SME Component. The key objectives of the SME support component were to: (i) help firms to
reconstruct buildings and replace other assets damaged or destroyed by the flood; and (ii) help firms to
repay commercial loans granted after the flood which could not be repaid given continuing difficulties in
restoring the small business to profitability. As the objectives and details of this component are
completely different from the original Housing Project, an assessment of the achievements and outcome of
this component of the project is provided as additional informnation in Section 10 of this Report. Except
where specifically mentioned, the rest of this assessment relates to the original Housing Project.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of a line of credit to finance two components: (a) mortgage loans to
individual households; and (b) construction financing to developers. These resources were to be onlent to
banks by an apex lending institution (the Mortgage Fund) housed at the Bank Rozwoju Budownictwa
- 3 -



Mieszkaniowego, S.A. (BudBank). Project implementation was supported by a large technical assistance
component, financed by EBRD, USAID and the Japanese Government, directed at the BudBank, the
Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction (MOSEC), the Housing Finance Project Office (HFPO),
banking institutions and developers. In addition to technical assistance support, the EBRD committed
US$67 million to be used as part of the Government contribution for construction finance, and USAID
approved US$25 million for construction and mortgage loans.
The Mortgage Fund was to provide a stable source of long-term capital for housing investment and to
encourage financial institutions to issue Dual Index Mortgages (DIMs) to individual borrowers. This
innovative instrument was designed to mitigate risks of lending for both households and banks in a difficult
environment characterized by volatility in wages and inflation. It offered an alternative to continued
reliance on governmental transfers to PKO.BP to lower mortgage costs and improve affordability.
3.4 Revised Components:
To help SMEs recover from the July 1997 floods, the Government developed a special program of
assistance and requested that uncommitted funds from the housing loan be reallocated to help finance this
program. The assistance program combines commercial credit with non-repayable grant assistance from
the Government, the latter financed with funds from the Housing Loan and from the government budget.
In response to this request and the emergency situation, the Housing Loan was restructured into two
separate components in 1997: (i) the original housing loan with an allocation of US$4.0 million and (ii) an
entirely new component of US$16.0 million to assist SMEs to recover from the July 1997 floods.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This Project was not subject to any quality at entry review. Project preparation took place during the early
years of the period of transition and major reforms in Poland, when expectations ran high that quick results
could be achieved. The Government was under some pressure to design a large program that would
address the perceived significant housing shortages, through a private sector market-based finance system.
There was strong client, Bank and other donor interest in embarking on this path and commitment to reform
the sector. The weakness was in the assumption that resource constraints and a new instrument could
stimulate sufficient demand by both banks and borrowers even in the uncertain and unstable
macro-economic, legal and institutional climate at the time. While the project preparation recognized the
need for continued emphasis on reform of the sector, and contributed greatly to the reform agenda, the
project could not stem the drastic contraction in housing production, caused by the collapse of the
State-supported system. There was clearly an over-estimate of how quickly private demand would emerge.
Moreover, there was little understanding of just how much time was required to build up institutional
capacity of the Mortgage Fund at the BudBank to absorb such a large loan. Preparation devoted
considerable time to analysis of the feasibility of the mortgage instrument, design of the Mortgage Fund
operations manual, and preparation of a pipeline of projects for financing; i.e., the instruments and outputs
of the project. Yet, the greatest contributions of the project at entry was in the coherence of its policy
objectives, which it was able to maintain throughout the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the Project's outcome, assessed on the basis of achievement and sustainability of the project's
development objectives, and quantitative achievements, is satisfactory. As described below, the project has
successfully met all but one of its original objectives, namely providing long-term funds for mortgage
finance. It has done this on a significantly more limited scale than was anticipated at appraisal. The low
level of demand for long-term resources has been due to the liquidity and modest size of mortgage
- 4 -



portfolios of the largest banks, as they enter this market. It is clear that at this early stage of mortgage
market development, access to long-term resources has been a constraint only for smaller banks. Until the
economy stabilizes, interest rates fall and the remaining legal risks of mortgage lending are resolved,
mortgage lending will remain conservative and small scale in its development.
The project has met its institutional, policy, financial and sectoral objectives despite the low level of
demand for project resources through the Mortgage Fund. The success of the Mortgage Fund has, it turned
out, depended less on the volume of financing than on its introduction of new approaches and inducing
changes in the policy, institutional and legal environment. Thus despite the reduced level of outputs and
project size, overall outcome is judged as satisfactory. Similarly, this completion report concurs with the
satisfactory rating for the development objectives indicated in various supervisions, starting in June 1995.
The achievements of the project can be measured in terms of the significant changes in housing finance that
it introduced, in a climate of extreme uncertainties and reversals in policy regarding interest rates in the
first three years. At the end of the project, there is clear evidence that the whole framework for housing
production and finance has been transformed, and is now more conducive to market finance and
production. Persistence in maintaining these objectives has paid off.
Banking services for market-based mortgage and construction finance have been created with over 20
banks (by late 1998) offering a variety of market-rate mortgage loans on an unsubsidized basis, compared
to the subsidized system dominated by one bank (PKO.BP) at the time of project approvaL The increased
competitiveness of this system is evident in the decline in PKO.BP's market share of mortgage lending,
which dropped from 95% to 80% by the project's end. The Dual Index Mortgage, introduced by the
project, remains the most prevalent mortgage product offered. Without the demonstration effect of this as
an affordable market-based instrument, and the training provided by the project in sound underwriting and
loan processing established by the Mortgage Fund, it is less likely that as many banks would have entered
this market.
The project has demonstrated the viability of substituting a financial instrument for interest rate
subsidies as a means of increasing affordability. Interest rate subsidies have been eliminated as of 1995,
thereby allowing a level playing field for banks to enter the market. Direct subsidies to the sector as a
percentage of the total budget expenditures have declined, from 5.1% in 1991 to 2.7% in 1997, and
represent old obligations incurred as a result of government purchase of PKO.BP capitalized interest.
The share ofprivate sector activity in overall housing completions almost doubled during the period of
project implementation, accounting for over half of completions and the vast majority of new housing
starts by project end. Private sector production grew from 28% of housing completions in 1992 to 53 %
by the end of the project. Similarly the cooperative sector declined in importance from 63% of housing
completions in 1992 to 35 % in 1997. This turnaround was the result of the removal of interest subsidies
on cooperative housing construction, promoted by the project. While there has been a severe contraction in
housing production, largely as a result of macroeconomic conditions, housing completions have begun to
register modest increases as of 1997.
The legal and regulatory framework has undergone significant reforms to support the emergence of a
market-based system of finance and production and changes in the public sector role. Several
measures, supported by the project, were enacted to substantially change the terms of the housing finance
system. These include: (i) the introduction of the DIM linking mortgage payments to an index of wages
and applying market rates of interest with the unpaid interest capitalized; (ii) elimination of mortgage and
construction subsidies; (iii) separation of construction and mortgage finance permitting individual
mortgages on flats in multi-famnily buildings; and (iv) elimination of the entitlement of delinquent mortgage
- 5 -



holders to a replacement dwelling in the case of foreclosure. More recently, the Government has built on
these initiatives by taking further steps to establish a legal framework that is more conducive to mortgage
lending. A mortgage banking law has become effective eliminating certain legal risks (tax liens) on
mortgage bank lending and setting the terms for mortgage banking and bonds. Parallel reforms in the
sector have emphasized the introduction of housing allowances, liberalization of rents on private housing
and elimination of the administrative allocation of housing; the establishment of condominium form of
ownership; the revision of building codes and amendment to the cooperative laws. There is still an
unfinished agenda of reforms, notably in the areas of property registration systems, the priority of tax liens
strengthening property rights under cooperative and condominium ownership, liberalization of rents on
public housing, improved targeting of housing allowances and other social programs, and dealing with the
old PKO.BP portfolio of loans. However, there can be no doubt as to the significance of the changes that
have already been introduced.
The objective of providing long-term resources for mortgage loans has been only partially meL A
critical assumption at appraisal was that banks would be unwilling to lend without access to long-term
resources provided by the project. This assumption turned out to be true for the smaller banks. However,
their size limited their ability to generate a significant number of loans to absorb the resources available
through the Mortgage Fund. The larger banks, on the other hand, were liquid enough to offer loans without
drawing on the Mortgage Fund, given the modest size of their mortgage portfolios. Access to long-term
resources, while not critical at the present level of activity for the largest banks, will become more
important as mortgage markets develop further.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project was not able to disburse sufficient resources to generate the physical outputs of 27,000
mortgages and 15,000 units, anticipated at appraisal. As noted previously, the loan was restructured three
times to vastly reduce its size from US$200 million equivalent to only US$4 million for the Housing
component. Reflecting this reduction in size, the project ultimately provided construction finance for a total
1,661 units and 800 mortgages.
The outputs of the techrical assistance included training of about 1,000 bankers in mortgage finance.
This contributed to the growth of mortgage finance through the banking system in Poland, and use of the
DIM loan product by the majority of these banks, including the PKO.BP. The HFPO trained over 1,200
developers. It worked closely with about 450 developers and smaller cooperative enterprises to help them
produce bankable projects and developed analytical tools to help improve the efficiency of their
procedures. It evaluated and assisted in over 160 housing projects resulting in some 1,960 units, the
majority of which have received construction finance through the banks.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N.A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institutional Development Impact of the project is that the Mortgage Fund has set a standard for
mortgage loan underwriting and servicing, where none existed previously. The materials developed have
been institutionalized by bank training institutions and are widely used. The Mortgage Fund, while small,
has evolved into a more client-centered institution working with banks to promote mortgage finance and
will continue to operate as a transitional institution until capital markets develop further.
- 6 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
A convergence of several factors was responsible for the slow start-up and low level of demand for project
resources: (a) lack of sustained borrower ownership; (b) changes in policy and institutional priorities; (c)
weak institutional readiness and capacity; and (d) macroeconomic conditions and continuation of PKO.BP
subsidies which dampened demand for resources. The combination of these factors, particularly during the
first three years, severely tested the basic project design limiting the capacity of the Fund to gain sufficient
momentum to utilize a larger portion of available resources.
Changes in leadership and institutional priorities resulting in lack of sustained borrower ownership.
The slow start-up was caused partly by the change in government, which occurred in July 1992, only one
month after project approval. This change contributed to delays in signing of the Loan Agreement (six
months after Board approval) and project effectiveness. A full year passed from Board approval to project
effectiveness, in May 1993. The change in sector officials was accompanied by a modification in reform
priorities with respect to housing finance and production.
Macroeconomic conditions not conducive to growth in housing and mortgage demand. At the time of
project effectiveness in 1993, inflation was at 35%, real wages had dropped by 2.9% over the previous
year, and unemployment was about 14%. Any one of these factors would have had a dampening effect on
demand and banks' willingness to issue mortgages in a more developed housing finance market. Given
these conditions, the demand for, and supply of, mortgages was slow to develop. Households were
reluctant to borrow, due to the extreme uncertainty about their future income, employment and house
prices. These factors combined with high levels of inflation and interest rates were not conducive to
stimulating demand for new housing production and mortgage finance on a significant scale. The
availability of long term resources through the project addressed the liquidity risk of mortgage lending, but
was not sufficient to stimulate demand for these resources. While the DIM is an innovative and robust
instrument in terms of absorption of macroeconomic shocks, it is a more complex instrument to market to
both banks and consumers. Complicating its commercialization was the inexperience of both households
and most banks with conventional mortgage products; or any form of retail lending at the time it was
introduced.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In the first three years, MOSEC sought to change the institutional arrangements, notably removal of the
limitation on BudBank activities to refinancing construction and mortgage loans. It also sought to limit the
institutional nature and role for the HFPO, which represented continuity in design, to working solely with
the developers. The impact of these uncertainties about institutional roles and priorities was that BudBank
was very slow to devote staff resources to manage the Fund and actively promote mortgage finance to
participating banks and the general public.
The most significant factor, which limited the number of entrants into the mortgage market, was the
Govemments continuation of interest rate subsidies on PKO.BP loans. While subsidies for construction
were eliminated in 1992, as anticipated, the subsidies for PKO.BP mortgage loans were maintained by the
new govermment in the wake of declining production and a substantial amount of cooperative housing
which was still under construction. This sent mixed signals to banks as to government intentions regarding
market-based finance and its commitment to the Mortgage Fund's role. Under those conditions, the
PKO.BP, which had been expected to play a major role as a "participating bank," had little incentive to
borrow from the Fund. Instead, it not only continued to dominate the sector, in the early years, but its
subsidized loans competed directly with the Fund's promotion of DIM products.
- 7-



By 1994, the Government had become a majority owner of the PKO.BP portfolio as a result of its growing
obligations to purchase capitalized interest on its mortgage loans. To reverse this untenable situation, the
Government signaled that it had essentially met its commitments to supporting the completion of unfinished
units and discontinued its purchase of capitalized interest on new mortgage loans as of April 1995.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The role of host for the Mortgage Fund had been thrust upon the BudBank, after most of the project
preparation had been completed. It was not fully primed to assume this role prior to the start of
implementation; nor was it anxious to divest itself of other activities limiting itself to the role of an apex
institution, as required by the project. The continued small size of the Fund's portfolio and drastic
reduction of its resources made the latter option for BudBank's future increasingly nonviable. Given this
situation, the BudBank was more preoccupied with deternining a future for itself including continuing
other activities or direct lending through the Fund. As understandable as these preoccupations may have
been, its insistence on maintaining these conflicting roles, reduced its effectiveness in promoting the project
to other banks, in the early years.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
The original loan amount was US$200 million. Because of the very limited utilization of the Loan,
US$150 million was canceled as of July 6, 1995, and an additional US$30 million canceled as of June 29,
1996, leaving a remaining balance of US$20 million. High commitment fees on a non-disbursing loan
were the reason behind the cancellations. In addition, the Governnent requested cancellation of the EBRD
loan for US$67 million, in support of the Project; a portion of the EBRD loan had been canceled in May
1995, and the remaining balance was canceled in August 1996. USAID offered US$25 million under its
Housing Guarantee Program; the first US$10 million were committed in the spring of 1993; the second
drawing was canceled in 1996.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
As the project reaches completion, it is clear that there are strong prospects that the achievements of
development objectives will be maintained. There have been significant advances in housing finance
spurred by the elimination of subsidies on new mortgage loans; the introduction of innovative mortgage
instruments; the creation of a Mortgage Fund with standardized procedures and analytical tools to support
development of mortgage lending; legal reforms affecting housing production and finance; and the diffusion
of good practices in mortgage loan underwriting and servicing standards.
Sustainability can be further assessed on the basis of the viability of the Fund's activities and of the
mortgage instrument. The DIM loan portfolios of banks, whether participants or not, perform better than
other loans. While other instruments are now available, the DIM remains the most widely used because it
is the most affordable. The Mortgage Fund can continue to operate at a low level with no further support.
Clearly, with an estimated sustained capacity to continue to finance approximately US$3 million yearly
after using its surplus funds, it will not be an important financier of housing loans. However, the decision
to transfer the Fund and BudBank to BGK indicates that the Government intends to continue to maintain its
function as a transitional instrument to support housing finance until mortgage banks and a market for
mortgage bonds develop.
-8 -



MORTGAGE FUND BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31,1994 - DECEMBER 31, 1998
Assets:
Cash in banks                          0         0           0          0         0
Short term investments            31,998    27,056      17,559     14,372    11,570
Loans                             30,491     27,883     16,919      6,653     1,717
Other                                736       768       2,563      2,097     2,937
Total Assets                    63,225    55,707     37,040     23,122    16,224
Liabilities:
Loan payable to World Bank         9,903      8,803      6,062      2,293       376
Loan payable to USAID             20,110    16,418       7,593      2,025       700
Other liabilities                  2,157      2,389        835       330         20
32,169    27,609     14,490      4,648      1,096
Net worth:
Capital contributions
Government funds                 20,471    19,219      15,972    13,337    12,108
Financed by EBRD                  2,425     2,425      2,425       1,420        0
22,896    21,644     18,397     14,757    12,108
Revaluation surplus                  113       113         113        113
Retained earnings                  8,047      6,341      4,040      3,604     3,020
31,056    28,098     22,550     18,474    15.128
Total Liabilities & Net Worth   63,225    55,707      37,040    23,122    16,224
As of June 30, 1998
Balance sheet shows the performance of the Mortgage Fund portion of BudBank during the disbursement
period of the Housing Component of the Project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No further Bank follow up is recomnmended. The Project was reviewed as part of OED's Poland Country
Studyin 1997.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank provided continuity of staff with appropriate skill-mix during preparation, appraisal and
supervision. The project required preparation missions in June and October of 1990, an appraisal mission
in May 1991 and a post-appraisal mission in November 1991 before negotiations in April 1992 -- almost a
full year after appraisal. The Bank collaborated with the EBRD during appraisal and with USAID which
had supported some of the technical assistance resources to fund various preparatory documents. The
Bank worked closely with the project team established by the Council of Ministers in preparing the
program and providing advice on reform of the sector.
With the benefit of hindsight, given that the decision to house management of the Mortgage Fund at the
BudBank occurred at the post-appraisal stage, it might have been more prudent for the Bank to take the
time to review the viability of this option more closely before commencing negotiations.
-9-



7.2 Supervision:
In time, the Bank adjusted its ambitious objectives by recognizing external factors responsible for the slow
growth of demand for Mortgage Fund resources. It proposed various options for restructuring, including
reduction of the loan amount, introduction of different mortgage instruments and became more flexible in
its approach. The Bank, after repeated requests, finally agreed (in 1996) to allow BudBank to engage in
direct lending, on condition that such activity not be advantaged by continued equity contributions from the
Government. However, the BudBank did not take up this option. The Bank also agreed to changes in
procedures to allow a diversity of products and less complex processes in 1996. The Bank, however, did
not fully appreciate how demanding the project objectives were for the BudBank, and how little support
there was for the requirement of divestiture of its other activities. This fed perceptions that it was inflexible
in its approach, particularly with regard to BudBank's role, by: (a) refusing to allow it to become a direct
lender while benefiting from continued government equity contributions; and (b) requiring that it divest of
its other activities.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank stayed closely involved with the policy agenda and
provided extensive support for the institutional development of BudBank. The Bank team included an
appropriate skill mix and stayed closely in touch with all stake holders.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory. The project received the attention of the
Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers which established a joint team. The head of the team was
appointed by the Vice Premier and Finance Minister, Leszek Balcerowicz. The team working with the
Bank prepared the project to introduce market-based finance for the first time in Poland. By November
1991, the responsibility for the project was given to MOSEC which also worked to produce a housing
policy statement, for presentation to Parliament, that emphasized its commitment to market oriented
reforms. Perhaps the major oversight, at that time, was not preparing the BudBank sufficiently to assume
the role that was to be entrusted to it.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
There were lapses in GOP policy commitment to eliminate subsidies at the start of project implementation.
These, however, were addressed as it successfully isolated the old PKO.BP portfolio of loans from
mortgage finance activity in 1995, thereby allowing a growth of market-based lending by a variety of
banks.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The BudBank, took time to devote the management resources to the Fund and develop its skills and
understanding of the requirements of the project. However, over time the BudBank was able to adapt
products and procedures while ensuring sound performance of the Funds and, as importantly, participating
banks' loan portfolios. Its capacity to transform itself into a dynamic refinancing facility was moderated
by its own ambivalence about this role.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. Borrower performance was satisfactory during
preparation and appraisal with strong commitment to objectives. During the course of supervision, project
management improved from a rating of unsatisfactory at the start of implementation to satisfactory by
completion. As noted previously, the project experienced several changes in counterparts during both
preparation and supervision seriously undermining prospects for sustained support and commitment to a
- 10 -



successful launch.
8. Lessons Learned
(a) Coherence in project objectives has been an important catalyst for changing housingfinance
policies and practice in Poland
(b) The importance of recognizing and assuming risks of piloting new approaches in project design.
The project's success is attributable to the coherence of its policy objectives and to demonstration of new
approaches. In attempting to introduce new approaches and pilot more complex products, the expectation
of large outputs, at the outset, is inappropriate. Instead, there needs to be a willingness to allow for a more
deliberately gral process focusing on reforms, and limited resources for demonstration of new products
in an uncertain environment
(c) The importance of borrower ownershi. The project lacked continuity in support and ownership by
its principal stakeholders among both the finance and housing sector officials. As key public officials and
institutional structures changed, there was little recognition of the importance and time needed to rebuild
ownership and understanding of the project.
(d) The importance of understanding demand A more thorough analysis and monitoring of the housing
mfarket and financial sector conditions during this period of economic transition may have tempered
expectations of stimulating significant demand for new construction and mortgage finance. This may have
cautioned against providing such a large loan. Instead, project size was established on the basis of an
assessment of a pipeline of projects under construction, and an assumption that solving the resource
constraint would encourage banks to lend and households to borrow to finance these units.
(e) The importance of ensuring realism about implementation progress. It takes time to prepare
institutions and build capacity to assume major responsibility for implementation of a large loan and
marketing of a complex new instrument. It also takes time to address legal impediments to market-based
finance. This process of building capacity and understanding of market-based finance instruments was
probably the most important contribution of the project, but the time required to achieve this was severely
underestimated in projections of disbursements and resource needs.
(t) The appropriateness of credit Unes and refinancingfaciliies in a transitional economy. With the
benefit of hindsight, it might be tempting to argue for a policy or technical assistance loan in the context of
transitional countries to achieve policy and sectoral reforms. However, without the resources through the
credit line to the Mortgage Fund to finance the demonstration of new products and procedures, it is unlikely
that technical or policy assistance alone could have encouraged the emergence of a more competitive
housing finance system, and the separation of subsidies from finance.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Genesis of the Housing Construction Financing Project
In November 1990, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers (KERM) established a team
named Project of the Polish Govemment and the World Bank for Financing of the Construction of Housing
and appointed Vice-Premier Balcerowicz chief of the team. The members were national experts and foreign
consultants experienced in housing policy, urban design and planning, economic and financial analyses,
banking, law and training. The team played the role of advisor in the field of housing policy and reform of
- 1 1 -



the financing of housing construction, especially in the field of so-called old cooperative loans. The basic
task of the team was to prepare assumptions for the new system of crediting of the construction of housing
based on market rules and adapted to the high inflation in the Polish economy. From the very beginning the
team cooperated closely with the World Bank, as the only institution which had appropriate knowledge and
experience at the time.
As of November 1991, responsibility for realization of the Project was entrusted to the Minister of Physical
Pianning and Building, who was appointed party to the agreement with the World Bank on a housing loan.
As a consequence of the joint work of Polish and foreign experts "Assumptions for the Housing Policy of
the State" were presented to the Sejm in Autumn 1991 by Minister Diakonow. They provided for an active
policy of the government towards acceleration of transformation of the sector into a market-oriented one.
A next step was made in November and December 1992 - upon signature of respective international
agreements with the World Bank, EBRD and USAID. In April 1992, based on a resolution of the General
Assembly of Shareholders of Bank Rozwoju Budownictwa Mieszkaniowego S.A. (BudBank), a Mortgage
Fund was established in that bank. In February 1994 the Minister of Physical Planning and Building
established the Bureau of the Housing Construction Financing Project (HFPO). The institutional basis of
the Project were two units: the HFPO and the Mortgage Fund.
Project Objectives
The original objectives of the Project, which was to be an important element of the transformation of the
sector, were defined in the evaluating report of the World Bank of May 1992. They kept changing
following the development of the sector and implementation of the Project and were finally formulated as
follows:
I ) establish a market oriented system of financing of housing,
2) replace interest based subsidies with a market oriented financial instrument,
3) finance building and mortgage loans by the banking system,
4) ensure long-term funds for financing the mortgage loans,
5) increase the volume of production of dwellings by the private sector,
6) improve legal regulations concerning the financing of the housing sector.
The creation of a market-oriented system of financing of housing was an objective conceived on a wide
scale. It assumed creation of a regulatory environment and institutional structure radically different from
what had existed and transfer of the know-how to the housing market players, mainly banks and real estate
developers. The basic and most important condition for building of a market system was liquidation of the
old subsidized system which made competition with any market system impossible. The other objectives of
the Program gave a more detailed definition of the priorities to achieve that objective.
Introduction to the banking system of an appropriate credit instrument in place of the interest subsidies was
of special importance. That concemed both the old cooperative loan portfolio of PKO.BP and the planned
instrument to be applied in the Project and recommended to banks. That was possible thanks to the
international experience of the World Bank. Financing of building and mortgage loans by the banking
system was to be ensured by transfer - through technical assistance - of appropriate know-how connected
with granting and servicing of mortgage and building loans. The assistance was to be made available by
the Mortgage Fund and the HFPO. The source of long-term capital was to be long-term loans from
intemational organizations which were to re-finance, through the Mortgage Fund, the eligible mortgage
loans:
- 12 -



- a loan from the World Bank of US$200 million,
-  a loan of US$67 million from the EBRD, constituting a supplement to the contribution of the
Polish Govemment of US$133 million,
- guarantees of the American Govenument of up to US$25 million.
The result of limitation of subsidies to the old structures and building of a new market-oriented system was
to be a growth of production of dwellings in the private sector. All those actions had to be given a legal
framework adequate to the situation. The matter of eviction from occupied dwelling was particularly
urgent, although unpopular in the society.
Organizational Structure of the Project
Before the loan agreement with the World Bank was signed, a part of the work connected with systemn
reforms, as well as most of the work connected with preparation of documents, was carried out by the
HFPO, in close cooperation with the experts working on assignments from KERM, the Ministry of Finance
and the Ministry of Physical Planning and Building (Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction -
MOSEC).
After the agreement was signed by the Polish Government, the tasks of particular units were modified.
Responsibility for system transformnation of the sector and the legal regulations connected therewith and
supporting the Project were taken over by MOSEC. The tasks connected with starting-up the Mortgage
Fund and its promotion and training of the participating banks were assigned to BudBank. The HFPO
became mainly responsible for cooperation with real estate developers in the field of preparation of
investment projects.
4.    Time Schedule of the Mortgage Fund
On 25 April 1992, the General Assembly of Shareholders of BudBank adopted the Rules of the Mortgage
Fund, which came into force on the day of signature of the Loan Agreement with the World Bank.
21 December 1992: Loan Agreement with World Bank signed.
1 February 1993  : Training for a selected group of BudBank employees began.
15 April 1993    : Auxiliary Agreement signed between MOSEC and BudBank.
23 April 1993    : BudBank obtained authorization to use loan funds, as a result of
preliminary accession of PKO BP to the Program and granting by it
of two loans eligible for re-financing from the Mortgage Fund.
7 June 1993     : First participating bank status granted to Bydgoski Bank Budownictwa
(BBB).
17 March 1994   : 7 mortgage loans granted by Bank Przemyslowo-Handlowy (which had
not got participating bank status) on the principles of the Mortgage Fund.
20 May 1994     : First loan granted by a participating bank (BBB)
27 September 1994: BudBank applied for the first time to MOSEC for re-financing of loans
paid.
30 September 1994: First tranche drawn from the loan account.
6 July 1995     : World Bank loan reduced from US$200 million to US$50 million.
29 June 1996    : World Bank loan reduced from US$50 million to US$20 million.
5 June 1998     : US$16 million of World Bank loan transferred as aid for flood-affected
people.
30 June 2000    : Final term for utilization of the World Bank loan funds.
- 13-



5.     Credit Activity of the Mortgage Fund
Crediting activity was began by the Mortgage Fund in 1994. Between 1994-1998, 1142 loans amounting
to PLN 72,763,000 were granted in the framework of re-financing of funds engaged by the banks
participating in the Program. That allowed for financing of construction and purchase of 1,961 dwellings,
of which 1,419 flats, 502 one-family houses and renovation of 40 dwelling houses.
Table 1: Value of loans granted fromn the Mgrteze Fund and Raid by BudBank from 1994-1998
Loans (in PLN ,000)                   1994     1995      1996        1997     1998
Granted in year                      4,125    11,795    18,974     19,025    18,844
Accumulated at the end of the year   4,125    15,920    34,894     53,919    72,763
Paid in year                         1,685     6,247    15,736     18,971    18,542
Accumulated at the end of the year   1,685     7,932    23,668     42,639    61,181
Source: Bank Rozwoju Budownictwa Mieszkaniowego S.A.
The value of re-financing credits granted to particular banks is different in each case and strongly
dependent on the date of accession of the given bank to the Mortgage Fund Program. Among those banks
which most actively implemented the Fund program were Bank Inicjatyw Spoleczno-Ekonomicznych
(BISE) S.A. in Warsaw and Powszechny Bank Gospodarczy (PBG) - Pekao S.A. Group in Lodz. The
amount of re-financing credits paid from the beginning of the realization of the Program till the end of 1998
was distributed among the following banks:
Bank                                     PLN  000
- PBG S.A.                                22,137
- BISE S.A.                               31,859
- GBW S.A.                                 2,751
- GBG S.A.                                 2,934
- PKO BP                                    946
- BPH S.A.                                   149
- BBB SA.                                   281
- BWR S.A.                                   124
The structure of loans granted was as follows:
Building loans:                  100%        Mortgage loans:                  100%
- construction of flats           64%        - purchase of new flats            35%
- construction of one-family houses    33%   - purchase of new one-family houses   44%
- renovation of one-family houses  3%        - renovation of one-family houses   2%
- secondary market                19%
The length of the crediting period of multi-family housing projects with a building loan was 6-30 months,
one-family projects 4-18 months, while the expected repayment period of the mortgage loan spans 6-17
years. The size of the mortgage loan expressed as a multiple of household income was 11.70, while
average household income was PLN 4,220.
- 14 -



The principal subject of interest of the Mortgage Fund is current control of whether participating banks
grant and service particular building and mortgage loans in compliance with the rules. The process of
crediting is correct and follows the rules of the Mortgage Fund thanks to the training of the participating
bank staff that has been carried out. An explicit effect of the procedure and conditions of crediting
established by the Mortgage Fund, which are to minimize the credit risks, is a very good quality of loans
and a credit portfolio which does not include bad debts.
Another element which proves a high effectiveness of the Mortgage Fund's activity may be the basic
indicators of the economic condition of the Fund in 1997 and 1998. Return on assets (ROA) was 4.99% in
1997 and 3.78% in 1998. Return on equity (ROE) was 9.68% in 1997 and reached the level of 8.37% in
the next year and stabilized at a level close to the inflation rate in that year (8.6% in Dec./Dec. relation).
The high ROE is a result of relatively low own funds assumed as own means of the Fund and budgetary
means.
The profitability of the activity is high:
- net:        26.10% in 1997 and 20.24% in 1998
- gross:     41.17% in 1997 and 41.72% in 1998
The costs of the Mortgage Fund's activity constituted 58.84% of revenues in 1997 and diminished
insignificantly to 58.28% of revenues in 1998.
In order to ensure means for re-financing of loans granted by participating banks, BudBank was provided
an advance from Polish state budget in the amount of PLN 12,107,000, constituting an equivalent of
US$7,330,000 - at the average exchange rate published by the NBP on the day of signature of the
governmental loan agreement. The above amount could be invested in securities by BudBank by the time
the amount of the loan was used up to 50%.
Income of the Mortgage Fund activity originated from interest from the loans and securities. Initially,
income from investments in securities considerably exceeded the income from loan activity. However, as
the credit portfolio grew the difference gradually leveled out. The diagram below shows the proportions of
loan and security interest in the total income of the Mortgage Fund.
The Structure of Income of the Mortgage Fund
120.00%
10000% _.
0,00% -V.
60.00% l
40.00%
20.00%
0,00%
1995     1996      1997     1998
income from interests   . income form investments in secuties|
Source: Bank Rozwoju Budownictwa Mieszkaniowego S.A.
- 15 -



Consideration of the Mortgage Fund's activity in purely financial categories, measured with the volume of
loans granted and profits achieved, is not sufficient. The Mortgage Fund has undisputed achievements.
The most important of them are:
*  popularization of loans with capitalized interests as a financial instrument which radically
increases accessibility of mortgage loans in conditions of a high inflation and unstable economy,
*   gaining of participating banks which having freedom in fixing their margins started to compete for
clients, and that means a continuing improvement of service of the dwellings construction and
purchase financing market,
*  making it possible for small banks to be players in the housing financing market,
*  introduction to the market of standardized, good quality, long-term mortgage loans,
*  development of a network of banks granting mortgage loans - at present there are about 20 banks.
BudBank with its Mortgage Fund is the only bank with experience in the field of mortgage loan
re-financing.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
- 16 -



10. Additional Information
I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT OF THE COMPONENT TO SUPPORT SMEs
DAMAGED BY THE FLOODS
A. Introduction
During July 1997, Poland (together with Germany and the Czech Republic) was hit with the worst flooding
in over a century. Provinces in the upper and middle Odra River basin and upper Vistula River basin were
affected, with flooding covering about 25 percent of their territory. In Poland, this flooding resulted in over
60 deaths and significant damnage to housing, roads, municipal services and to agriculture and industrial
production facilities, including small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Damage was estimated at PLN 10
billion, about US$3.0 billion. To assist the Government of Poland in its flood recovery efforts and to
supplement other government- and donor-funded programs, the Government sought additional resources
from the Bank. In response, the Bank accelerated appraisal of the Second Roads Project to which a flood
recovery component was added (US$300 million loan approved in November 1997), prepared an
Emergency Flood Recovery Loan (US$200 million loan approved in December 1997), and amended the
ongoing Housing Project to utilize uncommitted funds to assist SMEs affected by the flood. Following an
assessment of the needs in early September 1997, an arnendment was submitted to the Board on September
30, 1997, on a no-objection basis, and approved by the Board as of October 10, 1997. Under this
amendment about US$16.0 million of the Housing Loan was reallocated to be used to help finance the
Government's SME Flood Recovery Program. This Section provides an assessment of the SME flood
recovery program part of the Housing Loan. It has been prepared as a separate Section of the ICR in
recognition of the fact that this component had totally different objectives, implementing agencies and
achievements from those of the project as originally designed.
As a result of elections in September 1997 elections and the subsequent change in government, the SME
recovery program was not implemented as initially designed. The new Government, which took office in
November 1997, placed flood recovery high on its agenda and confirmed its intention to provide financial
assistance to SMEs in the flood affected areas. However, although the thrust and objectives of the program
remained the same, the incoming authorities wished to change the design of the program. Consequently, a
revised SME assistance program, prepared in consultation with the Bank, was approved by the Council of
Ministers in late March 1998. The main change in the program was to shift responsibility for its
implementation and monitoring from the Industrial Development Agency (IDA) to the Polish Agency for
Regional Development (PARR) and to simplify the mechanism for passing the funds on to the affected
enterprises (see below). Following preparation of detailed project implementation plan and signature of the
formal letter of amendment to the Housing Loan, implementation of the SME Flood Recovery Project got
underway in July 1998, by which time the program covered by the original Housing Project had been
completed and the same geographical area had suffered a second flood.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Project Description and Key Objectives
As the Government did not have an existing SME assistance program that could be utilized in an
emergency, it had to create a totally new one to support SMEs in response to the flood disaster. It adopted
a National Reconstruction and Modernization Program at the end of July 1997. This provided for a three
- 17 -



stage recovery program over the short, medium and long term to restore productive activities, rehabilitate
and upgrade infrastructure and put in place a revamped water management and flood prevention system.
As part of this effort, the main objective of the project was to help SMEs to recover from business losses
and physical darnage suffered as a result of the flood, thus helping to restore production and economic
growth Assistance to SMEs included support from the EU Flood Damage Reconstruction Program, special
funds from the Ministiy of Economy and from a special fund for micro-enterprises. However, these
programs had very specific eligibility criteria and were not available for most SMEs. Furthermore, these
resources were insufficient to cover all estimated losses.
In the context of this program, the Government established a Special Emergency Rehabilitation Fund to
make preferential loans to, and/or equity investments in, flood-affected firms to help them get back on their
feet. Financing for this was to come from the government budget, the Industrial Development Agency and
the uncommitted portion of the Housing Loan. Bank funding for this facility was officially requested at the
end of August 1997. The SME program was appraised, including a field visit to the flood affected areas,
during the first half of September, as part of the Bank's response to the emergency situation. A proposed
amendment to the Housing Loan was submitted for Board approval, on a no-objection basis, at the end of
September and approved as of October 10, 1997. However, given the change in Government as a result of
the elections, the Rehabilitation Fund was never put into operation.
The new Govermment, which took office in early November 1997, put assistance for the flood affected
areas high on its agenda, but decided against continuing with the SME assistance scheme as designed by
the previous Government. Shortly after taking office, the new Minister for Flood Recovery initiated work
on a revised program, which was approved by the Council of Ministers in March 1998. The major change
was to use commercial banks as the principal agent for channeling assistance to SMEs (instead of the
Rehabilitation Fund) and lo combine commercial credit with non-repayable or grant assistance from the
Government, the latter financed from the budget, including resources received from the Bank loan. PARR
replaced IDA as the agency responsible for the overall coordination and implementation of the program.
Under the revised scheme, eligible SMEs, i.e., SMEs which could document losses from the 1997 flood,
would first obtain a bank loan on commercial terms. These procedures included following standard
commnercial bank practiecs, including preparing business plans and other documents needed to clarify the
nature of their business and financing needs and to provide evidence that the loan could be repaid. The
SMEs could then apply for assistance from the Government, in the form of a grant, of up to 40 percent of
the amount borrowed. This effectively reduced the cost of the commercial bank loan and thus encouraged
and facilitated enterprise efforts to restore full production.
Under the program, business plans were to be kept as simple as possible for the smallest SMEs. For larger
SMEs, the banks would require standard business and financing plans. Financing provided under the
program was to be used to reconstruct buildings and replace other assets damaged or destroyed by the
flood, including materials or stocks needed for production. The prograrn also pernitted up to 30 percent of
the total assistance provided to be used to finance investmnents needed to modermize and improve the
enterprise. The grant could also be used to repay commercial loans contracted by the firms but which
could not be repaid because of the losses and difficulties encountered in restoring production and income.
Commercial banks participating in the program were allowed to charge interest on the SME loans up to the
level of the prevailing Lombard Rate (the rate at which commercial banks can obtain financing from the
National Bank of Poland (NBP)), if they are short of funds. At the time the program started, this rate was
around 27-28 percent, compared to the nornal market rate for lending to businesses of around 22 percent.
As flood recovery assistance at such a high rate would not have been very helpful or accepted, the
Government proposed to reduce the cost of SME borrowing by providing a subsidy from the budget. The
- 18 -



initial proposal was for an interest rate subsidy, but following discussions with the Bank, and to avoid any
risk of distorting the banking and financial markets, it was agreed to finance up to 40 percent of the SME
loan as a grant, with the grant funded from the budget, including financing from the Housing Loan. For
grants up to PLN 35,000, the beneficiary was expected to receive the full 40 percent of the commercial
bank loan as a grant. Commercial banks would have approval authority for grants of up to this amount.
For grants larger than PLN 35,000, the percentage was determined by PARR, based on need, and
submitted to the Minister for Flood Recovery for approval. Grants of over PLN 100,000 were subject to
prior review of the Bank.
According to Government estimates, about 9,400 enterprises (employing at least 5 persons) suffered
damages from the flood, including damage to equipment, buildings and materials. Total losses for these
enterprises was estimated at PLN 3.0 billion (about US$900 million), including losses of about PLN 642
million (about US$190 million) suffered by SMIEs (originally defined as enterprises employing up to 250
persons and subsequently amended to include enterprises employing up to 400 persons). Of these, the
Government initially expected that about 3,000 to 4,000 SMEs would apply for financing under the
progran, and that the total amount of commercial bank and governnent resources required would reach
PLN 300 to 400 million (US$88 to 118 million). The bulk of this assistance was expected to be utilized by
small firms employing less than 20 individuals.
Responsibility for managing program implementation was given to PARR. PARR, which had experience
in dealing with the Regional Development Agencies and handling of grant assistance provided through
certain EU programs, organized a network of advisers operating through RDAs located in the flood
affected areas to identify eligible SMEs and assist them in preparing credit applications for the commnercial
banks participating in the scheme.
C. Extent of Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
Achievement of Objectives
Although the number of SME beneficiaries turned out to be substantially less than initially projected, the
project achieved its principal goal of providing a significant level of assistance to SMfEs, and did help to
restore production and economic growth in the flood affected area. However, the impact of the program
was not as great as initially anticipated, in part because of the delay in start-up. By the time funds from the
program started to flow, almost one year after the flood, some enterprises had already ceased operations.
The first grant under the program was approved at the beginning of July 1998. As of end June 1999, when
the final applications for assistance were submitted, a total of 586 enterprises had received government
grants totaling PLN 46.9 million (about US$13.0 million) - bringing total commitments to about 80 percent
of the US$16 million allocated from the housing loan for the SME assistance operation. Overall,
substantial assistance was provided under the program and the outcome of the project was positive.
The program mobilized PLN 126 million (about US$32.6 million) in commercial bank resources and
disbursed PLN 46.6 million (about US$12.3 million) in grant form (slightly less than the total committed as
some of the approved grants were not fully disbursed by the Loan Closing Date). About PLN 22 million
($5.5 million) was provided from the beneficiaries own funds. Of the total assistance, 85 percent was
provided to enterprises employing 50 people or less, for amounts of less than $100,000 equivalent. Only
10 grants were made for more than this amount. In terns of numbers, about 350 of the total number of
grants were for less than PLN 35,000 each (about $10,000).
-19-



Following approval of the revised SME assistance program by the Council of Ministers, PARR, as the
main implementing agency for the programn, prepared and signed implementation agreements with eleven
commercial banks  (Bank  Przemyslowo-Handlowy  (BPH), Bank  Zachodni, Bank  Gospodarki
Zywnosciowej (BGZ), Bank Slaski, Kredyt Bank (PBI), Gornoslaski Bank Gospodarczy, Bank
Wspolpracy Regionalnej, Prosper Bank, Gospodarczy Bank Poludniowo - Zachodni, Bank Ochrony
Srodowiska and Pekao S.A) which had agreed to participate in the SME program. PARR also initiated a
promotion and information campaign, worked out detailed loan application procedures with the banks
concemed, and established a regional coordination and advisory network. The nine RDAs located in
Opole, Katowice, Rzezow, Mielec, Walbrzych, Nowa Ruda, Zielona Gora, and Krakow were made
regionai coordinators for the programn and about 100 consultants were hired or appointed as advisors to
identify SMEs requiring assistance and the help individual SMEs with their loan and grant applications.
Bank financing for the program was also finalized during the initial implementation period. This included
reaching agreement with the Minister for Flood Recovery and PARR on a Project Implementation Plan
(PIP), spelling out arrangements for program implementation and reaching agreement with the Minister for
Flood Recovery and the Ministry of Finance on an amendment to the Housing Project Loan Agreement to
formally include the SME component. The Government also decided to establish a separate Special
Account to handle disbursements and made the Small and Medium Enterprise Department of the Ministry
of Economy responsible for managing the Special Account. The amendment to the Housing Loan and PIP
were finalized in early June 1998.
The grant approval process generally worked smoothly. However, experience with the large grants (over
US$100,000), which required Bank approval, showed that SMEs were not able to prepare fully adequate
b-tusiness plans. Procedures for approval of such grants were not detailed in the PIP but were to be
fine-tuned based on actual experience. After receipt of the first large application, Bank staff provided some
guidance on how business plans should be prepared, and provided sample formats. This helped for future
applications but was not sufficient. One possible solution would have been for PARR to provide
specialized training to program advisers on business plan preparation and information requirements.
D. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
Following the floods in July 1997, the initial SME support program was prepared by the Government
reasonably quickly and was essentially ready to go in September 1997, two months after the flood. It took
the new Government much longer to design and reach agreement on the revised SME program prepared by
and effectively it did not get underway until close to a year after the flood, by which tirne a second flood
had affected the same area. This delay limited the number of beneficiaries, since by the time the
Government's program was ready to go, many enterprises had either found alternative resources to help
with their recovery or had ceased operations.
An additional factor affecting the number of beneficiaries is related to the cost structure for the commercial
bank lending. The conmmercial banks were initially able to price their SME loans above the prevailing
market rate for standard commercial lending. This gave them more incentive to lend to companies with
higher risks. However, during the course of implementation of the program, the National Bank lowered its
Lombard rate to 17 percent in early 1999 as part of its efforts to bring market interest rates closer to the
level of inflation. As a consequence, the amount of interest which the commercial banks could charge
20 -



SMEs for new loans came down sharply, thus reducing the risk premium and sharply lirniting commercial
bank interest or willingness to make additional loans to SMEs under the program.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
In addition to the delay in getting program underway, there were other factors which limited the number of
actual beneficiaries. One important factor, particularly for the very small enterprises, was the reluctance of
SMEs to borrow from commercial banks at the prevailing rates. Many very srnall enterprises lacked an
established relationship with a commercial bank. Such firns were not used to working with a commercial
bank and were reluctant to do so, even if this meant giving up the possibility of receiving grant assistance
from the Govenmment. Another difficulty, also for the smaller firms, was the fact that mnany found it
difficult to meet standard commercial bank requirements for obtaining a loan, including collateral
requirements and adequate accounting records.
Project Sustainability
The program was designed to meet SME needs during an emergency and therefore had a limnited operaional
time-frame. However, overall experience with the assistance mechanism has generally been positive and it
could be used in the event that similar emergencies occur at a later date. The main drawback is that the
program was used primarily by SMEs which already had established relationships with commercial banks.
To reach other SMEs, particularly the very small ones, the program would need to be modified, or an
alternative emergency assistance program designed.
Bank Performance
Preparation and AppraisaL The SNE program was prepared as an amendment to the Housing Project but
the program was separate from the housing project. The program, in effect, had to be handled as a new
operation, although the processing steps were considerably shorter and less involved given the emergency
nature of the assistance. Once the immnediate flood emergency was under control, the Bank moved quickly
to discuss with Government options for Bank assistance to help with the recovery effort. The proposed
SME support program was appraised promptly and the proposed amendment to the Housing Loan
circulated to the Board and approved on an accelerated schedule. However, with the elections and the
change in Government, agreement on a revised SME assistance program took much longer than initially
expected. Once the Government had approved the SME support program, the Bank proceeded as rapidly
as possible to finalize implementation arrangements and process the actual amendment of the loan. It
demonstrated considerable flexibility in adapting the implementation arrangements to meet the requirements
of the new Government. The Bank's role in preparation and appraisal of the project was therefore
satisfactory, although actual startup of assistance to the SMEs was delayed considerably, mainly because
of the time taken by the Government to put the new program together.
Supervision. The SME Flood Recovery Project was supervised primarily from the World Bank Office in
Warsaw. Following the retirement of the Task Team Leader, task management for the final nine months of
operation of the program was handled from headquarters. Supervision from the field for this operation was
very effective and the handover was smooth. As the activity was winding down by that time, effectiveness
was not diminished by the transfer of responsibility to headquarters staff. Supervision was limited
primarily to monitoring the work of PARR, which was responsible for program imnplementation on the
Government side. Overall supervision performance was satisfactory. The project was included in the
QAG's 2000 Quality of Supervision Assessment and was rated satisfactory.
-21 -



Borrower's Performance
Three government offices were involved in the preparation and implementation of the SME program and
Bank loan. These included the Office of the Minister for Flood Recovery, the Department of Small and
Medium Enterprises in the Ministry of the Economy, and the PARR. The Minister for Flood Recovery and
his office had primary responsibility for putting the program together and for overall supervision. The
Minister was actively engaged in the SME program and provided effective support, especially during the
design and start up of the program. The Ministry of Economy was responsible for operating the project
special account. PARR was assigned primary responsibility for program implementation. It took an active
role in getting implementation under way, including working with RDAs in the flood affected areas, getting
the programn advisory system up and running and carrying out initial promotion activities, and monitoring
implementation by the commercial banks. The overall performance each of these government offices was
satisfactory.
Key Lessons Learned
a. In order to deal effectively and promptly with an emergency situation, governments should have
financial assistance programs already prepared, so that they can be activated quickly. Although this
project was a one time operation to help meet an emergency situation and further bank lending for this
purpose is not planned, the assistance approach and mechanism developed by the Government could be
used for a future emergency response system. However, the process of getting the program up and
running would need to be streamlined so that assistance to SMEs would start as soon as possible after
the emergency. Moreover, program parameters would need to be revised to maintain conmmercial bank
interest in making loans under such an emergency program and further work would be needed to ensure
that the very small enterprises are able to access such assistance.
b. The role of the advisors to assist SMEs in preparing credit and grant applications was crucial to the
success of the program, although these advisers worked only part-time for the program and were paid
based on the success of the associated applications from the beneficiaries, the number of advisers hired
was probably too high, given the total number of beneficiaries that the program eventually assisted.
c. In addition to the importance of timely delivery of assistance, emergency assistance programs should
also be tailored to take into account the implementation capacity of the beneficiaries.
d. Commercial bank lending to very small enterprises is often problematic, given problems with collateral
and because of their limited contact with commercial banks. As a consequence, it may be better to
consider a non-bank approach to providing assistance to small SMEs in an emergency situation.
II. BORROWER'S ASSESSMENT OF THE PROGRAM
This section is based on the Borrower's full report, which can be found in the project file.
The catastrophic flood of July 1997 caused estimated aggregate losses for all economic entities of PLN
2817.7 million. Of this, about PLN 641.9 million was suffered by SMEs employing between 6 and 250
persons. Additionally, some of these enterprises were affected once again by the flood of 1998. Given the
importance of SMEs to the economy (they account for over 60 percent of total employment and 99.78
percent of all enterprises) the Polish Government resolved to launch a progrmme of non-repayable
assistance, prepared in collaboration with the World Bank, to specifically compensate SMEs operating in
- 22 -



the regions affected by the flood. The programme, started in April 1998, provided assistance for
reconstructing assets that were indispensable for the proper operation of the SME sector, and for restoring
capacity to generate profit and to increase the number of jobs in the SME sector in the flood-affected
regions. The Government also resolved to contribute to the modernisation of enterprises by allocating a
portion of the assistance funds to their development.
Programme, Beneficiaries and Participating Banks
The Programme provided beneficiaries non-repayable co-financing of up to 40 percent of the value of loans
contracted from one of the banks participating in the Programme. The total financing, comprising the
commercial bank loan and the non-repayable assistance, could cover up to 100 percent of the project cost
for the reconstruction of the production and working assets. According to the programme assumptions, up
to 30 percent of the total financing could be earmarked for the development and modernisation of the
company. The bank loans were provided for five-year investment loans or two-year working capital loans,
with an extended grace period of 18 months for investment loans and 6 months for working capital loans, at
an interest rate not exceeding the rate of NBP's credit on secuities.
The Programme was open for those entrepreneurs who fulfilled the following eligibility criteria:
* SMEs conducting business activity before the flood and which suffered losses directly as a result of the
flood;
SMEs employing no more than 250 persons prior to the flood, regardless of the form of ownership and
excluding activities classified under agriculture;
* In the event that SMEs received non-repayable assistance from other sources, the amount of granted
co-financing was reduced by that value.
About 75 percent of beneficiaries were in the formner Opole, Wroclaw and Walbrzych voivodships, areas
which suffered the largest losses.
Eleven banks (87 branches in 46 towns) eventually participated: Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej; Bank
Ochrony Srodowiska; Bank Slaski; Bank Wsp6lpracy Regionalnej; Bank Zachodni; Gospodarczy Bank
Poludniowo-Zachodni; G6rnslaski Bank Gospodarczy; Kredyt Bank PBI; Bank Pekao; Prosper Bank and
Bank Przemyslowo - Handlowy.
Free technical assistance was provided to participating entrepreneurs by consultants financed from the
State budget. Their task was to reach potential beneficiaries, present the offered assistance, check eligibility
criteria, assess the conformance of the project objectives, assist in filing loan applications and in collecting
required documentation. The consultants night accompany entrepreneurs to the bank and assist in loan
negotiations, a step which was particularly important to beneficiaries who contracted their first bank loan
under the Programme. The Polish Agency for Regional Development (PARR) cooperated with about 50
consultants operating directly in the regions and also entered into arrangements with 9 institutions that
already worked with the SME conmmunity to be Regional Coordinators. Their main tasks included
organizing a network of consultants, monitoring their activities, and promoting the Programme.
Programme implementation
On behalf of the Polish Govenunent, the persons responsible for the Progranune were Janusz Steinhoff,
Minister of Economy, and Jerzy Widzyk, Minister - Member of the Council of Ministers. The Polish
Government designated PARR the National Co-ordinator. Since preparatory work had been started much
earlier, PARR concluded cooperation agreements with 11 commercial banks immediately following its
- 23 -



appointment. Between April-June 1998, attention focused on promoting the Programme and initiating
activities, to ensure that all concerned parties had a thorough understanding of the programmne assumptions
and procedures for awarding grants. Furthermore, throughout programme duration, PARR was available to
answer questions and solve problems. The first applications for loans and co-financing were submnitted to
banks in late May 1998. The contracting period, initially scheduled to end by December 30, 1998, was
extended until June 30, 1999. An independent audit of the Programme, carried out in June and July 2000,
confirmed full compliance of fund allocation and application of the awarded co-financing by the
beneficiaries with the conditions set out in programme assumptions and the World Bank guidelines.
Principles of awarding aid
In order to be awarded co-financing, the beneficiaries had to submit to the conmmercial bank applications
for co-financing, either in relation to existing loans or with new loan applications, together with the
required documnentation. The economic, financial and technical feasibility of applications were analyzed by
bank staff to determine the realistic possibility of executing the planned project and to avoid contracting
loans whose payments would present an excessive burden in the future. For co-financing under PLN
35,000, banks concluded agreements with the beneficiaries and forwarded their copies to PARR. For
amounts in excess of 35,000 PLN, applications were additionally evaluated by PARR emnployees and The
Office of Flood Damage Reconstruction and endorsed by the Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers,
Jerzy Widzyk. Grants over US$100,000 had to be additionally approved by the World Bank.
The implementation of the investment project and the disbursement of the co-financing were closely
monitored by the disbursing bank. Co-financing awarded under the Programme was transferred by the bank
directly to the account of the provider of goods and services purchased by the beneficiary under the
implemented project, against relevant invoices.
Programme outputs
Loans, totaling approximately PLN 126.3 million, and co-financing, totaling approximately PLN 46.95
million, were granted to 586 entrepreneurs. Four beneficiaries did not draw their loans (and consequently
did not receive the co-financing), bringing total beneficiaries to 582. Nine companies drew down less than
the total amount awarded. As a result, 99.24 percent of the funds contracted under the Programme were
disbursed. Initial implementation was slow with only 19 agreements approved by July 1998, in part
because of problems encountered by bank staff in the interpretation of the progranune assunmtions.
Clarifying these questions prolonged the decision-making process but provided valuable experience for the
future. The consultants also played an important role, and their services were positively evaluated as being
extremely professional, and sometimes indispensable.
The following table shows the number and values of concluded agreements in each co-financing category.
-24 -



Percentage share of agreements concluded under the Programme
Amount ofco-financing   Number of  Percentage  Total Value  Percentage  Average
agreements   of total   (PLN)      of total   co-financing (PLN)
Under PLN 35.000      351        60%       7,546,230    16,1%             21,499
Over PLN 35.000       225        38%      32,453,155    69,1%            144,236
Over US$100.000        10        2%        6,951,675    14,8%            695,167
Source: PARR
The minimum co-financing offered under the Programme was PLN 1,000 to a retail company (natural
person running own business) with 3 employees. The largest co-financing, of PLN 1,219,000, was to a
joint-stock company employing 154 staff. About 85 percent of agreements were for companies employing
up to 50 persons, mostly family businesses employing no more than 5 staff. Medium-sized enterprises
accounted for 14.3 percent of agreements. Four agreements were concluded with enterprises employing
over 250 staff. These were cases when employment, based on the company data from June 1997, slightly
exceeded 250 but was lower at the time of applying for assistance. Each of these enterprises obtained
individual permission of the Minister for making use of the Programme.
The amount of the aid depended on the amount of the contracted loan, which in turn, considered not only
the losses suffered by a given enterprise but also the beneficiaries' capacity to repay the contracted
obligations. In some cases the beneficiaries would reduce the amount of aid, especially in case of
co-financing exceeding US$100,000, as these had to be endorsed by the World Bank and required specially
prepared documents. The additional time required for this process could delay implementation of the
investment project by several months, possibly exposing the company to losses caused by increased prices
of building materials, higher foreign exchange rates in dealings with foreign contractors, etc.
The banks were responsible for awarding loans and grants to beneficiaries, for monitoring project
implementation and supervising disbursement of funds to beneficiaries. The first grants were paid out in
September 1998; the final disbursements were made by end-June 2000. Final loan repayments should be
made by the end of 2005. about 58 percent of the total of loans were made for working capital, 36 percent
for investment loans, and 6 percent for restructuring loans contracted before the flood. The projects were
financed from three sources: loans, co-financing and beneficiaries' own funds, as shown in the following
table.
Sources offinancing as a percentage of the total amount of implemented projects
Share in PLN         Percentage share
Loans                              125,507,359             65%
-Co-financing                       46,.597,239            24%
Beneficiaries' own funds           21,.684,233             11%
Total                    193,788,831            100%
Source: PARR
On completion of grant disbursements, the banks were asked to send PARR implementation reports of loan
agreements and co-financing, including data relating to the estimated value of the beneficiaries' fixed and
working assets before the flood and after implementation of the project. The data relating to the value of
fixed assets were provided by 449 (86 percent) of the 582 beneficiaries; for working assets 509 (87
- 25 -



percent) of beneficiaries provided data. The results are summarized in the following table.
Change of beneficiaries 'fixed assets and working capital after project completion
Comparison of Fixed Assets        Comparison of Working Capital
# beneficiaries   Percentage of total   # beneficiaries   Percentage of total
Increase         356               61%               391               67%
No change         60               10%               28                5%
Decrease          86               15%               90                15%
No data           80               14%                73               13%
Total         582              100%               582              100%
Source: PARR
It can be concluded the funds obtained under the Programme helped to compensate for the flood losses for
those beneficiaries reporting either an increase or no change in their total value of fixed assets or in the
working capital. It is possible that the 15 percent of beneficiaries who recorded lesser value of fixed assets
upon project completion or a lower value of the working assets upon project completion needed higher
capital expenditures to reproduce the flood losses and regain their pre-flood standing.
Monitoring of Programme implementation
PARR monitored programme implementation based on bank reports. The requests to pay submitted to
PARR by the banks were particularly well scrutinised. By the end of October 2000, 171 beneficiaries had
fully repaid loans contracted under the Programme. By the end of November 2000, only one co-financing
agreement was terminated owing to a serious breach of its provisions and discontinuing of business activity
by the beneficiary. In this case, the bank is pursuing court action. In two cases, the banks are involved in
negotiations to restructure loans. If no agreement is reached, PARR will be obliged to terminate the
co-financing agreements.
Conclusions from programme implementation
1. The Programme enjoyed a lot of interest from beneficiaries and was much needed, although it was
launched only one year after the July 1997 flood. It would be advisable to develop appropriate
mechanisms at the central or regional level which would allow for a speedier launch of assistance to
SMEs in case of any natural calamity in the future. In such circumstances, time is of crucial
importance.
2. A serious problem for SMEs which had not satisfied their financial needs using bank services before
was to fulfill the requirements of the banks granting the loans. The entrepreneurs had problems
preparing the necessary documentation, developing suitable business plans, submitting suitable loan
security, etc. Therefore substantive technical assistance proved extremely useful. Those entrepreneurs
who used the consultants thought very highly of their services, which they evaluated as sometimes
invaluable, particularly during negotiations with commercial banks.
3. The applications were subject to normal evaluation procedures in the bank. Considering the fact that
they were submitted by companies which had suffered during the flood, their creditworthiness was in
many cases evaluated as being lower than it would probably have been before the flood. Hence the
possibility of obtaining funds offered under the Programme was frequently less than company
expectations. On the other hand, however, the adopted procedure ensured that loans repayments would
- 26 -



not deplete the profit generated by the company, which might be undesirable for the company's future
development.
4. The combination of loans and non-repayable co-financing provided under the Programme, is
characterised by a high degree of financial security. The entrepreneurs feel the assumed assistance
effect, while not evading liability for the proper utilisation of the awarded funds. The need to repay the
loan with interest guaranteed that entrepreneurs treated non-repayable assistance as a component of a
specific commercial project and not as a gift.
5. In many cases the award of co-financing was a stimulus to using banking services for the first time.
Monitoring of the companies proves that the beneficiaries, encouraged by the success of this initiative,
are willing to make use of bank loans in the future. This is undoubtedly a genuine success of the
Programme. An important output of the Programme is enhanced managerial awareness among the
entrepreneurs, to the benefit of their companies.
6. As this was not the only programme targeted at SMEs which suffered during the flood, its specific
qualities should be emphasised. It was a programme open to enterprises which did not fulfill eligibility
criteria under other programmes and grants. The programme allowed SMEs not only to recover the
losses, but also to allocate part of the loan and co-financing to the development and modemisation of
the company. It can be hoped therefore that in the future this will contribute to improving the situation
of the SME sector. In consequence, this should be translated into faster economic growth and increased
number of jobs, which is increasingly becoming both a regional and national priority.
7. Close co-operation of all the entities involved in its execution - the World Bank, governmental,
non-governmental and self-government institutions - was a prerequisite to the Programme's successful
implementation. Experiences and conclusions arising from this co-operation can provide a valuable
contribution to work on similar programmes (which, it is to be hoped, will not be necessary).
-27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
findicatorliMarIx  I              Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estinate
I. Key implementation indicators in SAR
1. Mortgage Loans                    27,000                               800
2. Housing unts                      15,000                               1,661
II. Modified indicators (if appicable)
1. Elminaton of interest subsidies                                        Interest subsidies eliminated April 1995
2. Affordable mortgage products     Introduction of unsubsidized DIM loans  Variety of mortgage products, available
through project estimated 27,000 DIM loans through project and using barnkng sector
to be made using project resources.  resourcss.
Over 50,000 unsubsidized DIM loans offered
through commercial banks since first
introduoed by project.
Project finances frst set of unsubsidized
loans (800 by completion).
3. Mortgage lending by commercial banks                                   Over 20 banks trained providing mortgages
by end 1997 uskig own resources.
9 banks participating in projecL
4. Existence of finandal institubion able to                              Mortgage fund operatrng but at substanbally
channel long term finance                                                 reduced scale.
Mortgage banking law enacted to create
mortgage institutons capable of issuing
bonds.
5- Restructuring of cooperative sector to                                 Subsidies on construction elminated in
reduce dependence on subsidies                                            1992.
Subsidies on mortgages elminated in 1995.
Relative share of private sector production                               90% of cooperative sector consists of small
associations with more efficient and shorter
construction period.
Private sector production share doubles to
53% of completions and over 90% of new
starts by end 1997.
6. No spedfic impact or output indicators  600 SMEs benefited from the flood recovery  600 SMEs benefited from the flood recovery
were developed for the SME component.   program                           program
Initialy 3,000-4,000 SMEs were expected to
benefit from the program.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMatrix                  Projected in ast PSR|                Actual/Latest EsUtmate
no specfic indicators in the SARIPAD
For the SME Recovery Program: grants of  Grants totaling about $12 2 million were  Grants totaling about $12.2 million were
up to $16 million equivalent to SMEs  disbursed                           disbursed
damaged by the flood
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Construction financing                             234.00          16.00              7
Mortgage financing                                 324.00           14.30             4
Technical assistance                                10.00           5.60             56
Design, administration                              28.00           2.00              7
Short-tern investments                                             15.50
SME component (included in 1997, when the project was  118.00      50.36
restructured)
Total Baseline Cost                                714.00          103.76
Price Contingencies                                43.00           4.00              9
Total Project Costs            757.00         107.76
Interest during construction  38.00           2.00           5.00
Total Financing Required            795.00          109.76
Housing Components - Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Beneficiary down-payment                  167.0             167.0     22.7               22.7
Lending program financed by:
GOP
- Budget                                 133.0             133.0       7.3               7.3
- EBRD loan                               67.0              67.0       1.0               1.0
- Reinvestment loan collections                                        4.3               4.3
- Net income Mortgage Fund                                            2.8                2.8
Subtotal GOP                 200.0              200.0     15.4               15.4
USAID                                                                          10.0     10.0
IBRO                                              200.0    200.0                4.0      4.0
Participating banks                      100.0             100.0       1.71               1.7
Subtotal Lending Program     300.0    200.0    500.0      17.1     14.0      31.1
Various TA grants:
Japanese grant                                                                 1.0       1.0
EBRD                                                                           0.6       0.6
USAID                                        I     10.0     10.0               4.0       4.0
Subtotal TA Grants                      10.0     10.0         I     5.6       5.6
Total                        467.0    210.0    677.0      39.8     19.6      59.4
- 29 -



Note: USAID provided a Housing Guarantee loan of US$10 million which was added in support of the
project after appraisal.
Project Financing - Housing Components
in US Dollars and Zlotys
Beneficiar,v down payments                       167.0           22.7          52.9         2.33
Lending program financed by:
GOP
- Budget counterpart                            133.0            7.3          12.1         1.66
- EBRD Loan                                     67.0             1.0           2.4         2.40
- Reinvestment loan collections                                 4.3           12.4         2.86
- Net income Mortgage Fund                        0.0           2.8            8.0         2.86
USAID                                                           10.0          20.6         2.06
IBRD                                            200.0            4.0          11.6         2.90
Participating banks                             100.0            1.7           4.0         2.33
Various TA grants                                 10.0            5.6          13.1         2.33
Total                                677.0           59.4         137.1
SME Flood Recovery Program Financing Plan
(USS millions)
Item                              Appraisal     Act;aiLatlst    AcWl PLN mia
Estimate      Estimate         (av. exc4. "We)
Beneficiaries                              n.a.           5.54               21.68
IBRD                                     16.00           12.20               46.60
Participating Banks                      71.00           32.62              125.51
Govenmment                               26.60             n.a                  n.a
Industrial Development Agency             4.40               --                  --
Total                        118.0           50.36              193.79
Note:  Government financed the associated technical assistance progmm and administration of the
program, the cost of which are not included in the actual project cost
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
A standard economic rate of return analysis of the loan is not applicable. Inputting shadow rental values to
estimate the stream of benefits would be fraught with problems because until today prices have played no
role in the demand for and supply of housing services. However, the scarcity of housing in Poland
indicates that market rents should be very high, implying a high rate of return to investments in housing.
Housing is part of the Economic Transformation Program to move from admninistratively set to market
determined prices. As discussed in Chapter 2 of the SAR, the Project support Government's strategy to
gradually phase in reforms in the housing sector starting first with the development of a market for
homeowners. The initial effort, however, will need to be maintained and expanded beyond the
disbursement period of this loan.
The value of the Project consists of generating new sources of housing finance, rendering possible the
introduction of sustainable and unsubsidized lending to future homeowners. Efficiency gains would also
arise through design improvements. The injection of market principles in the financing of housing will
ensure that access to new housing will be decided by a financial intermediary that uses truly commercial
criteria in the allocation of its funds. The selection of housing investments financed by the project will
therefore be left to the market. The Mortgage Fund and the onlending banks will benefit from technical
assistance to help in the evaluation of proposed projects and the management of loans.
Distributional Impact. The proposed Project aims at developing a private supply of hosing and at
strengthening housing finance institutions. Since it has been designed to minimize subsidies to future
homeowners, who are expected to fully repay the borrowed amounts the project will serve that segment of
housing demand which can support development of a market-based supply. As long as full cost recovery
would be achieved from its beneficiaries, the project would introduce a more equitable system than the one
being replaced, which allocates subsidies in an indiscriminate fashion. In order to ensure that most
beneficiaries of the Project would be in middle to lower middle income brackets  upper limits have been
set on both the size of construction loans and the floor area of units that can be financed with proceeds
from the Mortgage Fund.
(i)
It should be noted in this context that the curve of income distribution for Poland is relatively flat up to the 8th
decile (an evident result of past equalization policies). Furthermore, there is inverse correlation between household
income and dwelling tenure: more than half of families in the two poorest deciles are homeowners (42% of them
are sole occupants of their own premises). See Poland: A Strategy for the Housing Sector, report of the Joint
Bank-Polish Task Force on Housing, July 1990.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
4//90
6/90
10/90
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/13/91                     6
11/91
Supervision
06-92                       1   Economist/Task Manager               S               S
06-93                       1   Economist                           HS              HS
02-93                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst              S               S
03-94                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst              U              U
06-94                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst              U               U
05-95                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst              U               S
11-95                       1   Economist                           U               S
06-96                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst              U               S
12-96                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst             U               S
06-97                       1   Economist                            U               S
07-97                       2   Economist, Fin. Analyst              S               S
09-97                       4   Economist, Op. Officer, Fin.         S               S
Analyst, Fin. Specialist
06-98                       1   Economist                            S               S
2-99                        1   Op. Officer                          S               S
6-99                        1   Op. Officer                          S               S
11-99                       2   Op. Officers                         S               S
6-2000                      2   Op. Officer, Fin. Specialist         S               S
ICR
07-98                       2    Economist, Fin. Analyst
06-00                       2    Op. Officer, Fin. Specialist
Ratings from 9-97 on (except for 6-98) refer to the SME Component for Flood Recovery.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              133.3                        501.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                    70.6                        275.6
Supervision                             105.6                        414.2
ICR                                       6.9                         28.5
Total                                   316.4                      1,220.1
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                           O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
3 Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
M Financial                                OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
O Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
3Environmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
3 Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
FZ Other (Please specify)           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Flood recovery
 Private sector development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
F Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
? Overall                                           OHS OS   O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS*S   O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance              O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
FS Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ICR Aide Memoire
Borrower's Assessment Report on the Implementation of the Housing Component of the Project.
Summaiy Financial Statements of BudBank
Report on Implementation of the Program for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises for the
Reconstruction and Development of Fixed and Working Assets Destroyed in the Floods of July 1997 and
1998 - Polish Agency for Regional Development, January 2001
- 35 -



