Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9853-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
HOUSING PROJECT
MAY 29, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Zloty (Zl)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
May
1987   1988    1989    1990      1991    1992
US$1.00 =  Zi    265    430   4,000   9,500    11,000  13,700
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
POLAND: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARM     =   Adjustable Rate Mortgage
BGZ     =   Bank for Food Economy
BUDBANK =   Housing Development Bank
DIM     =   Dual Index Mortgage
EBRD    =   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC      =   European Community
ETP     =   Economic Transformation Program
FRM     =   Fixed Rate Mortgage
HFPO    =   Housing Finance Project Office
GDP     =   Gross Domestic Product
GOP     =   Government of Poland
IBRD    =   International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
MF      =   Mortgage Fund
MOF     =   Ministry of Finance
MOSEC   =   Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction
NBP     =   National Bank of Poland
PKO BP  =   National Savings Bank



FOR OMFCIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POIANP
HOUSING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pace No.
Loan and Project Summary ......... ..................                i
I.    THE HOUSING SECTOR
A.    Overview ......................................... 1
B.    The Housing Stock ......... ......... .  ............ . 1
C.  Housing Supply                    ....... 4
D.    The Fiscal Problem . .............................. 6
E.    The Financial Problem ............................      6
II.   THE GOP HOUSIOG STRATEGY AND WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A.  The Challenge ....... 9
B.    The Approach               ..................................... 9
C.    Reducing Subsidies on New Housing Production ..... 10
D.    Reducing Subsidies on the Existing Housing Stock.11
E.    Managing the Public Housing Stock ................ ll
F.    Redefining the Role of Supply Agents ............. 13
G.    Revising the Legal and Institutional Framework ... 13
H.    Summing Up         .      .. ...................... 15
III.  THE PROJECT
A.    Introduction ................17
B.    Project Objectives and Description . ...... 18
C.' Project Components                   9. ... 19
D.    Criteria of Sub-Project Eligibility .20
E.    Project Cost and Financing .......................21
F.  Environmental Impact .24
G.    Project Implementation       .    ............ . ..... 24
H.    Procurement      .      ......                         26
I.    Commitments and Disbursement .28
J.    Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring . ..... 29
K.  Accounting and Auditing .30
This report was prepared on the basis of a May 1991 appraisal mission by a tem comprising Gian Cado Guarda
TCask Manager), Mrgret Thalw  (Eomist), Pete Doty, Lubom. Fiindd li,Han Matras ad Timoth Smit
(Consdlta). EC2 frastructure is dt resone division (Hans J. Apiz, Chid, EC21N) in the C;etral Empe
Departmni (Kn Deris, Director, EC2). Bertrand Reaud AMT  and Robot Bkley INURD) acd s Peer
Reviews. L"raie Ftgerad, Hes Fros, Per Wag, and Jams Lacr asemMed the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)
Page o2.
IV.   THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
A.    Current Structure of the Financial Sector    ** ...... 31
B     Ongoing Reform of the Financial Sector ....... .......  31
C.    Housing Finance Issues          ................................ 32
D.   The Mortgage Fund ........... ......... o_ ..   . . ...... 34
E.    The Participating Banks        .................  . . . .. . . . . .  .37
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Benefits.................. 40
B. Risks ...........41
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED   .     ................... .. .......... **42
VII.  LIST OF TABLES..............................................
Table 1:  Occupied Dwellings by Type of Investor--
and Location ............. o .                  , .2
Table 2:  GOP Housing Expenditures in 1990 and 1991
Budgets.. 7
Table 3:  Project Costs ................   .............. .22
Table 4:  Financing Plan for Construction Component ...        23
Table 5:  Financing Plan for Mortgage Component  ........... 23
Table 6s  Consolidated Financial Plan  . ............... 24
Table 7:  Project Procurement and Dlabureement.- ........... 27
ANNEXES
Housing Policy Statement .................        ........ *9*A
Legislation Affecting the Housing Sector ...... 
Ordinance of the Council of Ministerss March 25, 1991 ...... C-1
Ordinance of the Council of Ministers: October 1, 1991...-C-II
Resolution No. 2 of BUDBANK Assembly of Shareholders ....... D-I
Resolution No. 3 of BUDBANK Assembly of Shareholders ...... D-11
Operational Manual Contents .....       ......... .............E
Application for Construction Credit    F.        ............ .1'
Standard Contract Forms       ........ . . ......... *-*.
Cash Flow Projections of the Mortgage Fund ...
Dual Index Mortgage Amortization Table .....................
Project Profiles .........            .............. , *;
Analysis of Project Costs ..... . . . ..... .
Technical Assistance Program. .........L
Reporting and Monitoring System       ..... ...... . .. 
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement      ....       ..........
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File .. . . . .... ...... ... ..               ..O .. . ..



REPUBLIC OF POLAND
HOUSING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrow rs         Republic of Poland
Executina         Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction of the Republic
A&encies:         of Poland;  BUDBANK
Beneficiaries:    Approximately 27,000 individual households purchasing homes
or flats under mortgage arrangements; private developers,
participating municipalities
Amounts           US$200 million equivalent
Terms:            Seventeen years, including a four-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relendina Terms: BUDBANX's Mortgage Fund would finance up to 80 percent of
the value of mortgages issued by the participating banks at
a variable interest rate at least 300 basis points above the
Basic Interest Rate of the National Bank of Poland.  Repay-
ment would be linked to the cashflow of the underlying
indexed mortgages.
Proiect           To support the transition from heavily subsidized, centrally
Obiectivess       controlled housing production to more efficient, market-
based supply through private initi$tive. The project
objectives are: (i) creation of banking services to finance
mortgages; (ii) greater private sector role in housing
production; (iii) incentives to split existing cooperatives
into smaller home-builder associations; (iv) competitive
bidding for construction contracts; (v) pricing of land as
part of housing costs; (vi) removal of legal and regulatory
constraints to private initiative; and (vii) greater
efficiency in the use of scarce local Government resources.
Proiect           A Line of credit for Mortaaaes:  To alleviate the risks of
pescrihtion:      long term-lending when inflation is high and volatile, the
mortgage instrument would be one that charges a variable
market rate of interest while regularly adjusting payments
to changes in nominal wages (a Dual Index Mortgage or DIM).
When payments are less than amortization due, the unpaid
part would be added to the loan balance to be paid off over
the lifetime of the loan. The onlending banks, therefore,
should be able to bridge the resulting liquidity gap. The
special credit program supported by the proposed loan would
finance some 27,000 dual index mortgages.



- il -
A Line of Credit for Construction:  A line of credit (up to
three years) would finance construction of about 15,000 new
dwelling unlt- in projects to b- carried out by developers.
Costs may include civil works, land, smaller infrastructure
and worklng capltal. A first-year pipeline of sample sub-
projects has been identified in fourteen cltiea throughout the
country with an estimated aggregate cost of US$210 mlllion.
Technical Aseistance: The principal reciplents of Technical
Assistance would be: i) the Mortgage Fund; Li) the Project
Unit within the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction;
iii) participating banks willing to engage in mortgage
lending; and iv) municLpalitLes undertaking reform of land use
practices, financial management and urban infrastructure
planning.
Benefitg and    The principal benefits of the project would be efficiency
Rieks:          galns from a market-based system of housing production and
finance. The project would contribute to the recovery and
restructuring of the sector and would increase mobility and
choice in the housing market. Competitive pricing would
stimulate productivity and help contain unit costs.
Additional benefits would accrue from the extenslve program of
technical assistance to local governmente, banks and
investors. The project's principal beneficiaries would be
families of middle and lower-middle income.
The project has been designed to offset the following rikes:
(L) relatively high inflation rates and slow growth in real
Lncome would be neutralized by the mortgage instrument;
(ii) interest rate subsidies would be eliminated to protect
development of market-baoed housing finance;
(iii) inexperienced banking inetitutions, central and local
administrations, and private investors would receive technical
assistance to apply new policies, instruments and procedures;
(iv) escalating constructlon costs should be contained through
price competition so as to preserve affordability to the
original target group; and
(v) obsolete municipal regulations would be revised to
encourage private initiatlve.



- itii -
Prolect Costs:                                                    Local          Forelon         Toal
-  In USS millions-..
Construction Caxpownt                          164           70           234
Mortgge C"ponmnt                            227           97            324
Technicat Assistance Comporent                -           10             10
Design, Supervision, Ariinistration          19            9             28
Base Cost                              410          186            5
Physicat .antingencls                        17            7             24
Price Contingences                           13            6             19
,otat Project Cost                    44            199           63
Interest During Corntruction (IDC)           27           11            38
Total Financing Required               467           2             A7Z
FioMno Pa13IBRO                                                             200           200
EBRD                                                      67             67
Goverr,cnt                                  133            -            133
Partic ,ating Banks                         100            -            100
Investors                                   167            -            167
TA Donors                                     -           10             10
Total Ffnoncfna Reauired               463                        int
IBRD fiscal Year
Estimated                                         Z        52    2&        21       26      It       21
DfstLrsemmits                                     -----------------       in USS, Ilions--..................
Annual                 13        16    32       36         36      39       28
Cuawlative             13        29    61       97        133    172       200
Economic Rate of
Returns Not applicable
Not applicable



Chapter I. THE HOUSING SECTOR
A. Overvie
1.01        The Leaacv of th  Past. Housing used to play an important role in
Poland'sa economy throughout the 1980's: it accounted for approximately 6
percent of GDP and 18 percerLt of total investment; construction jobs hovered
around 7 percent of total eAployment while between 8 and 13 percent of the
central government's expenditures were devoted to housing subsidies.
1.02        Until the adoption of the Economic Transformation Program (ETP) of
January 1990, housing used to be considered as a social good which the State
should provide to all citizens at only a notional cost. In fact, most
households received an administratively assigned dwelling for which they paid
only 3 to 6 percent of morithly incomes. As long as the consumption of housing
bore no relation to income, nor to production costs, demand outstripped the
delivery capacity of the state-controlled supply system. Housing became en
issue of national policy because of enduring shortages, exorbitant "greyw
market price., waiting lists of 10 to 15 years, low turnover rates and
misallocation of living space.
B. The Housina Stock
1.03        Poland's Housing Stock is currently estimated at nearly 11 million
dwellings, about 10 percent short of the number of households1. Four basic
types of investors have operated during the past 40 years: the state or
communes, the enterprises, the cooperatives, and the private sector. Only 46
percent of all units are privately owned, and most of those (2/3) are located
in rural areas (see Table 1). In the cltLe_, about forty percent of the
housing stock consists of rental units, which are subject to strict rent
control2.
1.04        Public Housina:  More than a fourth of urban housing is owned by
the State and managed by the Municipalities or ominas. Half of these units
consist of nationalized property which dates back to the pre-war era. Another
39 percent were built by public authorities between 1945 and 1970, while only
11 percent have been produced in the past tweni- years. To a large extent the
"age" of public housing reflects its physical conditions and relative
endowment with modern amenities such as a separate bathroom or central
heating. In general, the quality of public housing is poorly correlated to
the income of its occupants because considerations of relative economic
welfare did not influence housing allocation until 1965 and the criteria for
eligibility were often circumvented even after. Rents are still set
In 1988 thre we,e 1.12 households per occupied dwelling unit In Poland, as compared to 1.10 in
Czechoslovakia, 0.97 In Hunger, and BulgarIa, 0.93 In Romania and 0.91 In Yugoslavia.
2     Poland's population is about 60 percent urbanized. The country has a rather balanced urban structure
with ffie cities above 500,000 Inhabftants Waraw, Lodz, Krakow, Wroclaw and Poznan), and many
medium size cities. Admninistraively, Poland is dAvded in 2,5W municipalities (gminas) and 49 provinces
(vohodshfps).



- 2 -
administratively by central authorltie according to a national rate per m2 of
usable space which, despite perlodic adjustuents, consistently falls short of
the expenditures incurred in the operation and maintenance of the stock
(subsidies are estimated to cover 65 percent of such expenditures). Attempts
at divestiture of public housing were initiated as early as 1970, when units
were offered for sale to sitting tenants at prices well below current market
prices (often as low as one-twentieth). After some response during the first
two years, purchases declined rapidly only to pick up again towards the middle
of the 1980's when inflation accelerated. According to official estimates, no
more than 15 to 20 percent of the public housing stock (possibly the most
attractlve portion) was privatised during the last two decades.
Table ls OCCUPIED DWELLINGS BY TYPE OF INVESTOR AND LOCATION (1988 CENSUS)
(Thousand Dwelling Units)
Private   Cooperative    Enterprise      State/Munic      Total
Urban     1,670.1        2,586.6        830.2          1,953.0     7,039.8
Rural     3,007.5           19.4        525.3            124.7    3,676.9
Total     4,677.6        2,605.9      1,355.5          2,077.7    10,716.8
(Percentage By Investor)
Private   Cooperative    Enterprise      State/Munic       Total
Urban       23.7            36.7         11.8             27.77      100.0
Rural       81.8              .5         14.3              3.4       100.0
Total       43.6            24. 3        12.6             19.4       100.0
(Percentagi By Locatlion)
Private   Cooperative    Enterprise    State/Kuwic        Total
Urban       35.7            99.3         61.2             94.0        65.7
Rural       64.3              .7         38.8              6.0        34.3
=mum=    .    ........... =mr=m              =,mm=nw      =MM=
Total      100.0           100.0        100.0            100.0       100.0
NOTE: The cties concentrae 99 percent of cooperatve housing, 2 percent of State/Communal h3using and 61
percent of enterprse housing. Prvate d%%ilings are 64 percent rural. Cooperative, enteprise and cate
housing combined constitute 'scar housing.
1.05        Enterprise Housin :  This category of dwellings, built and
a"ifniltaeed by the otate enterprise. for their own employees accounts for
about 13 per-.nt of the existing housing stock. In the old system, the
proviston of housing in proximity of the workplace was considered an
obligation of the enterprisess a fringe benefit awarded to the worker to
complement generally low wages. Enterprise flats are subject to the uame rent



- 3 -
control regulations au communal flats, leaving the enterprises with a heavy
burden of operation and maintenance costs. This approach diverts resources
from one sector of investment to another and tends to tie labor to a given job
and reosidence over a lifetime. The occupants usually remain in the units
after thair employment contract has expired, and their rights of tenancy are
strongly protected.3 As many of the enterprises are now expected to be
privatized, their housing assets would become a natural target of divestiture.
A significant portion of enterprise housing (43 percent) was built over the
past two decades and is therefore of generally better quality compared to
communal housing. The purchase option (made available in 1970 also for this
type of accommodation), was taken up lese frequently than in the case of
public housing even though the buyers could got freehold property title and
could rent or sell the units at market prices.
1.06        Cooverative Housino:  Cooperative housing accounts for 37 percent
of al?. dwellings in the cities, where large estates of multi-story apartment
blocks have been provided by this kind of investors during the past
Occupants of cooperative flats can be either 'tenants' or 'owners', depending
on the type of contract and down payment they enter into,S cooperative
dwellings have benefitted from large subsidies through grants and preferential
interest rates. Unlike the holders of state flats, who pay minimal rents
only, couperative members have traditionally been charged for a small portion
of the capital costs and a fee to cover the operation and maintenance costs of
buildingn. While still very low compared to housing costs in a market
economy, the monthly charges on cooperative housing used to be somewhat higher
than those of public housing occupants.
1.07        Private Housina:  Most of the private stock (64%) is found in
rural or semi-rural setting and is made of farm-houses. Although less endowed
with modern amenities, rural housing tends to be roomier in size (the average
living space is of 70 m2 against 54 m2 for urban dwellings).  Private housing
in cities consists basically of multistory apartments, townhouses and
relatively faw single-family detached. No privately owned housing built after
Undil vety recently, a siatng tnant could not be evicted legally unless suftable alternate, socommodsWon
was provided. Now an eviction law has been Introduced but there is no exoerienoe yet of its enfoement
(Annex B).
In 19, the cooperatve waitng lists Included 874,000 members, of which two thirds had been enlisted for
7 years or more. In addition, housing cooperatives kept lists of 1,147,000 stand-by applicants. However,
70 poecent of those in the latter category were less than 18 years of age. A 1987 survey of cooperative
housing applicants In Warsaw, Gdansk and Wroclaw, showed that 37% of them were students, 85% were
livng with family and 50% were reasonably well housed (each having more than 7 m2 of living space).
Besides the waiting lists for cooperaive housing, there were in 1989 some 295,000 applicants for
enteofrlse housing and 110,000 for public housing.
5     A surge of loan pre-payments took place in 19 when many cooperatve tenas co se to become
owners, paying off the outstanding balance of their housing loans to aoid high interest payments. This
resulted in a checkered paftem of tenure within the same building block wlth tenants and owners often
bickering over their respecive obligatons. However, most cooperative housing units are now of the
'ownership Wmpe (poss.by 86 percent of tota).



the war in subject to rent-control or other restrictions to sale or to rent at
market prlc-e.
C.  Housina Supplv
1.08        Production Trends.  Housing production peaked at about 280,000
units in 1978, but contracted to 180,000 per year by the mid 1980's because
inflation and budgetary constraints required major cuts in public outlays
(private investment accounted for no more than 15 percent of new dwellings
over the decade). Construction output declined further in 1989 (to 150,000
units) and averaged 135,000 units)in 1990 and 1991. At the beginning of 1992
about 132,500 dwellings were under conetruction by the social sector. Most of
these were cooperative or enterprise housing ;the municipal participation
having become virtually negligible), which had been started under construction
contracts signed in 1990, 1989 and even earlier, while actual new starts in
1991 were only 50,500, In short, both the number of units completed and the
number of new starts in social housing have dropped dramatically compared to
previous years. In the private sector the decline of production has been less
dramatic. Some 40,000 units were completed during 1992 (30 percent below the
1985 level), while over 300,000 units were still under construction.
1.09        The Buildino Industry.  The construction of state and cooperative
housing used to be contracted directly to large, state-owned enterprises
(kombinats) generally established on a territorial basis.6 Kombinats are
huge, vertically integrated companies comprising a large number of activities,
from the design and production of standardized building elements, to their
transport and assemblage, the maintenance of the housing stock and community
facilities, as well as the operation of a variety of services. Uneconomic
company size and monopolistic control of either a product or a geographical
area have induced poor efficiency. The Kombinates construction costs per m2
are high by international standards and are reported to be 30 percent above
the costs of private firms. Since new loans to housing cooperatives have
beccme scarce, Kombinat activities have collapsed to less than 50 percent of
capacity with considerable lose of workers.7 Some former Kombinat workers
have started their own independent contracting. These new initiatives are
small in size but have been proliferating ever since the economic reform
program opened up access to short term credit and eliminated bureaucratic
control on the allocation of building materials.
1.10        The Ministry of Scatial Economy and Construction tMOSEC) was
created in 1987 through the merger of the Ministry of Construction with that
of Municipal Economy. It now employs about 300 people (220 professionals) in
a dozen departments. A staff at least as large works in five affiliated
The Ste cons&rucion enterprises a8wmd in I 1 989 ior 54% of dth housing output and for 81% of the
saw- igW employm.nt4 estmatd then at 1,731,000 workers. The prAte constructon firms Included
some 130,000 enterprises of very small size.
In two komblnats visited by the mission, employment has dropped from 5,000 to 1,000 workers durlng the
Iast few Yms.



research institutes6 and sevoral cmaller research unit. which are partly
funded through MOSC'"s budget. During the past two years, tho MLnistry has
been under reorganization but has drafted sevoral new bills which have been
submitted to the Parliament by the Council of Hinisters (para. 2.15, 2.16 and
Annex 8). As the government agency responuible for housing policy MOSEC makes
every year its recommendations to the Ministry of Finance concerning the size
and structure of the housing budget and the proposed lovel of subsidies for
each type of housing. However, only the subsidies destined to cooperatives
are carried in the budget of the Ministry, which determines the yearly amount
to be given each cooperative. Housing subventions for municipalities go
directly from the Ministry of Finance to the provincial authorities
(voivo2dhLos) as part of intergovernmental transfers.  MOSEC used to manage
also the Development Fund for Municipal Water and Sewerage Syatams and a
Development Fund for New Construction Technologies, which was based on a
special tax on building enterprises now abolished. In addition, the Ministry
is a main shareholder of the Housing Development Bank created in 1990 and act-
as the 'founding body' of some 300 enterprises for indastrial construction.
The equivalent role for hgu ing construction enterprises Li played instead by
the provincial authorities.
1  1        New Municlal Powers and Resoonsibilities:  The Local Self-
Government Act of M3arch 1990 has transferred the responsibilities of urban
development control knd public services provision to the newly established,
elective local governments. Assets previously controlled by the state,
including land, Lnfrastructure, public housing, utilities and service
enterprises, will be conveyed to the municipalities. Local authorities should
take charge directly of the spatial organization of urban development, the use
of land within their boundary and the -otection of the environment. The
interaction betwnen MOSEC and the gminas Is therefore changing from one of
direct intervention to one that is basically advisory and supervisory. The
Ministry remains responsible for establishing the legal parameters and general
policies for housing and land development but each municipality is now
empowered to revlie its own master plan and to spell out its own approach to
specific problem. and condLtions. Ominas differ in land availability,
infrastructure endowment, financial resources, quantity and quality of housing
stock, population growth and housing needs. Municipal housing strategies need
to take these circumstances into consideration when addressing the
interrelated problems of the land market, the financing of housing and
infrastructure, the construction industry, the administration's capabilities,
the current costs of housing and the income of resident households. While
most communitles lack sufficient budget revenues and investment capital to
extend the infrastructure and services network over new sites, or to
rehabilitate (and even to maintain) the housing estates transferred to them,
the budgetary support from the central government is expected to be further
reduced. As a result, the now municipal authorities need tn becomc more self
reliant &nd mncre efficat in their use of limited resources, developing
realistic action plans and investment strategies that place increasing
emphasis on private participation and cost recovery.
Te thme rWget rsearch Instt ae those of Urban Planring and Municipal Economy; Consuction
Techology and Geodey and Ctc ;p-hy.



-6-
D. The Fiscal Problem
1.12        The Subsidy Issues   Subsidies in support of housing are very
large. Part of theue subsidies are on the budget and can be easily
identified. They have accounted for some 2 to 3 percent of GDP and between 8
and 13 percent of total budget *xpenditures during the 1980. Presently, they
represent the single largest item of consumer subvention that is left on the
Government's budget and one that is clearly counterproductive to the country's
stabilization objectives. In addition, housing also bears substantial
subsidies that go unmeasured, the most important being the difference between
the rsnt actually paid by the household and the rent it would be charged if
the price mechanism were to clear the housing market. These subsidies are
regressive and mainly benefit urban dwellers of cooperative enterprise and
public housing irrespective of family income and size. Rural dwellers enjoy
very little housing subsidy if any.
1.13        Forms of Subsidy:   Subsidies to the sector have taken three
distinct forms (i) below-market rents for tenants of rent controlled housing;
(ii) low charges for utilities, especially for centrally supplied heat and hot
water; and (iii) grants and interest subsidies for cooperative flats (Table
2). Traditionally, these subsidies have been financed through an implicit
wage tax: workers are paid low wages and in turn they are entitled to low
cost housing. However, high inflation and interest rates in the past two
years have exposed the budget to uncontrollably rising subsidies on housing
loans (para 2.04). Housing finance has, therefore, become the focal point of
the Government's housing policy in the past year.
E. The Financial Problem
1.14        Past Housina Finances  Until 1988 housing finance was simple.  The
National Bank of Poland (NBP) provided investors with 43-year loans at 2
percent interest, financing those loas with transfers from the state budget.
After a three year grace period in which the interest during construction was
capitalized, loans were converted to a repayment basis over 40 years. With
the exception of a small portfolio of loans issued to individuals (less than 4
percent of the total), housing finance consisted mostly of loans made to
approxlmately 4,000 housing cooperatives. These tended to be large, with the
500 largest loans accounting for 85 percent of total credit.
1.15        The 1989-1990 Shock:  In 1989, the NBP transferred all cooperative
housing loan to PXO BP, the N&tional Savings Bank (para. 4.22), along with the
inflation-stricken passbooks of 2.5 million enlisted members of housing
cooperatives. PR0 was soon overwhelmed by the now burdens. Problems arose
with rapidly escalating construction costs, acute general inflation and the
sharp lncrease of interest rates, which became adjustable in January 1990.
These events had an immediate effect on the housing portfolio and forced the
Government to intervene because of the ensuing crisis of affordability. In
addition, most construction loans had to be renegcoiated for ever increasing
amounts because building costs were rising even faster than inflation.



- 7 -
Table 2t GOP HOUSING EXPENDITURES IN 1990 and 1991 BUDGETS
1990 executed            1991 latest revision
Main Categories          zloty    US$                 zloty     Us$
billion  million            billion  million
A. INVESTMENT RELATED EXP.    6,801       716      39.7     12,000  1.040   44.4
Pohibursement to PKO        2,500      263     14.6      3,500    304    13.0
for partial write-off
on loan pre-payments
Interest subsidies          2,000      211     11.7      7,300     635   27.0
Re-evaluation of              130       14        .8     1,200      104    4.4
personal housing
saving accountob
Capital grants to           2,171      228     12.8          -       -
Municipal Funds for
Land, Infrastructurec
B.  CURRENT EXPENDITURES    10,311    1,085       60.3    15,057  1,585    55.61
Maintenance & Repair        4,136      43      2-4-2     8.040    846      29-7
- public housing            4,083      430     23.9      7,435      783    27.5
- cooperative housing           53       5        .3       605       63     2.2
Heat/Hot water subsidies  5,67S        "I      33.1      5 917      623    218
- public housing              588       62      3.4        902       95     3.3
- cooperative housing       5,087      535     29.7      5,015      528    18.5
Housing Allowance Scheme      500       53      2.9       1100      116     4.1
for low income householded
A+B:  TOTAL EXPENDITURES        17,112   1,801   100.0      27,057   2,625  100.0
AS % OF GoVERNMENT BUDGET       8.4                           10 8
AS % OF GDP                     1.9                            3.0
Notes:
a.   Credit remissions or grants taling place when building works are completed and loan repyment begins.
The benefit is intended for 'nant' members but applies also 'owner' members that decide to py off the
outstanding loan balance. Wite oaf on pre-1988, 1988 and 19 contoats are of 5O%, 40% and 30%
|especely. They were eliminatd on contracts signed In 190 or later.
b.   Premium paid to re-establish the real value of deposits when housing accounts are cleard. The system
is based on the level of prices In tie construction Industry as announced by NOP (with about a year's
delay). Discontinued for contacts signed after December 31, 1990.
.   Transfers channeled through the Housing Fund and th Land Econorty Fund as well as through th
general rwenue-shaing scheme.
d.   Pead out to dte Muniiplities which must administer te housing allowance schemes.



- 8 -
1.16        Temorary Remedie-s   Tho st-ep rise in interest rates made
virtually all housing loans unaffordable. The Government responded by
assuming the payment of 32 percent of the interest due, while asking the banks
to capitalize 60 percent. Thus, the cooperatives, which are the borroweru of
these loans, had their payments reduced to only 8 percent of their dues, which
was relatively affordable to their individual members. However, since all
housing loans were granted a grace period of three years during the
construction period, a full 68 percent of interest due on these loans was
capitalized by the bank, while the remaining 32 percent was meant to be paid
to the bank from the budget. Given the fact that about 85 percent of PRO's
housing portfolio consisted of loans still under disbureement, most of the
cash payments the bank received during 1990 consisted in Government subsidies
on the Lnterest accrued on construction loans. With interest rates well into
the two-digit values, the large amounts of interest capitalized on housing
loans have strained PRO's ability to fund these loans and exposed the budget
to rapidly growing obligations vis a via PRO. In late 1991, the Government
reacted to this situation by passing a decree (Annex C-II) which substantially
modified the terms for all future housing loans. While this action was
essential to change the direction of housing finance in Poland, it cannot
contain the future fiscal pressures that stom from PRO's existing loan
portfolio. In early 1992 the Government has begun to confront this particular
issue (para 2.06).



Chapter II. THE GOP HOUSING STRATEGY AND WORLD BANK SUPPORT
A. The Challenge
2.01     Policy makers in Poland are aware of the fact that persistent housing
shortages, low production levels and high nominal interest rates may unleash
political pressures for continued subsidies. They are also aware that
uncontrolled and untargeted subsidies could derail the adjustment process in
various ways: they can accelerate inflation by breaking through fiscal and
credit ceilings; they can soak up domestic resources which are badly needed to
restructure the economy; they can hamper the mobility of labor by tying up
households to administratively assigned dwellings; and they can slow down new
construction activities if most of the subsidies go to existing dwellings.
Central Government expenditures for housing have risen from 1.9 % of GDP to an
estimated 3% between 1990 and 1991, mainly on account of the budgetary
implications of the existing housing loans. The immediate challenge faced by
the Government is, therefore, to find a non-inflationary way to restructure
the current housing finance scheme, which is not sustainable in its present
form. In a financial system that is still infant, it is important to do so
without inducing interest rate distortions, while at the same time providing
the housing sector with sufficient liquidity to resume a minimum level of
production.
B. The Anproach
2.02        The Economic Transformation Program adopted by the Government of
Poland in January 1990, implied the rejection of the traditional system of
housing production (centrally planned and supply driven) in favor of one that
should become largely private and market based. Therefore, the GOP has
developed a comprehensive strategy for the sector, parts of which have already
been approved by the Parliament while others are still under discussion. The
housing reform package, presented in greater detail in Annexes A and B, is
clearly inspired to market principles, limiting public assistance to the
safeguard of social equity. There are five major challenges that the
Government wants to address:
(a) reducing and redirecting housing subsidies;
(b) developing a sustainable system of housing finance;
(c) managing the public housing stock;
(d) redefining the role of supply agents; and
(e) revising the legal and institutional framework.
2.03        The Need for Policy Coordination:  Coordination of policy changes
in all these major areas will be crucial to achieving an efficient supply of
housing and the proper sequencing of reforms. Moreover, the Government
recognizes that the process of restructuring the sector will be linked to
reforms in other areas of the economy and will, therefore, be lengthy. In
particular, it is acknowledged that: (i) monetary and credit policies and
banking regulations will have a bearing on the mobilization and use of long-



- 10 -
term resources for housing and on the banks' incentives to compete for these
resources; (ii) mortgage banking skills must be developed to support
establishment of an efficient houuing finance system; (iii) property and
foreclosure rights must be redefined to grant security to the new mortgage
lenderas (iv) construction kombinats and cooperatives must be restructured to
favor growth of an entrepreneurial and competitive supply sector; and (v) the
cooperation of the central and local governments is needed to implement more
officient public rental policies.
C. Reducina Subsidies on New Housina Production
2.04        The Transition to a New Housing Finance System: The first major
steps have been to raise the interest rates on housing loans to positive real
levels and to move any remaining credit subsidies into the budget (para 1.16).
Next, the Government eliminated the payment of up-front grants for all
housing loans signed after January 1, 1990. Moreover, in March 1991 the
Government adopted a decree which changed the financing terms of these loans
in a fundamental way. The new terms require that payments be kept at about 25
percent of the householdls current income and that any portion of interest not
covered by the monthly payments be added to the outstanding loan balance. The
interest rate charged on housing loans continues to be a market rate as in
1990. The current system obliges the Government to fund 40 percent of the
interest capitalized on disbursina loans (during construction) and 100 percent
on renavina loans (after construction).  The Ministry of Spatial Economy and
Construction (MOSEC) has been asked to process the requests by the banks,
primarily PKO BP, and has been allocated a budget for this purpose. However,
the terms at which the Government funds part of the capitalized interest have
never been agreed between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Spatial
Economy and Construction, and the National Bank of Poland as stipulated in the
decree. This left on the budget an exponentially growing interest subsidy
which was of the order of 0.8% of GDP in 1991 and is estimated at more than 1%
of GDP for 1992.
2.05        Substitutina Interest Subsidies with Finance:  Realizing that the
wrong housing sector policies can pose a serious threat to fiscal and
financial stability, the Government has started to lay the foundation of a
sustainable, non-subsidized housing finance system. In September/October 1991,
it has changed the cooperative law to allow mortgages to be issued to
individual members rather than to the cooperative at large. It has also
adopted the principle of dual adjustments for all housing loans entered into
after October 1, 1991 (paras 4.06-4.08). These decisions imply that a clear
distinction will be made in the future between construction and mortgage loans
and that the borrower of a construction loan (e.g. a cooperative) can be
distinct from the borrower of the mortgage loan (i.e. the buyer of the house
or unit). More importantly, banks will now be required to include in the
assessment of their credit risk the borrowers' ability to pay, a principle not
hitherto applied to cooperative housing loans. The mortgage instrument
adopted by the Government requires a source of long term capital, such as the
one proposed under this project.



- 11 -
2.06        Problems with the Current Portfolio.  While recent decisions
concerning ne housing loans are consistent with market policies and represent
a definite break with the traditional housing finance system, they do not
solve the fiscal and financial problems arising from the large portfolio of
2ld housing loans which is being held by the National Savings Bank (PXO BP)
(paras 4.22-4.24). Most of these loans are unlikely to be fully repaid. In
early February the Parliament accepted the Government'sE drastic proposal to
cancel all housing loans on which construction has not been completed as of
March 31, 1992. The amendment was formally ratified by the President and is
expected to reduce housing subsidies by about 1.0% of GDP in 1991. The
Government might also consider discontinuing the practice of capitalizing
interest on PKO's outstanding housing loans which are not likely to be repaid
(about 75% of 3.5 million). Treasury bills could be issued for the amount of
provisioned loans as has been recommended by the auditors. To be expected,
public controversies are still raging to revoke such measures, but the current
government is determined to stay the course.
D.  Reducing and Redirecting Subsidies on the Existing Housing Stock
2.07        Eliminatina Rent Controls  The Government liberalized rents on
Private housing in 1991 and increased the rents on public housing more than
tenfold during the past 20 months in order to lower operation and maintenance
subsides and to make ownership of housing a more attractive alternative.
While rent increases have been considerably higher than domestic inflation,
they only caught up with the erosion of real rents which had occurred during
the late 1980s. Thus, the average household still pays about 3 percent of its
income for a flat of average size. The proposed housing bill (Annex B)
emphasizes the elimination of administrative control on rents over a two year
period and suggests that a housing allowance would be payable when rents rise
above 18 percent of household income. These are ambitious targets which may
be difficult to achieve during the short time envisaged because of economic,
social and political reasons. Balancing the social and economic issues of the
rent reform package has generated intense debates in Parliament. Raising
rents to market levels in publicly owned houses is likely to be a lengthy
process in an environment in which real incomes are stagnant or even
declining, housing conditions remain poor, and no housing allowance system has
yet been established. Several prerequisites should be put in place to make
rent increases politically more palatable and to generate an elastic supply
response to rising rents. These include: (i) a housing allowance scheme to
safeguard lower income groups and large families against the potential loss of
suitable housing; (ii) affordable mortgage instruments to encourage
homeownership and mobility; (iii) legal procedures for subletting and
exchanging flats, and (iv) fully enforceable property rights. The Government
has begun to work on these issues but has still to develop detailed action
programs and timetables to accomplish the overriding objective of reducing and
redirecting current subsidies.
E. Manaaina the Public Housina Stock
2.08        The Main Options:  The problem of managing the public housing
stock cannot be separated from housing ownership and rental policies. The
local authorities have an understandable concern in this respect because some



- 12 -
40 percent of urban housing is entrusted to their direct administration. The
manner in which this large patrimony will be handled can have deciuive
influence on the development of housing market. Policy options include: (i)
the radical privatization of the public stock; (il) the renovation of
obsolescent housing (whenever the costs can be recovered through sales,
leases, or rents); and (iii) the contracting to private agents of its
operation and maintenance (improving the efficiency and lowering the costs of
these services). The local governments have been charged with working out
their own strategy for these problems as part of the decentralization policy.
Nonetheless, the responsibility for setting rents and charges for maintaining
and operating the public stock still rests with the central authorities9.
Decentralization of these responsibilities has become an urgent concern.
Ultimately, the Central Government may want to withdraw from direct
involvement in social housing and limit its own assistance only to those
families whose incomes are insufficient to pay for an adequate dwelling.
2.09        Privatizinq the Manacement of the Public Stock:  One way to reduce
the maintenance burden of municipalities would be to encourage the break up of
the housing management enterprises which they now own into smaller private
companies or user associations. Little progress, however, has been
accomplished so far in this respect. The principal reason quoted is that the
level of current charges is so low that no private business could make a
profit by taking over extended management and maintenance contracts. The
current Government's Housing Bill (Annex B) recommends to raise rents to a
level that fully covers the cost of operation and repair within two short
years. As discussed above (para 2.07), the Government's schedule would
require the immedLate development of parallel schemes of assistance to low
income families, but the details of such housing allowance scheme have not
been worked out as yet. Nonetheless, possible delays in the deregulation of
rents should not deter the Government from starting to privatize the
management of some housing estates.
2.10        Privatizina the Public Housina Stock:   Successful privatization
of the public stock, one other point on the Government's agenda, will largely
depend on the efficiency with which rent reform and allowance schemes will be
introduced. Without reforming the rent and homeownership policies, the
divestiture of the public housing stock may not generate the expected
adjustments in the housing market. The recommendation to sell the public
stock to the current inhabitants may seem attractive from a fiscal point of
view because it would generate revenues and eliminate the heavy burden of
maintenance. However, given the poor physical conditions of the premises they
occupy, few tenant households would consider purchase unless the prices were
heavily discounted or the financing terms made quite soft. Furthermore, even
in the case of a virtual give-away, the owners of the dwellings may not be
able to carry the corresponding maintenance and renovation costs.
This is an Inevitable legacy of the subsidy policy. as long as the Slate is expected to contibute
substantally to 0 & M expenditures, the State has the right to set the minimum contibutions It epects
from the beneficiaries and the local govemments towards such expenditures.



- 13 -
F. Redefining the Role of Supolv Aaents
2.11        PrLvatizina the Building Industry implils major changes in the way
housing is being supplied today. Construction kombinat- will need to give way
to a more diversified and competitive supply structure including smaller and
specialized construction companies, developers, and home-builders'
associations. Ultimately, the role of the public sector should be relegated
to regulatory functions concerning land use, building standards, property
rights, contracting practices and provision of infrastructure.
2.12        Private construction firms, architectural offices and joint
ventures with foreign construction companies are already emerging, but the old
supply structure continues to operate, albeit at sharply reduced volume. The
cost advantage of private contractors rests mainly in the use of traditional,
labor intensive materials, such as brick and mortar, as opposed to the poor
quality, prefabricated, capital intensive components of the public
enterprises. Other advantages are the lower overhead and greater adaptability
of the new enterprises. Should construction and mortgage finance become
available, the new contracting firms could grow rapidly and absorb part of the
labor released by dismantling the old kombinats. Price competition can help
induce the privatization and restructuring of some kombinats into smaller and
more efficient enterprises. However, this will require increasing emphasis on
competitive tendering for the award of construction contracts.
2.13        Restructurina the Housina Cooperatives may prove more difficult.
Cooperatives have been traditionally (and will likely continue to be) a
principal housing investor. They have undergone major changes during the past
40 years. The original, self-governing bodies had been grouped into a
hierarchy of regional and central unions whose activities had become heavily
influenced by the State. In January 1990, the Cooperative Law was revised
returning to the three basic principles of self-management, independence and
self-financing. Other positive changes include: abolishment of the regional
and central unions; provisions for breaking up a large cooperative into
several smaller ones; and reinstatement of free elections in all primary
cooperatives. Moreover, a new cooperative law is now under consideration
which will provide guidance for the operation of new or restructured
cooperatives (para. 2.16). Approval of this new law is urgent for several
reasons: (i) cooperatives have been allocated valuable land sites which
remain underdeveloped for lack of investment fundsl (ii) most cooperatives
have long waiting lists of paid-up members whose acquired rights and
obligations need clarification; and (iii) as non-profit organizations the
cooperatives could be well placed to provide affordable housing for lower and
middle income families, while private developers are more likely to cater
predominantly to higher income groups.
G. Revisina the Leaal and Institutional Framework
2.14        Decentralizing Land Develotment Control:  The Local Self
Government Act of March 1990 has assigned to the local governments the
responsibilities for the control of urban development and for the
construction, operation and maintenance of public utilities, housing and other
local services. In addition, the Land Management and Real Estate



- 14 -
Expropriation Act of December 1990 defines the role of local authorities in
land use planning. A separate, but na lose important aspect of the
anticipated legal reforms concerns the no fiscal/financial arrangements in
intergovernmental transfers, which are heavily dependent upon the general
overhaul of the tax system which Poland will begin next year. These changes
are only at an early stage of development and their ultimate impact on the
powers and autonomy of local governments are not yet transparent1o.
2.15        Pending Lgaislation:  Implementation of the Government'e housing
strategy require the routing of several recent innovations in the legal
system. The main issues are the equal protection of ownership rights, the
definition of public purpose as a basis of expropriation and clear foreclosure
rules to support a viable system of construction and mortgage finance. In
view of the fact that most real property transactions are ruled again by Civil
Law, there is also a need to strengthen the Judiciary and to provide for
procedures of appeal and independent review. The large scale transfer of
State property to the local authorities requires development of Notarial
Offices and of Land and Mortgage Registries. In addition, a new Banking Law
and a new Law of Collateral Security are under consideration. The current
draft of the latter intends to extend security interest to all types of
property including real estate. New accounting and auditing standards
consistent with international practice were introduced in May 1991.
2.16        Five Critical Bills:  Recently, the Council of Ministers has
submitted five important bills for ratification by the Parliament: (i) the
Housino Act which will complement the revised Civil Code on a variety of
provisions concerning rental contracts and includes the highly controversial
two-year scheme to de-control rents in communal housing (now in its eighth
draft); (ii) the Anti-Crisis Act which addresses the most urgent issues facing
local government in the areas of land-use planning, investment permits and
provision of serviced residential land (approved); (iii) the Limited Real
Riahts Act which introduces new forms of credit collateral for cooperative
flats, amends the Civil Code accordingly, permits individual mortgages to be
issed to the future owners of cooperative flats, and enables the recovery and
transfer of mortgaged debt (approved); (iv) the Eviction Act which abrogated
the entitlement of a delinquent mortgage-holder to a replacement dwelling in
case of foreclosure (approved); and (v) the Procurement Act which institutes
rules and procedures for competitive procurement of goods and services in
investment projects bearing a contribution of the central or local governments
(in preparation).   A more detailed account of the status of progress of these
legislative initiatives is supplied in Annex B.
to    A sepaat sector study on intrrgoemmentea agements has bon just caled out. See Poland:
Deentralizalon and Reform of the State Green Cover Report No. 10446-POL Infrastructure Operaons,
Central Europe Departbnent April 27, 1992



- 15 -
. Summing Up
2.17        Seauencing Reforma:  The adoption of an aggressive policy of rent
de-control would call for simultaneous real wage increases, which may be
inappropriate in the current circumstances of the economy. On the other hand,
high social risks are involved in sharply increasing rent. in an environment
of declining real wages, because a large proportion of the population may be
unable to meet the required payments and no housing allowance system iu yet in
place to complement the contributions that poor households can afford to make.
Therefore, the Polish Government emphasis on developing a market for future
homeowners suggests that the introduction of housing finance will tako
precedence over the more gradual changes in rental policies.
2.18        Removing Sectoral Constraints:  On the supoly side there is a need
to improve construction management, cost estimates, cost control and
procurement practices.  One must allow also for free options in the technology
of construction (including the revival of traditional building methods) and
for a diversity of housing types and design solutions. It is also important
to revise the current, over-restrictive practices of land allocation,
development control, licensing, building standards and zoning regulations all
of which are matters that come increasingly under the discretion of local
governments.  In addition, local authorities must earmark sufficient sites for
residential development where the needed services and infrastructure are
available or can be provided at a reasonable cost. Excessive rationing of
urban land, high building standards and similar requirements raise investment
and transaction costs unnecessarily, discourage private developers and
increase pressure for budgetary subsidies.  on the demand side there is a need
to increase the affordability of long-term housing finance and to encourage
investment in rental housing and home ownership. Thare is also a need to make
people realize that the consumption of housing services is not unlike that of
other private goods: it is exclusive and rival, and should be charged directly
to the consumers so that the quality and quantity of housing services they
purchase would be determined by the level of payments they are willing to
make. Important steps in this direction have been the decisions to charge the
real cost of money on housing loans and to increase the share of household
income devoted to the payment of rents or mortgages (March 1991).
2.19        The Government Role in Strateav Implementation:   The Government
has carved out its own role during the transition period in the following
areas: (i) continuously monitoring the housing markets; (ii) revising
property rights, physical planning laws and building regulations; (iii)
encouraging competitive participation of a variety of housing suppliers; (iv)
privatizing and restructuring construction komoinats and facilitating entry of
new private firms into the sector; (v) servicing land for housing development;
(vi) promoting housing allowance schemes for low income households; and (vii)
developing an efficient housing finance system, based on sound banking
regulations and well separated from targeted budget subsidies. (Policy Letter
of March 2, 1992).
2.20        World Bank Assistance:  The Bank's assistance strategy in Poland
has focussed on the implementation of the government's Economic Transformation
Program which is being explicitly supported by the SAL. The core of the



- 16 -
strategy is the successful implementation of the Polish multi-track
privatization program, the development of a modern and efficient financial
sector, and the implementatlon of an effective social safety net.
2.21        The approach to the housing sector follows this strategy by
creating the basic conditions to develop private construction enterprises, to
attract private resources into housing lnvestments and to strengthen the
mechanisms of financial ietermediation. Bank staff has collaborated with the
GOP in working out the general strategy of housing reforms that has been
outlined above. It is recognized that such strategy is just beginning to take
shape and that its implementation will require a long period of sustained Bank
assistance, both in form of policy advice and in form of subsequent lending
operatLons. It is now proposed to fund a First Housing Project that would
provide iprate investors with resources for construction and mortgage loans,
while addressing those institutional and regulatory problems which still
hamper their participation. Moreover, the Project would reduce the sector's
demand on scarce public funds by fostering the growth of a stable source of
long term finance. However, more needs to be done to fully reform the housing
sectors public housing subsidies need to decline and any remaining subsidies
need to be better targeted to needy households. Dialogue on those issues will
be pursued during project implementation with central and local authorities in
form of technical assistance and special studies.



- 17 -
Chapter IIIs THE PROJECT
A. In&rod&ction
3.01        Backaround.  In the spring of 1990, the Government of Poland
expressed interest in receivlng Bank assistance in reforming the housing
sector an part of its ongoing Economic Transformation Program (ETP). During
discussions between the Prime Minister and the Vice President of the Bank it
was decided to create for this purpose a Joint Task Force which, established
in April 1990, concluded its activities six months later. The Project
Preparation Team started its work at about the same time, focussing on the
operational aspects of a first housing loan. The present report condenses the
overlapping experiences of the two groups.
3.02        Coordination. The proposed project underscores the importance of
a functioning housing finance system in a market based economy. To ensure
consistency between this operation and other Bank activities, close
coordination was maintained with the Bank teams working o reforms of the
financial sector and the commercial banking system. The proposed project took
into account the policy framework established under the Structural Adjustment
Loan of July 1990 (3247-POL) and the Financial Institutions Development Loan
(5535-POL). Project preparation benefitted also from discussions with IMF
staff on the acceptability of dual index mortgages.
3.03        A Housina Finance Proiect office 1HFPOI was established in
November 1990 to prepare the Project under the authority of the Economic
Committee of the Council of Ministers (KERM). The Office gathered a group of
Polish and expatriate experts with experience in housing policy and design,
urban planning, economic and financial analysis, banking, law, and training.
In November 1991, the Office became attached to the Ministry of Spatial
Economy and Construction which was designated as the executing agency of the
Bank loan. Bank staff has been working closely with the HFPO on all aspects
of project preparation.
3.04        Policy Contributions.  The HFPO has been advising the Government
on how to move towards a market-based housing system. A major achievement was
the change in housing finance terms which the Government adopted in two
stages, first with the decree of March 25, 1991 (Annex C) and then with the
subsequent decree of October 1, 1991 (Annex D). The new terms link mortgage
payments to both the current income of households and the market rate of
interest (paras 4.05, 4.06 below). More recently, the HFPO has also advised
the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction in drafting the Government's
Housing Policy Statement which has been discussed in the Polish Parliament
(Annex A). Bank staff has reviewed the current version of the document and
agrees that it includes necessary elements for a market-based housing system.
3.05        Missions.  Project Preparation missions took place in October 1990
and January 1991 and the appraisal mission in May 1991. Negotiations took
place in Washington from April 13 to April 17 1992. The Polish Delegation was
led by Mr. Andrzej Diakonow, Secretary of State, MOSEC. Mr. Jerzy Zrdlalka,
Secretary of State, MOFIN, acted as Chief Negotiator.



- 18 -
B.   Proiect Obiectivee and DescriDtion
3.06        The Main Purpose of the Prolect is to support the GOP's efforts to
develop a housing system based on private supply and market finance. The
project's approach represents a major break with past policies, aiming at the
following objectives:
(a)   to oncourace orivate supply and demand for houuina b:v
(i)   developing a source of unsubsidized, long term housing
finance;
(ii)  stimulating initiatives of private developers and
contractors;
(iii) encouraging changes to laws on home tenure, purchase and
rentall
(b)   to strenathen housing finance institutions by:
(i)   introducing a mortgage instrument which can preserve cost
recovery and affordability under unstable economic
circumstances;
(ii)  creating a fund to help banks issue mortgages in an
environment of high inflation;
(iii) developing the institutional capacity to appraise proposed
housing investments through training and technical
assistance; and
(iv)  promoting new administrative, financial and accounting
practices;
(c)   to adiust housino production to Consumer needs and preferences by:
(i)   assisting private and public agents in all aspects of
housing development;
(ii)  providing advice on construction management and cost
efficient technologies; and
(iii) introducing programs to upgrade dilapidated housing and re-
allocate rehabilitated dwellings to potential users.
3.07        Proiect Profile.  The project consists of two lines of credit to
the Mortgage Fund to be established in the Housing Development Bank (BUDBANK)
by the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction and a large Technical
Assistance program to develop mortgage financing and to support private
initiative in housing construction. BUDBANK would be the main financial
intermediary while commercial and savings banks, developers, cooperatives and
private contractors would be the implementing agents. The Ministry of Spatial
Economy and Construction will be the executing agency on behalf of the
Government, and counterpart funds would be appropriated within its yearly
budgets (para. 6.01 i). Local governments would also play a critical role as
facilitators of private sector activities and suppliers of building sites and
infrastructure. The Technical Assistance component would be financed through
a substantial grant from the government of the United States, and
contributions from the UNDP and other official sources. Technical assistance



- 19 -
should help build a firmer institutional base and the financial expertise
required to address the needs of housing sector development.  It would be
provided at the local and central levels of government, to the HFPO, the
Mortgage Fund and the sub-borrowing banks in order to develop suitable
operating capacities and institutions to assist private initiatives.
3.08           J2gJJco2,p2.  A US200 million Bank loan is proposed to
partially finance subloans that the Mortgage Fund would make to the
participating banks underwriting mortgages. Proceeds of the proposed loan
would be available to participating banks also for financing housing
construction in order to jump-start this activity which slowed down sharply as
a result of Poland's recession and economic restructuring (paras. 1.08 and
1.15) It is anticipated that demand of IBRD fundr for construction would
diminish oncs a new building cycle is underway and banks become familiar with
the policies and operations of the Mortgage Fund.
3.09        Sub-Projects Pi2eline.  The size of the proposed loan has been
estimated on the basis of projected activities and the expected commitment of
loan proceeds during a three year perlod (1992 to 1994). An initial pipeline
of about 50 representative sub-projects has been preliminarily identified in
two dozen cities throughout the country amounting to a prospective investment
of over US $200 million (Annex J). These sub-projects represent a sample of
divarsified sub-borrowers, demand and constitute the basis for the project
appraisal. They include construction of new single- or multi-family
buildings, densification of underdeveloped urban sites, improvement of vacant
lots interspersed in the urban fabric, re-development of existing downtown
blocks, and upgrading/remodelling of communal flats for sale. The investment
program for the first year of operation has been reviewed by the Bank prior to
negotiations. Subsequently, the proposed investment programs would be
presented to the Bank each year by the Borrower in cne course of joint program
reviews (para 6.01 ii). However, definitive appraisal of credit applications
would remain the responsibility of the participating banks albeit under the
supervision of the Mortgage Fund and the HFPO.
C.   Pr4niect Comoonents
3.10        Mortaaae Loans.  At least half of the Bank loan (US$100 million),
and an equivalent counterpart contribution would be onlent to banks issuing
dual index mortgages to individual households (para 6.01 iii). Access to such
long-term funds is essential to induce banks to engage in construction and
mortgage lending under the current economic conditions. The Mortgage Fund is
expected to support the financing of about 27,000 mortgages, during the
disbursement period of the Bank loan.
3.11        Construction Finance.  The other half of the Bank loan (up to
USS 100 million) would help finance housing construction loans through a.
special window of the Mortgage Fur.d. It is expected that these construction
loans would be converted into mortgages upon the sale of the unit. Based on
current costs, one can expect this component would support construction
contracts for about 15,000 dwellings unite.



- 20 -
3.12        Technical Asistancets  Grant funds are expected from a variety of
sources to finance consultants, studies, training and office equipment in
order tos (i) help develop new policies, instruments and institutions for the
individual borrowers; (ii) train banking staff in new practices and
procedures; (iii) train municipal staff in housing related matters; and (iv)
train private developers in project evaluation, market analysis and estimates
of construction costs. Forms and recipients of Technical Assistance are
specified below (para. 3.25).
D. Criteria of Sub-Project Eligibilitv
3.13        Eliaibility Cgiteria for Construction Subloans.  Construction
works financed under the Project would be subject to the following eligibility
criteria (para 6.01 iv):
(a)   construction loans would be made only for sub-projects conducive
to individual mortgages being issued to the households, and shall
not be made to public enterprises which have no prior experience
in construction;
(b) at least sixty percent of the units in each construction project
should be pre-sold to identified, eligible buyers;
(c)   all construction loans financed under the project should be
committed within 3 years of the date of loan effectiveness;
(d)   construction loans should not exceed 75 percent of the estimated
total construction valua;
(e)   the size of each construction loan should not exceed 100 dwelling
units;
(f)   the expected construction schedule of subprojects should not
exceed 18 months;
(g)   all units financed should be built with valid building permits and
comply with the building requirements of the local authority;
(h)   adequate sanitation, water supply and energy conservation
standards should be adopted and access to public services and
community facilities ensured;
(i)   the award of construction contracts should be based on competitive
bidding procedures, satisfactory to the Bank
3.14        Bligibilit  Criteria for Mortaage Subloans.  Whether or not
already financed through the Project's construction loans, all subprojects for
which mortgage financing is sought should meet the following criteria (para.
6.01 v):
(a)   mortgages would be issued under the Project only for individual
and qualifying borrowers;
(b)   prospective buyers would need to demonstrate a capacity to pay;
the size of individual loans should not wxceed 36 times the
monthly income of the borrowing household; and the maximum
payment expected would be 25 percent of the household's income;



- 21 -
(c)   dwelling units financed should not exceed 100 M2 of net usable
floor area for one apartment in a multi-family building and 150 M2
for a single-family, semi-det-.ched building;
(d) to avoid double financing of construction and mortgage loans by
the Mortgage Fund, any amount advanced in form of a construction
loan would be deducted from the mortgage loan; and
(e) the dwellings financed with resources from the Mortgage Fund would
meet the criteria specified in points (g) and (h) in para. 3.13
above.
E.  Project Cost and Financing
3.15        Total Proiect Costs are shown in Table 3 and have been estimated
at US$677 million equivalent.  The direct and indirect foreign exchange costs,
estimated to be slightly over 30 percent, would be financed from foreign
sources. These includes a grant-funded Technical Assistance program of US$10
million of which about half has been already appropriated by the corresponding
agencies.
3.16        Co-financing:  The European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD) has just negotiated with the GOP a loan of ECU 50 million*
(US$67 million equivalent) which would be disbursed against construction
subprojects financed under the World Bank loan, partially substituting for
counterpart financing. Supervision of these subprojects would be carried out
jointly by staff of the two banks.
3.17        Parallel USAID Financing:  The US government has authorized a
program for US$25 million housing guarantees to be issued by US banks under
Federal Government guarantee. This would also be administered by BUDBANK
under a separate account. Subprojects would comply with the same terms and
conditions as in the World Bank project. USAID has also signed an agreement
to finance the principal share of the technical assistance needs of both
projects.
3.18        Construction Financing.  Construction sub-projects would be
financed 75 percent with medium term loans (3 year maximum) and 25 percent
with investors' funds. The proposed IBRD participation would cover all the
foreign exchange requirements, while local costs would be met by the
Government, the domestic banks and the investors. The agreed financing plan
for this component is shown on Table 4 on page 23.
*At negoations (which took pace aftr completon of our documonts), th EBRO Iwn was aised to ECU 54 million
(US$6 million equivalen). In addition, th EBRD Cooporaton Fund will grn ECU 1.8 million (US $2.3 million
equvalen for chnicalasan  to the pwtclpang bank.



- 22 -
3.19        Construction Cost Estimates shown in Table 3 were based on the
experience of private construction companies and consulting firms monitoring
the construction sector in Poland (Annex K). 1 To minimize distorttons from
fluctuating inflation and exchange rates all estimates are presented in USS.
Local costs were converted into Dollars at the official exchange rate which
prevailed at the end of May 1991 (21 11,000 - US$ 1.00). Physical
contingencies were set at 10 percent of the base case estimate for the
construction component only. The corresponding price contingencies have been
calculated on the US$ base costs assuming the following rates of international
inflation ratest 1991: 5, 1992: 1.8%, 1993: 1.9%, 1994: 3.9%, 1995 4.9%,
1996: 4.2%.
Table 3: PROJECT COSTS
-----------------US$ million------------
--------------------------------------------------------__-----------------___
Local            Foreion            Total
Construction Component                   164                70               234
Mortgage Component                       227                97               324
Technical Assistance Component            -                 10                10
Design,Supervision,
Administration Costs                     19                 9                28
Base cost (May 1991 prices)            410               186               596
Physical Contingencies                    17                 7                24
Price Contingencies                       13                 6                19
Total construction cost                440               199               639
Interest during Constr. (IDC)             27                11                38
Total Financing Required               467               210               677
MOSEC produces periodic estimates of housing 'construction costs which are adopted by NBP to
establish unit cost cellings for housing loans. In March 1990 the unit cost was set at Zl. 1.5 million per
square meter of net usable floor area. Since then, the ceiling has been revised several tmes upwards
and reached Zl. 4.0 million In the last quarter of 1991. However, this Index often conJuses the construcon
gs (materIals, labor, use of equlpment, possibly Interest during construction and contractor's overhead
and profi with sale prlces of no usable area. The latter should prorate the cost of land, Infrastructure
and other administratve and marketing costs. The mission estimates at appraisal time assumed US $287
x m2 for construction costs and US $416 x m2 for sale price on January 1, 1992 (Annex 19. Only the latter
estimate corresponds roughly to MOSEC's latest value, when expressed In dollars according to the
corresponding rate of exchange.



- 23 -
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN FOR CONSTRUCTION COMPONENT
(USS  million}                 % of
Local            Foreign          Total    Total
----------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Investor/Developer             83                                83       25
Medium Term Loans
GOP                         33                -               33       10
IBRD                         -               100             100       30
EBRD                        67                -               67       20
Participating Banks         50                -               50       15
Total construction             233              100             333      100
==m,              W=             ==mm    = , ...  ...m
3.20        Mortaace Financino:  This component of the Project would finance
80 percent of the mortgages issued by the participating banks which would
finance the remaining 20 percent using internal funds. The mortgage would
cover up to 75 percent of the sale price of the unit12; the buyer will
contribute the remaining 25 percent as down payment. The agreed financing
plan for the mortgage component is shown in Table 5.
Table 5: FINANCING PLAN FOR MORTGAGE COMPONENT
(USS million)                   % of
Local            Foreign          Total    Total
------------------------------------------------------------
Down payment                   84                                84       25
Long Term Loans
GOP                        100                -              100       30
IBRD                                         100             100       30
Participating Banks         50                -               50       15
Total Mortgages               234               100             334      100
=mm           nu~mm           mm.      mm.
3.21        Consolidated Financial Plan.   All construction loan. are expected
to be repaid when due, most of them through term conversion into mortgages.
Thus, the construction and mortgage components of the Project can be
consolidated into a single financing plan, as shown in Table 6.
12   The value of mottgages is set below the total sale value of the unit which, besides consftction coss,
Includes those of the land and other pro-rated costs such as mwketing expenses and other overhead
charges of the developer which could not be reimbursed wtth Bank funds. However the low percentage
of cost sharng by the Bank in this loan (30 percent rles out that proceeds of the foreign exchange loan
might cover any of the above items. Similar consideratons appty to the construction credit component
where land Is generally part of the Investor's 25% contribution towards total Investment costs.



- 24 -
Table 6s CONSOLIDATED FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)                             % of
Local          Foreign          Total            Total
Investors               167              -               167               25
Long Term Loans
GOP                  133              -                133              20
IBRD                  -              200              200               30
EBRD                 67               -                 67              10
Participating Banks  100                              100               15
467             200              66710
Various TA grants        -               10                10               1
Total               467             210              677              101
IW..IN   ....              ..
F. Environmental Inmact
3 22         No adverse environmental impact is expected from the proposed
project which would offer valuable opportunities to enhance environmental
benefits. Care would be taken during the appraisal of each sub-project to
ensure that adequate sanitation, water supply and energy conservation
standards be adopted, and that development sites afford adequate access to
public services and community facilities to the future inhabitants (para 6.01
iv). Urban upgrading projects in areas of historical or cultural significance
should clearly support conservation values. The proposed project has been
reviewed and placed in environmental screening category "C" consistent with
the provisions of Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A, "Environmental
Assessment".
0. Proiect Implementation
3.23        Institutions:  The Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction
will have overall rosponsibility for project implementation. The proceeds of
the Bank loan and the Government counterpart funds will be channeled through
BUDBANK's Mortgage Fund which will onlend to participating banks. The
Mortgage Fund will be created under the Project (paras 4.09-4.20, and Annex D-
I).
3.24        Operational Manual:   A draft operational manual has been prepared
by the Borrower with the assistance of Consultants. This Nanual has been
reviewed and agreed by the Bank. The document details the institutional
arrangements and the policies and procedures to be followed in the
implementation of the project, setting out official guidelines for investors,
developers, participating banks and the Mortgage Fund. The outline of the 53
pages Manual is presented in Annex 3 to this report. It is divided in four
main sections:



25 -
1. Overview of the Proiect (objectives, policies, institutional
arrangements and credit programs).
2. Flow of Funds, (credit terms and responsibilities of local banks);
3. Construction Credit Program, (requirements for borrowing and repaying
construction credits); and
4.  Mortaaae Credit Program, (requirements for borrowing and repaying
mortgage credits). The main text of the Manual is accompanied by
several annexes including sample contract forms, credit application
forms and other guidelines which are intended to assist the borrowers
and the lenders under the project. Formal adoption of the Operational
Manual would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02 ii).
3.25        Technical Assistance: Technical assistance would be provided to:
(i) the Housina Finance Proiect Offices The HFPO is currently involved
in the analysis of housing issues and in the formulation of new policies.
During project implementation its capabilities will need to be supported in
the following areas: the mobilization of private resources for housing; the
monitoring of recent initiatives (e.g. the introduction of indexed mortgages);
the legal and regulatory implications of applying the new mortgage
instruments; the agenda for further reforms in housing finance. It must be
noted that this subcomponent of the project is well underway, thanks to the
prompt assistance granted by the UNDP and by the U.S. and Japanese Governments
for the preparation of this project.
(ii) the Ministrv of Spatial Economy and Construction: The Ministry
will need assistance in promoting changes in the regulatory framework for land
and housing development and in guiding local authorities in the revision of
norms and standards concerning site selection, land acquisition, land use,
development permits, design, tendering and contracting civil works,
supervision of construction, marketing of new units and re-allocation of
existing ones. In addition, the Ministry is in the process of changing the
laws governing rental and management of the public housing stock.
(iii) the Mortoace Fund: The newly created Mortgage Fund will need
assistance in several areas: (a) credit control including loan
administration, accounting and auditing, reporting, control, and servicing
systems; (b) credit appraisal and risk management including loan origination,
processing and settlement policies, risk management and quality control; and
(c) design and management of information systems, including evaluation of the
extent to which existing systems are suited to the demands of the new mortgage
lending instrument; design of new or enhanced systems for reporting and
control, construction scheduling, management of default, loan origination and
servicing.  Since mortgage banking will be a new business in Poland and little
expertise is available in this field, the appointed manager of the Mortgage
Fund will be supported by a senior, experienced mortgage banker and four
additional experts who will help develop a viable loan portfolio and
information systems to forecast and monitor the Fund's activities (Annex L).



- 26 -
(iv) the Particiloatinqf Banks: The Mortgage Fund will provide
assistance in loan origination, borrower approval, loan proceseing, loan
servicing, risk and default management through detailed guidelines and loan
approval procedures. In addition training will be provided to all
participating banks through specialized short-term courses. Finally,
specialized technical assistance will be given to banks with particular needs.
The National Savings Bank (PRO BP) which holds to date about 80 percent of the
country's housing loans and almost half of all private-savings deposits is
expected to play a major role as sub-borrower in the project along with the
nine commercial banks. To this end PRO will need training and advice in three
key areas: (a) credit control; (b) credit management; and (c) design and
management of information systems. The need for such assistance has been
established by the recently comoleted diaanostic study of PKO which included
an audit, a portfolio review and a management assessment. The Government is
now in the process of developing an action program to restructure the
institution, which may call for tailored assistance. Should PRO requirements
exceed the scope of the Housing Project, complementary assistance can be
obtained as part of the Financial Institutions Loan.17
(v) Local Authorities: The current policy of decentralization calls
for development of institutional and managerial capabilities at the sub-
national level. New procedures for lending, resource mobilization, and
project appraisal ought to be disseminated throughout the country.  Municipal
staff and local developers would be trained ins  (a) the management of the
public housing stock; (b) the management of urban services; (c) the revision
of municipal regulations in regard to town planning, land development and
construction permits; and (d) the preparation of housing projects and credit
applications. Substantial activities have been initiated already under this
component with the sponsorship of USAID and UNDP.  Resident experts are at
work in various municipalities and a series of training seminars have taken
place.
H. Procurement
3.26        Mortaace Loans:  Although mortgage contracts finance civil works
and goods, they do so only indirectly and retroactively. Therefore, the
transactions covered by this component would not be technically suitable for
competitive bidding according with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
3.27        Construction Loanes   The construction component, however, would
partially finance civil works and purchases of goods and services. New laws
and regulations regarding local procurement procedures and practices are
presently being drafted (para. 2.16 v and Annex B) and will be reviewed by the
World Bank in order to reach a judgement whether the local procedure. are
acceptable for World Bank financed contracts. The findings of that review
will be discussed with the Polish authorities and agreement will be sought to
make the procedures acceptable to the Bank. Meanwhile, assurance should be
sought at negotiations that, for civil works contracts of greater value than
Is * The Financial Instiutons Loan (P-5635-POL) Includes resources which could be used in a technical
assistance or a twinning program for PKO BP.



- 27 -
US$1.0 million equivalent, the technlcal staff employed by the participating
banks would supervise the application of locally advertised competitive
bidding (LCB) acceptable to the Bank (para. 6.01 vli). This implies that: (i)
a bidding document will be iseued; (ii) adequate competition would be
encouraged to obtain reasonable prices; (iii) the procedures to be followed in
bid evaluation and contract award would be made known in advance to all
bidders; (iv) such procedures would not be arbitrarily applied; and (v)
foreign firms would be allowed to participate if interested to do so.
Moreover, the first three procurement documents in this category (including
bid invitations, evaluation report and contracts) will be reviewed by the Bank
to ascertain that acceptable procedures are being used. For civil works and
purchases of lesser or equivalent value to US$1.0 million, procurement by
comparative price quotations (local shopping) would be acceptable to the Bank,
provided that at least three separate quotations are obtained and that the
contracts be awarded to the lowest evaluated price. The participating banks
would retain the relevant documentation for review by supervision missions.
3.28        Force Account procurement of civil works by public investors would
be justified only in those cases in which works are small and scattered or
remote in location so that mobilization costs would deter contractors from
tendering for their execution. The total aggregate amount for thie type of
contract is not expected to exceed US$33 million equivalent or 10% of total
construction financing (5% of total project cost).
Table 7: PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
IUSS millionsi
Project Component                Procurement Method
Total
_CB        LCB       Other         NA            Cost
Mortgage Loans         -         -          -           334            334
(100)          (100)
Construction Loans    -          250         83                        333
(75)       (25)                      (100)
Technical Aseistance  -          -           10          10             10
(-)                        (-)
Total            -          250         93          334            677
_         (75)        (25)       (100)           (200)
Note:  Figure in parenthesis show amounts financed by the Bank.
3.29        Single Family Houses:   A certain share of project expenditures
(up to US$50 million equivalent or 15% of total construction financing) would
finance construction works carried out directly by individual borrowers.
These individual loans would be converted into paying mortgages at the end of
the construction period. Borrowers may execute works themselves or purchase
materials and services by shopping locally for the lowest price. This



- 28 -
fragmented pattern of transactions precludes packaging or wholesale purchase
of materials and services and is also considered unsuitable for formal
tendering procedures.
3.30        Technical Assistance:   The technical assistance component would
be financed through multilateral and bilateral grants. Consultants would be
contracted either as individuals or as firms in accordance with the practices
of the sponsoring agency - or the World Bank guidelines (in the case of the
Japanese Grant Facility). Terms of Reference drafted by the donor agencies
would have to be approved by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank.
I. Commitments and Disbursements
3.31        Subsidiary Agreements:   The proceeds of the World Bank loan and
the Borrower's equity contributions would be made available to the Mortgage
Fund under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and
BUDBANK on terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank (para. 6.02 i).
This Agreement will include provisions to the effect that subloans to
Participating Banks would be denominated in Zlotys (para 6.01 vi) and that the
net revenues to the Mortgage Fund (after servicing the World Bank loan and
covering the Fund cost of operation) would be used for reinvestment in the
Fund's activities (para. 6.01 ix). In turn, BUDBANK would-nter into
Financing Agreements with each Participating Bank for the purpose of financing
the Construction or Mortgage Subloans that the Participating Banks may want to
underwrite with developers and/or households (the Beneficiaries). At least
one Construction Financing Agreement and one Mortgage Financing Agreement
entered into between the and a participating bank would be required as a
condition of effectiveness (para 6.02 i).
3.32        Commitment of Loan Proceeds:   By November 30 of each year,  would
submit to the Bank its financial projections for the following year and the
expected commitments from the Project lines of credit. These yearly programs
would be reviewed jointly to establish the magnitude of expected Bank
commitments and the required counterpart funds (para 6.01 ii). It is expected
that the beneficiaries would submit their projects and negotiate subloans with
the participating banks. Individual sub-loan agreements between the Mortgage
Fund and the participating banks would be sent to the Bank for prior approval
only when the construction cost of sub-projects exceeds US$1.0 million
equivalent. Through its own staff and consultants, the HFPO would continue to
offer technical assistance as needed during the three stages of
identification, preparation and evaluation of subprojects. The Mortgage Fund
would be mainly concerned with the general management of the program, the
final steps of sub-loan approval, and the monitoring of overall resource
commitments and disbursements.
3.33        The two lines of credit (total US$400 million including the World
Bank, the Government and EBRD funds) are expected to be committed over three
years (1992-1994). However, the final date for submission of sub-projects to
the Bank has been set at June 30, 1995 to provide some leeway.
3.34        Disbursement:   In the absence of disbursement profiles for
comparable operations in Central Europe, the schedule shown in Annex N has



- 29 -
been patterned on the experience of Infrastructure and IDF projects in the
ENENA Region that is of 26 quarter duration. This is coneiderably longer than
the historical profile of similar housing finance operations in other regions
(especially in Latin America) for which th- period of disbursement in of the
order of five years. The longer perspective has been adopted in view of the
weaker institutional base and managerial know how available in Poland. This
conservative profile allows for prudent assumptions on the growth of the
mubproject pipeline, the gradual acceptance of the mortgage instrument, a
moderate pace of implementation and minimum pressure on the budget for
counterpart funding. The date of December 31, 1989 has been assumed ae
Closing Date for the loan account.
3.35        The disbursement percentages proposed are as follows:
construction lcans:      30 percent of total construction costs which is
equivalant to 40 percent of a construction
subloan
mortgage loans:          30 percent of the value of a newly constructed
unit which is equivalent to 40 percent of a
mortgage subloan
3.36        For the disbursement of the mortgaae component, the Borrower will
submit Statements of Expenditures (SOE's) documenting to the Bank the amounte
onlent by BUDBANK to participating banks on account of DIM mortgages.
identification of the corresponding banks, sub-borrowers and sub-projects
would be required to support disbursement applications.
3.37        For the construction loan component, disbursements would depend on
work progress and would be based on full documentation of expenditures on all
subloans above US$1.0 million value, which are subject to ex-ante review. For
all contracts of lesser amounts, Statements of Expenditures (SOE's) would be
submitted by the Mortgage Fund, identifying the type, location, size and unit
costs of corresponding sub-projects.
3.38        To expedite execution of the construction loan component, it is
proposed to establish a Special Account at the National Bank of Poland with an
initial deposit of USS11.0 million (5.5 of loan proceeds), which represents
the estimated maximum requirement of a three month period. The Borrower would
withdraw the Zloty equivalent of the Bank's share of expenditures made by the
local banks on eligible sub-projects according to the exchange rate in effect
at the time the Borrower's disbursements were made. The Bank would replenish
the Special Account upon submission of withdrawal documents by the Borrower.
J. Supervision. Reeortina and Monitorina
3.39        The participating banks would be responsible for supervising the
execution of sub-projects, which would be carried out mainly by private
contractors. Representativeo of the banks would periodically visit each sub-
project and review the construction progress in view of disbursement needs.
This information would be reported to the banks in a format allowing for close
monitoring of project advances and authorization of payments. Technical



- 30 -
assistance in this respect would be supplied to the banks by the HFPO. Bank
supervision of this prc-ect in not expected to require excessive staff time
and should fall within he norm of 2-3 field misions per year. The HFPO will
continue to evaluate t}) impact of the project according to a program
satisfactory to the Bat , and would regularly forward its monitoring reports
to the Bank.
K. AccountLna and Auditing
3.40        The project accounts would be audited annually by a firm of
independent public accountants acceptable to the Dank, and the audLt would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The
auditor's opinion would include certification that the Bank loan funds have
been used for the project work identified, and that the underlying files and
documents support the disbursement requests made through the Statements of
Expenditure (para 6.01 viii). The Borrower would retain all required
documentation to support the SOE's and the disbursement requests and would
keep a record of all expenditures for review by the auditors and the Bank's
supervision missions.



- 31 -
Chapter IVs THE FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES
A. Current Structure of the Financial Sector
4.01        Poland's financial system is not as well developed as one would
expect of an economy of its size.  This is because the functions of financial
institutions were quite limited under the former centrally planned
administration.  Reform of the financial sector began in January 1989 with the
adoption of a new Banking Law and with the Act restructuring the National Bank
of Poland. The NBP Act separated lending from central banking functions and
transferred credit activities to newly created banks (9 commercial and 5
specialized banks). One of the latter, the National Savings Bank (PRO BP)
controls most of the current portfolio of housing loans. Beginning in early
1990, about 100 banking licenses have been awarded to new banks but only a few
of these, usually very small in size, are operational. The Housing
Development Bank (BUDBANK) has been established in late 1990 by the Ministry
of Spatial Economy and Construction. (para 4.10).
B. Ongoing Reform of the Financial Sector
4.02       The Government aims at developing a largely private and
competitive banking system which should allocate credit to those borrowers
which offer the best combination of low risk and high return. However, the
new banks are still suffering from limited autonomy, weak portfolios, lack of
real competition, poor banking skills, and inadequate financial structures. A
separate World Bank operation (the Financial Institutions Development Loan
(No. P-5535-POL)) was approved in June 1991 to support continued reforms in
the following key areas:
(a)   Leaal and Institutional Aspects of the Bankina System:  (i) bank
licensing, (ii) bank regulation and supervision, (iii) ownership
transformation, (iv) deposit insurance, (v) bank solvency, and
(vi) debt recovery and bankruptcy issues.
(b)   Accounting and Auditina Practicess  basically technical assistance
by the IMF and the Banque de France to attune Poland's accounting
rules with those of the EC.
(c)   Credit Policiess shifting from administrative credit allocations
to the use of monetary instruments (interest rates, reserve
requirements and open market operations) to influence the growth
and allocation of credit.
(d)   Interest Rates:  Periodic adjustments in the NBP refinancing rate
to reflect changes in inflation. The NBP rate has become the key
instrument of interest rate policy.
(e)   Financial Institutions strengthening the commercial banks through
twinning arrangements with foreign banks. Some of the specialized
banks (e.g. PRO BP) could be included in this program once they
have been audited and have submitted an action plan for reform.



- 32 -
C. Housino Finance Is2ues
4.03        Houring finance should not only benefit from the current systemic
reform in the banking sector but also increasingly contribute to the
considerable progreus that has been achieved already in controlling the growth
of upecialized credit schemes, in reducing their share of overall credit and
in curbing the segmentation of the financial market. To-date however, housing
credit 'has been growing faster than any other epecialized credit scheme even
after the adoption of the ETP: the portfolio of housing loans rose from zl 3.3
trillion at the end of 1989 to zl 40 trillion by the end of 1991. Over half
of this sharp increase has been due to the capitalization of most of the
interest accrued on outstanding loans (para. 1.16). At the end of 1991, the
housing debt exceeded 50 percent of total preferential credit.
4.04        Recent and proposed changes in sector policy should confer a
decisive role in the allocation of housing credit to market factors.
Nonetheless, this sector is likely to remain dependent on directed allocation
of resources as long as long-term financing, which is required to meet the
high cost of a home relative to household income, is not available in Poland's
capital market. In addition, with the help of special lending instruments,
the affordability problems of conventional mortgages will be overcome by
deferring payment of interest. Financing such instruments requires that a
certain share of domestic credit be earmarked for this purpose, at least
during a transition period. Establishing a well-designed and closely
monitored program of specialized credit may then be warranted by the
distinctive social and economic characteristics of the housing sector and by
the need to avoid the adverse effects (fiscal, allocative and distributional)
which would be induced by the continued dependence on budgetary and extra-
budgetary subsidies.
4.05        The Mortaace Affordability Problem:   Conventional lending
instruments are ill-suited to address the affordability problems caused by
high and volatile interest rates and/or falling real wages. When inflation
and nominal interest rates are high the payments required by Fixed Rate
Mortgages (FRM) or Adjustable Rate Mortgages (ARM) can rise quickly to levels
which are not affordable to most first time home buyers. The underlying issue
(commonly referred to as the "tilt" problem) is that the loan repayments are
heaviest in real terms at the beginning of the repayment period and therefore
increase the risks of default. Conventional mortgage instruments simply do
not provide sufficient protection for either the lender or the borrower and
are unlikely to persuade financial agents to volunteer long term resources for
housing if the financial environment is very volatile.
4.06        The Dual Index Moqrtaae (DIM):14 To overcome these problems,
several high inflation economies in Latin America have experimented with price
14    A good discussion of te DIM features Is found In INURD paper No. 62: Mortoape Design under Inflation
and Real Waae Unoertalnt: Me Us. of a Duw Index Mothaae by R. Buckley, G. Upman, and T. Persaud,
World Bank, 1990. See also AItfnat Motoaqe Instruments in Distorted Housing Svstems: How Useful
Is mte DfAM? unpublished EMTIN Regional Study by L Chiquiser and B. Renaud, World Bank, January,
1992.



- 33 -
or wage adjusted mortgage. One of the most reliable of such instruments has
been the DIN, which has been applied in Mexico, and also in France, to reduce
the ricks of loan default when inflation and interest rates rise. The
outstanding features of the DIM are that the annuity payments are periodically
adjusted (say quarterly or even monthly in highly unstable environments) to an
index that appropriately reflects changes in household income (e.g. a wage
index). The interest rate charged on the loan's outstanding balance varies
with changes in the market rate of interest. These features make mortgage
lending immune to inflation and greatly increase affordability. Any unpaid
portion of interent and principal is capitalized and repaid eventually as the
value of annuity payments rises in line with wage increases. Thus, in
contrast to the traditional mortgage instruments, the DIM requires nominal
payments to be increased regularly in order to amortize the loan. The
maturity of the loan is flexible to accommodate fluctuations in real interest
rates and real wages which delay or accelerate the pace of loan repayment.
For example, an increase in the real rate of interest at constant real wages
will require a longer maturity for the loan to fully amortize. To summarize,
the DIM is a flexible instrument that bears automatic, pre-negotiated
adjustments to changing economic conditions and thus reduces risk for the
lending institution. The appeal of the DIM is that the monthly payments are
predictable for the borrower as a constant share of income, while the lender
is assured a reasonable, positive return on the asset. A typical DIM
amortization table simulating repayment under the conditions now prevailing in
Poland, in provided in Annex I.
4.07        Implicit Risks:    Nonetheless, the proposed lending instrument is
not without financial risks. Two cases have been analyzed in which DIM loans
might fail to amortize. Both, real interest rate and real wage shocks could
prolong the DIM repayment period well beyond its normal maturity of 20 to 30
years, possibly making a portion of the loan non-recoverable. Sensitivity
analysis, however, shows that these shocks have to be deep and prolonged and
should occur in the early years of the loan in order to present a serious
danger of loan lose. This means, that only a portion of the housing portfolio
would be fully exposed to those risks at any point in time. Moreover, over a
longer period the volatility of rmal interest rates or real wages tends to be
less than that of nominal interest and wage rates, which should help to
recover potential losses in the early years of the loan. Finally, it was found
that a deteriorating loan-to-asset ratio poses only a small risk of default,
even under extreme conditions, if the borrower makes a 25 percent equity down
payment.
4.08        Funding Dual Index Mortaaaes:   Resort to the DIM implies that the
interest accrued during certain periods is not paid in full but is partially
capitalized by the lending bank. In practice, this means that, in order to
fund such a lending instrument in Poland today, an element of directed credit
will be necessary. This can be justified on the following grounds: (i) the
chosen instrument would not introduce distortions in the financial sectorl
(ii) borrowers would compete for the allocation of project funds; iii) under
prevailing economic conditions, no traditional mortgage instrument can make
housing credit accessible to a sizeable proportion of the population; (iv) no
alternative source of long-term funds is available on the Polish market, and
(v) major fiscal and credit policy objectives would be achieved by replacing



- 34 -
the prevailing interest rate subsidies with a financial instrument that
charges market rates and allocates resources according to the borrowers'
ability to pay. The proposed Project recommends to finance dual index
mortgages by creating a Mortgage Fund which would make long term loans to
participating banks on commercial terms.
D. The Mortaace Fund
4.09        Obiectives of the Fund.  The Mortgage Fund is expected to provide
a stable source of long-term capital for housing investments and to induce the
commercial and savings banks to underwrite mortgages for individual borrowers.
Although the Fund would finance only a portion of the country's housing needs,
it would introduce and develop mortgage instruments generally suitable to the
economic conditions now prevailing in Poland. The appraisal criteria adopted
by the participating banke would be conducive to a gradual restructuring of
the housing sector and should support the growth of private enterprises (paras
3.13, 3.14).
4.10        Establishment of the Mortoace Fund in BUDBANK.  One possibility
considered during appraisal was to create the Mortgage Fund as a new legal
entity, possibly in the form of a Government Foundation or a Trust Fund.
However, such solution was considered undesirable by the Borrower, as it would
have put the Mortgage Fund outside the discipline of banking regulation and
supervision. Instead, the Borrower proposed (and the Bank agreed) that the
Mortgage Fund be established as the preeminent activity of BUDBANK, S.A., the
bank created in mid 1990 by MOSEC and PKO-BP, each contributing 43 percent to
its capital15. The adoption of BUDBANK as the intermediary of the Bank Loan
recognized the bank's focus on housing finance as well as its special
relationship to MOSEC. However, such decision calls for substantial
modifications in BUDBANK's ownership structure, internal organization and
scope of activities which could only be settled with the concurrence of a
majority of its present shareholders.
4.11        Resolutions of BUDBANK Shareholders.  Two resolutions were passed
on April 25, 1992 by a qualified majority of BUDBANK shareholders, specifying
inter-alia that construction and mortgage financing in accordance with the
Project's Operational Manual would become the sole activities of BUDBANK
within a period of three years during which all non-conforming activities of
the Bank would be phased out and no new ones undertaken unless otherwise
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. Furthermore, the resolutions
intimated that no participating Bank could hold more than a 10 percent share
of BUDBANK capital and that before entering into a financing agreement with
BUDBANK they should relinquish their voting rights so as to avoid a conflict-
15 Th remaining 14 percent shares belong to some public enterprises, voioodships and a few private
indiwduals. BUDBANK opertons sared on October 1, 190 and its accounts have been audited by
KPMG for the period ending December 31, 1991 receiving a clear opinion in accordance with Polish and
International Accounting Standard. At the end of 1891, BUDOBANIs general loan portfollo totalled Zl.
198.8 billion (about US $15 million) Including provisions for doubtful debts of ZI. 01.6 billion or 11 percent
of poAYollo. During its first 15 months of operation, BUDBANK earned a profit of ZI 86 billion (US $0.7
million) after making provisions, which is equivalent to 19 percent of the bank's equity which totalled ZI.
46.2 billion. About 66 percent of BUDBANK loans were for a term of under one year. BUDBANK has a
staff of 133, Including 65 professionals and is headqua,tered In Warsaw with branches in Ton,n and
Poinan.



- 35 -
of-interest situation. This also implies that the shareholding participation
of PKO BP has to be substantially reduced if it is to become a principal sub-
borrower. The details of the two resolutions are presented in Annexes D-I and
D-II.
4.12 The Fund Resources would come initially from the Government, the World
Bank and other multi- or bilateral sources which might be interested in co-
financing. The Bank would supplement the Government's annual contributions to
the Fund on the basis of annual reviews of the Fund's ongoing and planned
investments. After several years of successful operation, the Mortgage Fund
may start raising resources through the sale of bonds.
4.13        Access to the Fund Resources:   The Mortgage Fund would channel
its resources to the final borrowers through any retail lender which meets
given eligibility criteria (paras. 3.13, 3.14). The intention is to counter
the possible segmentation of the mortgage market by favoring competition among
retail lenders. However, the single most important borrower in the early years
is 'ikely to be the National Savings Bank (PKO BP) because of its familiarity
with the sector and its extensive presence in the country (para 4.22). Other
banks are expected to follow suit as -hey gain confidence in the new system of
mortgage loans and find it attractive to diversify their portfolios.
4.14        Management and Staffing:   A Draft Statute for the proposed
Mortgage Fund, outlining the proposed inter-institutional arrangements, has
been reviewed by the Bank. The Fund, as a separate department of BUDBANK
would be governed by the bank's Board of Directors and would be steered by a
senior management team.  A statute (Bylaws) of the Mortgage Fund satisfactory
*to the Bank has been adopted by BUDBANK shareholders in their general assembly
of April 25, 1992. (Annex D-I). Conclusion of Inter-Institutional Agreements
satisfactory to the Bank, including delegations of authority would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan (para. 6.02 i). The HFPO is
curre.tly engaged in the following: (i) developing the organizational
structure of the Fund's during the first years of operation, (ii) preparing
draft legal contracts for onlending arrangements; (iii) developing detailed
guidelines for the Fund's operations; and (iv) identifying a qualified manager
and staff for the Fund. In the first year, the Fund is expected to employ a
permanent staff of 8 to 10 people including office support. In addition, the
Fund would receive substantial expatriate assistance under the Project's TA
component (para. 3.25 iii).
4.15        The Fund's Onlending Terms:  As explained above (para. 3.31) the
participating banks would enter into Financing Agreements with the Mortgage
Fund which would also specify eligibility criteria for the Construction and/or
Mortgage Subloans (paras. 3.13 and 3.14) against which Fund financing is
requested. Having determined that their applications meet these eligibility
criteria, the Fund would lend to participating bank at the following terms and
conditions (para. 6.01 x):
(i)   Currency:  All loans would be denominated in zloty (para. 6.01
vi).
(ii) Interest rates: variable and no less than 300 basis points above
the Basic Interest Rate of the National Bank of Poland (presently
defined as the refinancing rate).



- 36 -
(iii) Reoavment terms: constructi2n loans would be repaid at maturity
in a single payment including principal and interest. Mortgaae
loan. would be repaid according to a schedule tied to the payments
received from the ultimate borrowers and reflecting the cashflow
of the underlying indexed mortgage.
(iv) Fund Participation: The Fund would finance up to 80 percent of a
conutruction or mortgage loan.
(v)   Collateral: The Fund would have a fit lien on the mortgage in
case the sub-lending bank defaults.
(vi) Credit Risks The interest rate charged to the end-borrower would
include a premium for the bank which will take the risk on both
construction and mortgage loans.
4.16        Financial Projections:  The cash flow of the Fund has been
projected over a period of 20 years, somewhat longer than the repayment period
of the World Bank loan. The projections presented in Annex H trace the growth
of the Fund, assuming that its resources are limited to the Government's
capital contributions, the proceeds of the World Bank loan and cash reflows
from the subloans. The estimates were made in US dollars assuming a constant
average international inflation rate of 4 percent to year 2000, in line with
World Bank projections.
4.17        Exoected Results:   The projections assume that the Fund will have
diebursed about US$400 million at the end of the first six years ($200 million
from the Bank loan plus the contributions by the Government and EBRD). Thio
also includes reinvestment of about US$40 million received by the Fund as loan
repayments. Some 27,000 new units would be financed during this period. If
construction costs and house sale prices remained constant in real terms, the
Fund's assets would continue to grow to some US$1.9 billion even if no
additional capital or loan funding would be forthcoming. Over 20 years, the
Fund could develop into a buoyant source of finance, enabling the financing of
some 76,000 new dwellings out of its net revenues alone (para 6.01 ix) after
meeting its own current costs and the repayment of the World Bank loan16 (for
details see Annex H).
4.18        Risk Sharino: The onlending terms of the Fund to sub-borrowing
banks are assumed to match the cashflows of the underlying mortgages. To give
an example, if a mortgage bank borrows from the Fund, 80 percent of the
mortgage loan, it muet pass on to the Fund 80 percent of the current payments
received from the beneficiary until the loan ie fully paid off. Thus, the
Fund's cashflow and returns behave in the same way and share the same risks as
the underlying DIM's which, as explained above (para 4.06), are related to
variations in real interest rates and real wages. Special arrangements (e.g.
16 This Implies that both the re of exchange and the domestic Interest rafe continue to adjust to changes In
domestc and Intemational Inflaion, If this were the case, the Fund would be able to cover the costs of Its
foreign borrowing out of Its own resources. However, it i* recommended tha the exchange rat risk be
caffled by th Govemment



- 37 -
a first lien on mortgages) will be introduced to protect the Fund againet the
risk of default by participatlng banks.
4.19        Start-up Eauity:  An inltial capital contributlon by the
Government iL necessary to help manage the cashflow of the Fund including the
obligatLon to repay the Bank loan.17 A favorable debt equlty ratio in the
early years would leave room to raiLe reuources on the long term capital
markets in the future, especially if interest rates decline and real wage.
rise. As part of BUDBANK, the Fund should be able to access these markets in
the future and assist banks in managing the maturity and liquidity riske of
mortgage loans.
4.20            Subsidies:  At prevailing market rates of interest neither the
onlending terms of the Fund nor the underlying mortgages would involve
subsidies to the borrowing banks or the ultimate beneficiaries. Government
aosistance to the operation of the Fund would be limited to wavering any
charge for interest or dividend on its quity contributions, thus allowing the
Fund to re-lend all net cashflow from its operatlons after meeting its own
operating costs and the debt service on the World Bank loan (para. 6.01 ix).
E. The PartLcipatinc Banks
4.21        The, c rmneial Bank:s All nine commercial banks have been audited
during the preparation of the Financial Institutions Project Loan and will
benefit from the large and inteneive technical aseistance program envisaged in
the implementation of that loan (para 4.02). The staff of commercial banks
could also benefit of specialized training in the approval and management of
construction and mortgage loans which would be provided under the Technical
Aseietance program of the housing project (para 3.25 iv).
4.22        PKO BP:  About 80 percent of the social housing portfolio ie now
in the hands of Powuzechna Kasa Oszczednosci Bank Panstwowy (PKO BP), a
prominent savings bank which iL fully state-owned.18 The 49 regional offices
and 316 local branches of PKO hold now approximately half of the country's
private savings deposits in about 40 million passbook accounts and 6 million
time deposit accounts which are all cnvered by an explicit State guarantee.
Significantly, about half of PRO's deposits are made of the houeing savings
accounts of the 2.5 million cooperative members who keep their passbooks for
an average period of 15 years. In the short and medium term, PRO ie likely to
17    Under th projects assumptions, dh following contibutfons are expected from the Govemment $20
mililon In 192 $25 million In 1993; $34 million In 1994; $36 million In 1905; $37 million In 1996; $38
million In 1997; and $10 million In 19. However, th Govemment's cash oudasy may be substantally
reduoed by EBRD pawtcipaton In financing th conutrucffon component as follows: $11.0 In 1992, $10.0 in
199Z $19- In 199; $22.0 In 1905; $30.0 in 19; #26.0 In 1907, and $17.0 In 1998.
The balance of thw housing pochilo Is held by th Bank of Food Economy (BGZ) and by many smaller
cooperet  bak. Unlike PKO, which cotred nainly to uran coopertves, BGZ e*ended credit to the
,iul cooperaem or to IndIdual famers building on hir own land.



- 38 -
continue functioning as a princlpal window for housing credit applications.19
4.23        PRO Portfolio and Financial Performance:  At the end of 1991 PKO's
housing portfolio amounted to the equivalent of some US$3.5 billion (ZI. 40
trillion). Thiu represented about 46 percent of the bank's total assets and
68 percent of all its loans made in 1990, up from 27 percent and 60 percent
respectively in 1988 and 1989. An of June 30, 1991 most of PRO'e housing
portfolio (76 percent) consisted of loans still under disbursement, which are
vulnerable to the combined effects of high interest rates and inflated
construction prices. An audit and a diagnostic study of PRO completed in
September 1991 have shown a significant proportion of the current housing loan
portfolio not to be fully recoverable. This is mainly so because loans used
to be made to the housing cooperative as a whole without regard to the ability
of its individual members to meet the share of loan repayment corresponding to
the flats they receive. At present, cooperative loans account for 92 percent
of PKO housing portfolio.
4.24        Need of an Action Prooram for PRO:  Past housing policies have
undermined the financial viability of the country's largest savings bank. It
has become urgent to restructure PKO portfolio of outstanding housing loans to
recapitalize the bank and to introduce major institutional changes. The
Government has already moved to correct many of the inefficiencies of the old
housing finance system, most notably through the adoption of the Dual Index
Mortgage as the standard current lending instrument (Decrees of 03/25/91 and
10/01/91; see Annexes C-I and C-Il). In February 1992, the Parliament has
approved the Government's proposal to cancel all construction loans still
under disbursement as of March 31, 1992 in order to reduce the destabilizing
financial and fiscal effects of the old housing portfolio (para. 2.06). For
1992 alone, this measure is likely to yield a reduction in the order of 1
percent of GDP in the housing subsidies proposed in the Budget Plan. However,
additional measures must be taken to relieve PKO of the burden of a non-
performing portfolio as part of the broader effort to restructure and
strengthen the financial system at large. This issue ie being addressed
jointly by the Government of Poland, the World Bank, and the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD).
4.25        Secaration of Proiect Accounts: One should expect that
strengthening PRO's financial position and implementcing the necessary
managerial and administrative changes will require some time.  Since it would
be unrealistic to exclude PRO from participating in the proposed project
during such period, the accounts of loans financed with resources from the
Mortgage Fund would have to be separated from all other PRO activities.
Therefore, PRO and other sub-borrowers would be requested to operate a special
19   It must be noted St PKO has been and continues to be sublect to a arge degree of Influence by the
Natonal Bank of Poland (NBP) and the Ministby of FRnance (MOF). Contols apply to: a) Its product focus
(th bank Is required to make at leat 7% of its hans for housing); b) Its lending terms and conditons
(perlodicely set by the Council of Ministers); c) the volume of Its aggregate credit, mandatory reses
and refinandng credit (set by NBP for all Me-owned banks); and d) the salary levl of Its 34,000
empyees (contoolled as In adl stat-owned Instttons). Othr sowoes of Influence on PKO are the
hosing cooptvs and the Ministry of Consouction (MOSEC).



- 39 -
window through which all future loans supported by the Mortgage Fund would be
handled and which would be independently audited every year (para 6.01 xii).
The special windows would benefit from the Technical Assistance Program
outlined for PXO (para 3.25 iv above). The twinning option would also be
pursued upon request by the Government.
4.26       ,Financina Terms to the Flnal Borrowers Whether issued through PXO
or any of the commercial banks all construction and mortgage subloans bearing
Mortgage Fund financing should meet the eligibility criteria listed in paras
3.13 and 3.14 above. All mortgages financed under the Project would be dual
index mortgages, with repayment being adjusted to changes in the average wage
index and interest accruing according to the real rate of interest. The
starting interest rate would be the prevailing market rate but no less than
300 basis points above the Basic Interest Rate of NBP (para 6.01 x). Mortgage
payments would be on a monthly basis; the adjustments to changes in the
indicee would be made on no less than a quarterly basis. There would be no
grace period. Any unpaid portion of interest and/or principal due would be
added to the outstanding loan balance.



- 40 -
Chapter V: PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01        Standard economic rat- of return analysis is not applicable to the
proposed project. Imputing shadow rental values in order to estimate the
stream of benefits would be fraught with problems because, up to very
recently, prices have played no role in the demand for and supply of housing
services. However, the very scarcity of housing in Poland suggests that
market rents should be high and that housing investments would yield a high
rate of return.
5.02        Transformation of the country's economy implies also that housing
prices should be determined by the market rather than set administratively. As
discussed in Chapter 2, the Project supports the Government's gradual strategy
of sector reforms which starts with the development of a homeowners- market.
However, the efforts in this direction will need to be sustained and extended
beyond the disbursement period of this loan.
5.03        The principal value of the Project is to generato a source of long
term finance for housing, which would offer unsubsidized, sustainable lending
to future homeowners. The housing investments to be financed under the
project would be selected according to market principles by a financial
intermediary which uses truly commercial criteria in allocating it. funds to
prospective borrowers. Trading-off the current, unpredictable interest rate
subsidies with scheduled and relatively small budgetary transfers to the
Mortgage Fund would be a more efficient use of public resources (para. 6.02
i). Efficiency gains would arise also from design improvements. The Fund,
the participating banks and the investors will receive technical assistance in
the evaluation of proposed projects and the management of loans.
5.04        Distributional ImDact. The proposed Project aims at developing a
private supply of housing and strengthening housing finance institutions. It
has been designed to minimize subsidies to future homeowners, who are expected
to repay in full the borrowed amounts. The project will, therefore, serve that
segment of housing demand which can support development of a market-based
supply. As long as the Project would achieve full cost recovery from its
beneficiaries, it would also bring about a more equitable system than the one
being replaced, which allocates subsidies in an indiscriminate fashion. In
order to ensure that households in the middle to lower middle income
brackets20 could benefit of the Project upper limits have been set on both
the size of construction loans and the floor area of units that can be
financed with proceeds from the Mortgage Fund.
20    Up to very recently, the cuNve of Income distNbutdon for Poland has been relatvely flat up to the 8th decile
(an evident resuft of past equalization policies). Also, there appears to be an tnverse correlation between
household Income and dwolling tenure: more than half of families In the two poorost dectles are
homeowners (42% of them are sole occupants of their own premises). See Poland: A Strateov for the
Housina Sector. report of the Joint Bank-Polish Task Force on Housing, July 1990.



- 41 -
B. Risks
5.05        The proposed project has required considerable institutional,
regulatory and policy changes to enable a quick supply response. However,
these represent but a few first steps towards the more systemic reforms which
would be needed to offset the current market distortions. Subsequent Bank
operations may be necessary to consolidate the progress made under this
project and to pursue the longer term objective of restructuring the whole
housing sector. The institutional framework in which the proposed operation
would take place is one of transition, which makes the project vulnerable to
external events. Both the financial intermediary (the Mortgage Fund) and the
implementation agents (the participating banks and the developers) would be
laboring under a climate of uncertainties as far as prices and interest rates
are concerned, while the real incomes of households may continue to fluctuate,
possibly jeopardizing the affordability of the finished dwelling to the
customers they were originally intended for.
5.06        The proposed project has been designed to reduce some of the above
risks through the dual index mortgage which defers part of loan repayments
(para 6.01 iii). With an initial infusion of capital from the budget, the
Mortgage Fund could help offset the cashflow shortages incurred by the banks
by capitalizing unpaid interest, maintain sufficient liquidity to repay the
World Bank loan and reinvest net revenues in new mortgage loans. It is
expected therefore, that the government would confer sufficient priority to
the project to assure the needed equity contributions over the first five
years of the Fund's operation (para 6.01 i).
5.07        One measure of success would be the clear separation between the
financial mechanism of the proposed project (which should be consistent with
the credit policies adopted for other sectors of the economy), and any
parallel housing scheme funded with public resources (which may include an
element of subsidy as long as it is kept explicit, well targeted and
predictable)(para 6.01 x). Continuity and coherence of government policy in
this respect would be essential and an official Statement of Housing Finance
Policy has been required for future reference.
5.08        The dwellings built under the project will be bought by those
households w4ich are more able and willing to mobilize personal savings into
sizeable downpayments and can meet corresponding debt-service payments.
Should economic conditions deteriorate, higher income households than those
originally intended might become the principal project beneficiaries. This
might secure longer term distributional benefits from the project, when
conditions improve and lower income beneficiaries become again eligible.
5.09        Other operational risks stem from the lack of experience of the
sub-borrowers with the chosen mortgage instrument, a slower than expected
progress in clarifying property rights, in revising obsolete land development
regulations and in the possible shortage of developable land sites. Most of
these risks should be reduced through the substantial injection of technical
assistance, hands-on advice and training of personnel which is considered
under the project.



- 42 -
ChaRter VI: AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01        During Negotiations the following agreements have been reached:
i)    Counterpart financing would be appropriated annually
according to an agreed schedule in the budget of the
Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction (para 3.07);
ii)   Joint reviews of commitment/investment programs would be
held yearly (paras 3.09 and 3.32);
iii)  Only Dual Index Mortgages issued to individual households
would be eligible for financing under the Project (paras
3.10 and 5.06);
iv)   Construction subloans would be appraised by the
Participating Banks according to agreed criteria including
environmental impact criteria (paras 3.13 and 3.22);
v)    Mortgages would be issued by the Participating Banks
according to agreed criteria of eligibility (para 3.14);.
vi)   Subloans to Participating Banks would be made in Zlotys
(paras. 3.15 and 4.15);
vii)  Work contracts above US$1.0 million value would be awarded
according to locally advertised, competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank (para 3.27);
viii) Annual reports by qualified independent auditors would be
sent to the Bank covering the Special Account, the Mortgage
Fund and the accounts of any Participating Bank (para 3.40);
ix)   Net revenues of the Mortgage Fund,(after servicing the World
Bank loan) would be used for reinvestment in new subloans
(paras 4.15 and 4.17);
x)    Financing of new housing starts under parallel programs
supported with public resources would be compatible with the
terms and conditions of the Mortgage Fund (para 5.07);
xi)   The interest rate charged to participating banks would be
variable and at least 300 basis points above the Basic
Interest Rate of the National Bank of Poland. The interest
rate charged to final borrowers would also be variable and
no less than 300 basis points above the Basic Interest Rate
*of the National Bank. (paras 4.15 and 4.26);



- 43 -
xii) The Participating Banks would keep separate accounts in
respect of the activities financed under the Construction
and/or Mortgage Financing Agreements, such accounts to be
separately audited every year (para 4.25).
6.02        Loan Effectiveness would be contigent upon satisfactory compliance
by the Borrower with the following conditions:
i)    A Subsidiary Agreement would be entered into between the
Borrower and BUDBANK on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 3.31). At least one Construction Financing
Agreement and one Mortgage Financing Agreement would be
entered into between the Mortgage Fund and one participating
bank (para 3.31);
ii)   BUDBANKD shareholders would take a resolution restricting
the scope of BUDBANK's activities to the financing of
construction and mortgage loans in accordance to the
Operational Manual (para 3.22) under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower would make a $11
million equity contribution to the Mortgage Fund (para
4.19).
With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$200 million equivalent with a term of
17 years, including a four-year grace period at the standard variable interest
rate.



-44-
ANNEXES
Housing Policy Statement. ........ . .... .................. .   A
Legislation Affecting the Housing Sector................ o    B
Ordinance of the Council of Ministers: March 25, 1991 .........C-X
Ordinance of the Council of Ministers: October I, 1991 ...... C-UI
Resolution No. 2 of BUDBANK Assembly of Shareholders..........D-X
Resolution No. 3 of BUDBANK Assembly of shareholders ..........D-XI
operational Manual Contents. ....              .... .. ... .... .
Application for Construction Credit ..........     ..  ... F..
Standard Contract Forms.....................................0
Cash Flow Projections of the Mortgage Fund    ............     H 
Dual Index Mortgage Amortization Table ....................*.O.9e
Project Profiles ....................... . .. * ... . ......... J
Analyoio of Project Costs .... ............... . .... . .....K1
Technical Assistance Program .....................................   .. L
Reporting and Monitoring System.. ..................... K 
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement ............................ N
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File ......................................................... O



-  .45.                             AN~NEX A
Page 1 of 6
HOUSING POLICY STATEMENT
(Summary of the document submitted to the Parliament
by the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction, Spring 1991)
The document:
1.   Outlines the Government' s role in promoting change from administrative
to market-base allocation of housing. This implies the following tasks for
the various levels of government;
-     making projections of housing demand and supply; continuous by
monitoring the housing markets;
-     adapting physical planning to the needs of a market economy;
-     acquiring and serviclng land for residential use; exercising some
control over land prices;
-     carrying out buLlding inspections;
-.    providing low-cost rental housing for the poor;
-     establishing housing allowance schemes for low-income groups;
-     granting tax relief to mobilize savings into housing investment;
-     adopting deferred payment schemes on houslng loans during periods
of high inflation and establishing a budget-supported credit
facility to finance capitalization of interest;
-     developing the regulatory framework and monitoring the performance
of the banking institutions operating in the housing sector;
-     facilitating systematic information;
-     assuring competition among housing suppliers.
2.   Makes recommendations on particular areas of houslng policy and housing
management. These include:
Ownershin richts to cooperative aoartments. The tenancy rights to
cooperative apartments should be converted into ownership rLghts. The current
ownership rights (described in the Polish law an "limited right to real estate
propertyw) should be converted into condomLnium-type ownership rights.



-46-                          ANNEX A
Page 2 of 6
Rents in communal housing. Some control over the rent levels may be
necessary as long as housing supply is insufficient. Rent control has to be
balanced agaLnst the disincentives to potential housing investors. Due
protection should be assured to tenants, securing the stability of rental
contracts without excessive restricting the rights of the owner. Landlords
must be able to exercise eviction rights Ln cases of persistent violations of
contrac' agreements. Tenants must be protected from situations in which
'unreasonable' rents are demanded (for details of the rent decontrol proposal,
see the overview of the Housing Act in Annex B). The budgetary resources
currently spent on maintenance of communal housing will be spent on housing
allowance schemes and on now construction (some of which will be low-cost
communal housing).
Manaaement of communal and coolerative housinq. The management
structure of communal and cooperative stock management companies should be
diversified. Both public and private bodies can be considered.
Privatization of communal housina. The purchase option should be
offered to sitting tenant or to members of the family living in the apartment.
Vacant communal and enterprise units should be auctioned off.
Physical lahnina and desian. A new 'Spatial Economy' Act, regulating
physical planning, investment permits and land markets, is being drafted in
the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction. Some immediate solutions
have been developed in the 'anti-crisis' legislation, currently in Parliament
*(Act on Special Conditions for Realization of housing Construction in Years
1991-1995 and on Amendments to Some Acts - see Annex B). The urgent issue is
to move away from rigid design standards. The current standards result in
unduly high construction costs and do not account for regional differences.
Financina of infratructure. The primary infrastructure will be
financed byt (i) own resources of the utility enterprises; (ii) budget
resources of the local governments, communal development bonds, taxes and fees
from land sales, and advance payments of non-residential users; (iii) funds
obtained through revenue-sharing scheme; and (iv) credit to be repayed through
user fees and other budgetary revenues of local governments.
Reforms of the buildina sector. The restructuring and privatization
process must be speeded up to bring down construction cost and to diversify
housing supply. Privat_zation should be preceded by the subdivision of
Kombinats into smaller units. The entry of new housing suppliers and the
adoption of competitive bidding should assure a more appropriate level of
prices and increase efficiency in the sector. The new standards should
conform to those used by the European community to guarantee adequate
technical quality of new housing. These standards will be limited to
consideration of safety and health, energy saving, environmental protection
and appropriate solutions such as access to buildings by handicapped persons.



ANNEX A
Page 3 of 6
Housing finance. It will be necessary to make a distinctior between the
medium-term construction credit and long-term mortgage credit   For mortgage
credits, the loan amount will be related to the income of the borrower. Down-
payment should not be lower than 20% of price/cost, and maturities should not
exceed 30 years. Interest rates should be ajustable. With the current price-
to-income ratios, deferred payment solutions must be used. Unpaid interest
could be capitalized and partially financed with public funds. The government
must assure the effective implementation of mortgage credit by: (i) assuring
the appropriate legal environment, particularly an enforceable foreclosure
law; (ii) stimulating the mobilization of savings by paying real positive
interest rates to depositors and by creating contractual saving systems; (iii)
assuring competition among banks participating in housing finance; (iv)
creating the institution for mortgage credlt insurance; (v) creating mortgage
banks, and secondary mortgage markets; and (vi) continuing with the anti-
inflationary policy. The system of medium-term construction loans with
guarantees of long-term mortgage credit has been adopted by PKO at the
beginning of 1991.
Fiscal ooliey and housgng finance. The bill on personal income tax (to
be introduced in 1992) is currently in Parliament. The bill proposes to allow
generous deduction of housing expenditures from the taxable personal income.
Some other tax relief measures will be introduced in 1992 for investors in
rental housing. The new tax will also be introduced to prevent hoarding
residential plots without building. This tax will be a part of the system of
local taxes and fees (act being drafted).
Low-cost communal housina. Low-cost communal rental housing could be
partially subsidized from the central budget. The central budget would
participate under the following conditions: (i) cost per m2 below the
provincial average; (ii) budget participation should not exceed 50% of
construction costs; (iii) rents should cover maintenance costs; (iv) access to
these units would be limited to low-income families; and (v) the budget would
participate in financing no more than 40 m2, regardleso of the actual size of
the units.
Housing assistance. The increases of rent and utility charges will
necessitate the development of housing allowance schemes. These schemes will
be part of social assistance program and will be further developed by the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy with the cooperation of the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Spatial Ecnomy and Construction.
Other 'anti-crisis' measure. In future, a general 'real estate' tax
can be introduced to generate funds.
Apart from the legislative acts already in Parliament, three acts are
still being drafted in the Ministry of Physical Planning and Construction: the
'Soatial Economy' At, the Buildina Code and the Act on the Office of Minister
of Housina and Spatial Economy.



-48-                                        ANNEX A
Page 4 of 6
POLAND - PInRg HMOSWN  PRIXECT - HOUSING SECTOR POGM
Arec of RFleformleaue        Actn. Akredv Taken                   xt S                          Futum Aton
A. Housing SuboMeld
1.  ouin suies have          Govmrment has dafted a             Approve rvisd housing           Develop concrste acton programs
ecountad fo 8.1O % of       Housing Poky pawhh                 po   and now Housing            to Iplement new poles
budgetay expendituree         I being dscussed In               Aal
and 241% of DP cusing        Parlment Poy proposl
mor setor and eono           emphasies grear efficiency.
wide dtrtIns.                and reduced subide
2. Subeid  hae been          tnterset raes on housing           Develop schedule to             tmplment rent reforn polic
untageted and we              cane raid to mat bveIs            () pheso out rent control,      Monitor tho use of DIM*
probabl cgraIv.              Unpaid Itt  1 cspltasd,           (i) protec those who
and nubsidIud by tho budget       oanot pay market rnts
(ill oreats Mortgage
FRnd to help banks Onanc
DIMs.
a. SubsidIe he               Adoption of canmeml                Convert Interet subidleo        Mako mortgage lendg Into
Inflated houeing demand      mortgage Isaiding chteri           Into a viable source of         an attractIve bualneu
whle production was           Dusl Index Mortgag  DOW)          credit reviw tho                for the baiking sectr
controlled through simt      should eliminat subidle            revlew tho regunlay             prfvatz the buidng
credit alloction             aid 11mit demnd                    frmework eneoumging             Industry
competiti  mong uppper
of housing
IL RmntalPooleis
1. Rente hae been             overment h  ned wntn              Ronove rulone deterring         Re n two-yer  plan
tightly controlld            prlodiaCy duing the                sitno toennta fom               to reach mt  nt
and amount to no moe         paet yoe  but net enough           elast rmponee to higher          ontext of wage polic
than 2 parnt of an           to sahleve real h-orsones.         prics includo market            and new forms of targeted 
averageo horshold ktom       Noew houng GM pepad                hIto  In admnbted               support
rentn
2 Support fo                 Only a very rudinlfntay            Cony out *tudy of design        intoduoe houing alnowe
low icme rental              etem of diret housng               and feature of houing           In step wHh rent de-control
housing                      allowance exitt. Rent              aowce system                    mssuree end rent hncress
oontrol has been tie
principal mechanism
C. Manacemwnt of
public houslno
1. PubgI stock h             None                                ntrduce competition by         Prlvae the management of
munaged by nefficdent        Housing Poky Stament               aowing smallerpvt               publi houing
public agenm                 mntpidos pfiatzto                  Nrim to take pet of the
reponsble for nt             objective                          managmnt funtons
codolon, O&J
O. P     dletiom
1. 2% of the ta and          Ohiedture remains                  Provde afforde long             Avold faet priaatilon
40% of the  n  housing       stated objective of                 term finance to aclte          at housing slack fo short
stock ae owned by the        Govmment poiy. Prevous             pruvalixation and               tem flow reasons: rent
publc and entetptiss         attempte at low pr                 renovation of pubc stock        reform end  cos  to
secw. OUlM  l thes           divetitur notv vy                                                  ftinno mut co"efir t
dwellO i seIi                succssfu
burden on Governmt



-49-                                      A'NEX  A
IVage 5 of 6
Ar  of Reformllsuse           Aftions Alradv Taken                Next Stene                      Future Actbn.
E. Tenan  Rbhtt
t. Cune nt tancy  ight.       IN prevented to Parliament         Adopt now legislation           BaJano. the hnteret
ogley *pectd                  propoed rptolng the                No expernce yet GI               of ownern nd rentem and tum
adrninistratlve allocation of      Implementaton of                tanantn right. Into fi Wmn
dweigs with  H                     evctin law                      renewable Igh. Maintain
renta ontrmte. New                                                 adequate tenant protcton
wiction law abollhee
rile that evctd tenant
automatically be given
substte housing
F. HoushinRnance
1.  Ulordabft of              Dual Index Mortgae (DIM            Implment DIM fuiy.              set up eyntem to monitor
Lending bnewument             adopted by Dec  In                 prowide TA to banke              inplenwenttiLon and rdak
October 1UI                        to pprae and                    of DMlU
ontrol rsks of now
blndlng insvunmnt
2. Fnancing DIMe              Agreeet to set up a                Recrult ocoptent aff             Devolop Mortg    Fund Into a
Motgage Fund to finance            to strt up the                  competent. oommrnlaly
part of the mortgagee              Mortgage Fund                    pating source of howiing flnance
Issued to houeholde                Fund
by tho banks
3. Old huslg loa              Payments on housing khn            Define teemw for                 Evaluate poslbty to convert
portfoio                      home been Inked to bcrrowees       Govenment ptil                   prt of old housng loan Into payg
hicome cspitang any unpaid        purche of capitaized             mtgage. Cancel dsburewants for al1
porin of Intereot due.             Interest; negotia               lo"n st under construction
C mvernmentllnnOse part            Intest rates and grace          s of 411119U2
of the coRilnd Intresti            perod b     n th Mink"ry
on rant tbems. Rk of               of Finance ad FlKO BP
*xoWe subdldy grwtrh
because the underlying lon
portio l not peffarming
4. Rewoue Uobill2ation        Contact. Initiated to              Continue ongoing reseth          Strtw nplmentation of
for housing                   *xperece In rsure                 develop polcy prposl            apprcwd policy
mobilizaton of other counties      suitble for Polad
by mld-102
S Renovati, home              Mos Impnovent loans                Prepar pro,ts fr                Upgrade, privatiz the pubio
i    vrovembnta              Included In houing                  upgrding tho pubic              houstng stock
fance pakago                       housng stock
Q. Lal Fantewoek
I. Poory defined              most mal property                  Stngthen the judbl              Deeo land and morw
prpety ight. i                transaons ruled agai                * Sale proedurse                reg se, ntuetfloe
an slonmnt of                 by cl law. Lmited                     Wrionof pubic
predominanty sqt               Rght Act Evtion                   purpc_. potetn of
or qusae sto ownerhip         Law                                ownerhip rIghta.
2. iadequate ocard            OMf Law to pro                      Finalz draft lw                 Approve and Imptment new law
on bntk bn  problmatic        banks with CoPIater                through proe at
entorcment GI deting          Scuety ior sll kinds               inteinteeWl reiw
blegislation                  of ommral aeet. In                 and Prllamentary
simple end quick manner            Ratfication
without ret to ocurts.
RePl estat propsety
Included In dratt lw



-50-                                         ANNEX A
Page 6 of 6
Area of Rfcrmflleue           Actions Already Taken              Next Soes                       Future Actions
Banking law and              New Banking Law and Act on the     Produce new guidelines          Inplement now guldoen*e;
regulatbons outated           NW introduced In January 160       for prudent banking            kIprov banking supervision
and Incomplete                Amendment. to Law approved by      regultion, lensing,
Parlunent on lsptt 20, 1901       portfolo eonontrtion,
capital adequacy, loan
oeaafoation, provIsIonIng,
Interest aocrual,
acoountIng and auditing.
liquldity requirements, ad
banking superAsion
4. Obsolete land              AntS-rIss Act approved             RevhI mactsr plne,             Intensity development hI ares
developnwnt gution            by Patlament L  ndtUeo and         zoning and subdSlion           with pubi servboe
Exprfprlatn Act approved          regulations e suitabble         infratructure
6 Coopemthres sitng           Olcusene of lgd                    Revie legal baisP Revoke concessions; put lnd
an unused, developod land     vaidity of conoetons               for concesin                    back on tho market
H. Construction Induotr
1. c-adty of budOin          Price liberalzed                  Introduce some new              Continue diversification
matneia                       fre hmports                        product                        of buldIng matrdab
2. Constructon
enterprises, mainly W- gp,    E3oiu'sti rlghts Inked             Restructure end privatiu       AdJust rgultory fmewk
Inefficient, state owned     to Oither  es or                    vlabts enterpr; ntroduce       to oncourgo growth of
enterpris  which usod          ps  Of buidtnog                   competitiv, bidding            compettiive oonstrueon
to have regional or mwket     hav been removed                   technkbl assostnce             Indus"
nonopolle
S. Budling Technology         Trad Monal tolmdogy                Increase comtition              Let pr     nd onum
conakting predominantly        ncouraged hI smah                 among buldere to foster        preferenoo determine choioc
of heavy. pre-fabriated       muWfamily and single               greater diverity and           of bulding tchnlogy
concrete panoos, rquiring     fwny hous                          choie of buDding
heavy equipment and                                             technolbee
captive, lrgo mawrkt
4. Lack of cost and           Inceasd acountablty               Improe onstrution               Encourg Jont venture.
qualt control                 of eontrco                         managent, oosdno               with foreign firmaon
and prikcng praoso             lag e ontacs



-51-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
LEGISLATION AFFECTING the HOUSING SECTOR
I.    Laws of particular relevance to the housing sector:
1.    Tho Constitution (as amended) arts. 6 and 7; and arts. 42-47.
2.    The Civil Code, 1964 (as amended) (including amendments proposed
in March 1990 and October 1991).
3.    The Acts on Local Autonomies, March 1990.
4.    The Housing Act, 1974 (as amended)
5.    The Land Use and Expropriation Act, 1985 (as amended).
6.    The Spatial Planning Act, 1984 (as amended).
7.    The Building Code, 1974 (as amended)
8.    The Real Estate Mortgage and Registry Act, July 1982 (proposed
amendments 1991).
9.    The Act. on Cooperatives, 1982 (as amended, incl. proposed
amendments 1991).
10.   The Act on Change. in the organization and Activity of the
Cooperative Movement, 1990.
11.   The Act on the Systematization of Credit Relations, December 1989.
II.   overview of recent dee]oomen=3
A.    Bills submitted to the Parliament by the Council of Ministers which are
awaiting ratifications
1.    Rental Housina and Tenant Protection Act.  The 1974 Housing Act
contained guidelines governing the administrative allocation of
housing. The proposed act is considered a supplement to the
provisions of the Civil Code regarding civil contracts for rental
housing. It includes a two-year scheme for rent decontrol of
communal housing1. The original draft of the HoujinL Act has now
been reconciled with its counter-proposal, the Parliament-
The provisions of is Act would not apply to enterprise housing for which the rents would be regulated by
the ChIl Code.



-52-
Annex B
Page 2 of 5
submitted Tenant Protection Act (see footnote on page 3). This
latest version of the draft will be reconsidered by the Parliament
after elections.
2.    The Anti-Crisis Act (Act on Special Conditions of Realization of
Housing Construction in Years 1991-1995 and Amendments to Some
Acts). Provides temporary regulations on most urgent issues
facing local governments in the area of physical planning,
investment permits, and provision of serviced residential land.
The law has been approved by the Parliament and the Senate and is
expected to be signed by the President shortly.
3.    The Act on Some Limited Real Prooertv Riahts.  Allows the use of
limited property rights (such as cooperative ownership) as
collateral for housing credit. The draft has been approved by the
Parliament: objections raised in the Senate will be addressed by
the Parliament after the elections (they can be overridden by a
two third majority vote).
4.    The Eviction Act. Make mortgages an adequate loan security by
removing the obligation to provide alternative housing in order to
evict a person upon foreclosure. The act was approved by the
Parliament in October 3, 1991.
S.    The Soatial Plannina Act. Seeks to make zoning and land
development control regulations and investment permit procedures
more flexible and supportive of the market economy. Accepted by
the Council of Ministers and submitted to the Parliament; first
reading to take place after elections.
6.    The New Buildina Code.  Redefines the minimum acceptable standards
for construction. Accepted by the Council of Ministers and
submitted to the Parliament; first reading after elections.
B.    Other legislative developments:
1.    The Procurement Act.  This bill is intended to institutes rules
and regulations for bidding procedures in the procurement of
construction works in investment projects with the participation
of central or communal funds. The narrow scope of the bill caused
its rejection by the Council of Ministers. A new version,
addressing the procurement of all goods and services in publicly
funded projects, is being drafted. Temporary regulations will be
provided with the Budget Bill.
2.    The Imolementina Reaulations to the Land Use and Exorooriation Act
(amended 1990) have been enacted.



-53-
Annex B
Page 3 of 5
III. Overview of the Bills
1.   Rental Housina and Tenant Protection Act
The general provisions include: (i) moving away from the administrative
allocation of dwellings to rental contracts based on civil-law; (ii) making
the housing sector self-financed through rent increases, with a housing
allowance paid to low-income households; (iii) granting extensive control over
the public housing stock to the local governments, including control over rent
levels and management service contracts; (iv) redefining the rights and
responsibilities of landlords; (v) assuring strong tenant protection, but
limiting tenancy 'inheritance' to the spouse of the main tenant; (vi)
permitting individuals or married couples to rent only one dwelling built with
state subsidies, but also to own more than one; (vii) more efficient
processing of compensation claims by private owners of rent-controlled multi-
story buildings and by former owners of real property taken over by the state;
and (vii) abolishing the current design and overcrowding standards to permit
more efficient use of the stock through exchanges and construction of low-cost
housing. (These provisions would not apply to the enterprise-owned stock, for
which rentals would be regulated by the Civil Code).
The most important (and politically controversial) feature of the Bill
is the two-year rent-decontrol elan which proposes to increases rents on the
entire controlled stock up to a ceiling corresponding to 3% of (current)
replacement cost. Also, rents would be better related to dwelling
characteristics. Meanwhile, the inflation of prices in municipal services has
forced the Government to increase rents by administrative decree. However, the
February and July increases have been largely offset by inflation, so the
subsidy for the maintenance of the municipal stock (without heat and hot
water) has effectively remained at last year's level. The next increase (100%)
is planned for January 1992.
The Ministry's first draft of the Rental Housing bill met last year with
strong opposition. A Parliamentary group has presented a counter-proposal to
the Housing Act called the Tenant Protection Act. MOSEC Department of Housing
Policy has now produced a second version of the Rental Housing bill. This
second version has recently been reconciled with the Tenant Protection bill
under the new name of The Housina and Tenant Protection Act and should be
brought to the attention of the new Parliament.
2. The Act on Special Conditions of Realization of Housina Construction in
Years 1991-1995, which has become known as the "Anti-Crisis Act", has been
issued on a temporary basis in anticipation of the regulations mentioned under
5 below. The rationale for issuing the Anti-Crisis Act at this time was based
on the perceived needs tot i) facilitate the supply of land to encourage house
building, ii) simplify and accelerate the granting of building permits, iii)
allocate land at subsidized conditions to particular social groups, and iv)
offer fiscal incentives to support investment in housing. The Act confers to
municipal councils the authority to approve 'action plans' which can amend,
update and substitute the official Master Plan of a city, specifying now sites



-54-
Annex B
Page 4 of 5
and subdivision regulations for land and infrastructure development. Only the
conversion of agricultural land into residential urs would require approval by
the financial administration. The Act also empowers Municipalities to issue
bonds (generated by the State) for land purchase or infrastructure development
and envisages central budget funding (through the voivodshiQa) to subsidize
municipal expenditures for those purposes. The main beneficiaries of the Act
are two social groups: i) those willing to purchase municipal bonds, and ii)
those belonging to the waiting list of a housing cooperatives who are ready to
leave it in order to build their own house. A controversial feature of the
bill war the proposed 50 percent deduction from the corporate or personal
taxable income for expenditures incurred in construction/extension/remodelling
or upgrading of homes. These fiscal recommendations have recently been removed
from this Act and included in the Personal Income Tax legislation instead.
3. The Act on Some Limited Real Property Riahts (Cooperative Property)
The general consensus among legislative groups working on Cooperative
Law is that i) the subject of housing cooperatives has to be considered in
conjunction with the Housing Act, still being drafted; ii) the future role of
housing cooperatives in the housing delivery system is not clear; and iii) the
current cooperative system presents many legal problems that need to be
addressed separately (ownership rights, waiting lists, cooperative candidates
pool). For these reasons, a separate Act on Some Limited Real Property Rights
has been introduced which would accord new forms of credit protection on the
ownership rights to cooperative flats, amending the relevant provisions of the
Civil Code and permitting issuance of individual mortgage loans to future
buyers of cooperative flats as well as the recovery and transfer of mortgaged
debt.
Some objections to this Act have been raised in the Senate pointing to
the alternative choice of converting the cooperative limited real property
rights into full, condominium-type, property rights.
4.   The Act abrocatino Restrictions on Eviction upon MortaaQe Foreclosure.
Approved by Parliament on October 3, 1991, as an Amendment to Artiele 65,
para. 5 of the current Housing Law of 1987, this measure introduced a highly
desirable change wheroby a person loosing his/her ownership or cooperative
right to a dwelling due to the foreclosure of a mortgage (hipoteka) is no
lonaer entitled to a replacement dwelling in case of eviction. This
represents a significant exception to the general rule prohibiting any
eviction unless another place of abode of adequate standard is provided. The
new ruling makes a mortgage an adequate security for a loan in Poland.
Without this provision mortgages were practically unenforceable.
5. Imolementina Reaulations of the Land Use and Exnrolriation Act
The full text of the Land Use and Expropriation Act, incorporating the
September 1990 Amendments and previous changes, has been issued in May 1991.
Currently, the following implementing regulations have been enacteds



-55-
Annex L
Page 5 of 5
(i) Regulations concerning sales and all form. of lease of land
belonging to municipalities or the State Treasurys general
procedur-o and condition. of disposal, related fees and payments;
(ii) Rules and procedures governing zgnino of areas for *ingle-family
housing, sub-division of land into building plots, transfer of
ownership or lease rights onto individual plots, related fees and
cost accounting procedures;
(iii) Regulations detailing appropriate methods for cost recovery of
infrastructure investments, focusing on procedures to prorate
infrastructure costs in the sale price of dwellings and forms of
possible finance assistance;
(iv)  Regulations for determining crices for the acauisition of
Municipal and State -ropertv.
6. The Soatial Plannina Act
The nint=h version of the Spatial Planning bill has been sent to the
Parliament. The main concern is that some measures in the current act lag
behind or are inconsistent with those contained in the new Land Use and
Expropriation Act and may continue to hinder, among other things, the
development of housing markets.
Two salient issues in the current legislation are being mingled out to
receive temporary solutions in the current situation. The first one is the
inflexibility of the local 2lans, their detailed contents and the cumbersome
procedures needed in case of changes. All municipalities have received an
advisory planning manual from MOSECs the recommended course of action is to
undertake a one-time revision of the existing master plan into a les detailed
one, based on the most general zoning scheme. The second issue is the process
required to obtain an investment permit, a lengthy and redundant three-step
procedure. The Anti-Crisis Act will bring some temporary solutions to both of
these issues.
7. The Buildina Code
The text of the new Building Code is not as yet available. It is
unclear whether past controversies over the set of regulations referred to as
,architectural normativeo', has been settled. These normatives were
originally issued by the Ministry in 1975. Apparently, many such regulations,
although inconsistent with current policies, have not been formally revoked,
while many municipal architects think that they no longer need to be adhered
to. This issue requires clarification as it may contribute inefficiencies and
cause delays in new construction projects.



-56-
ANNEX C-I
Page 1 of 3
ORDINANCE of the COUNCEL of MINISTERS
dated March 25, 1991
On the rules and procedures for financing the monies due to-the banks,
resulting from the capitalization of the interest on housing credits during
1991.
On the basis of article 19 of the Budget Bill for 1991 (published in the
Legal Gazette, No. 21, position 89), it is ruled as follows:
1.    This ordinance defines the terms and conditions of the use of budget
funds for financing the monies due to the banks resulting from the
capitalization of interest during 1991 on those housing credits, which have
been issued up to December 31, 1990, for the purposes of:
(i)   Construction of cooperative housing;
(Li)  Construction of single-family houses or apartments in multi-family
buildings for exclusive use of the owner of said apartments;
(iii) Rooftop additions and substantial extensions of existing
buildings;
(iv)  Remodelling of attics or conversion of other non-habitable spaces
into residential use; and
(v)   Major renovation, modernization and restoration of buildings and
habitable spaces, excluding current repair and minor remodelling
works.
All of the above shall be further called "credits".
2.    Budget funds may be used to finance interest capitalized on housing
credits according to the following rules:
(i)   The amount of monthly capital and interest payment arising from
the debtor's obligation to the bank under the loan terms is to be
determined at a level not lower than the amount calculated as the
product of the number of square meters of the usable area of the
unit concerned (with the reservations of points (v) and (vi).
This amount cannot be lower than the monthly payment due on
account of capital. Apart from the afore-mentioned conditions the
monthly payment amount can be determined individually for each
beneficiary.



-57-
ANNEX C-I
Page 2 of 3
(ii) The amount, referred to in point i), is first credited on account
of capital repayment;
(iii) The debtor has the right to capitalize any additional interest
which he owes to the bank and that is not covered by the amount
specified in point i);
(iv) The standard payment is the quotient of 50% of the average monthly
wage in the six main branches of the national economy and the
standard usable area of an apartment, which is of 60 square
meters. The standard payment is announced quarterly by the
Minister of Spatial Economy and Construction, based on the
information supplied by the President of the Main Office of
Statistics about the level of the average wage the last quarter.
(v)   In the case of loans granted for individual housebuilding the
amount, discussed in point i), is set as a) no lower than 25% of
monthly income of the household of the debtor; b) no less than the
product of the usable area of the building in m2 and the standard
payment; and c) no less than the monthly capital installment.
This amount is settled on the basis of the quarterly statement on
the monthly income of the debtor, submitted by the debtor before
the end of the month prior to the beginning of a new quarter;
(vi) When the monthly burden of the payment of interest and capital
exceeds 25% of the monthly houeehold income of the debtor, the
debtor may negotic;te the payment amount individually. The
negotiated amount should be 25% of the monthly household income,
but no less than the amount of monthly payment due on accoant of
capital. This amount is calculated on the basis of the quarterly
statement of the monthly household income of the debtor, submitted
by the debtor before the end of the month prior to the beginning
of a new quarter. This statement should be verified by the local
Social Assistance.
3.    The financing of capitalized interest by the banks, under the rules
specified in Chapter 2, can be made as follows:
(i)   100% of the monies due to the bank for the capitalization of
interest on investment credits, after the construction has been
completed; and
(ii) 40% of the monies due to the bank for the interest on investment
credits, when the project is under construction, up to the amount
specified in the Budget Bill for 1991.
4.    The terms and conditions for the financing of capitalized interest and
for the authorization to collect corresponding payments from the debtors,
financing will be specified in an agreement between the Minister of Spatial



-58-
ANNEX C-I
Page 3 of 3
Economy and Conetruction and the Minister of Finance with the President of the
National Bank of Poland, acting on the behalf of the banks interested.
S.    This ordinance comes into force on the day of signature, with
effectiveness starting on January 1, 1991.
President of the Council of Ministers
Jan Krzysztof Bielecki



-59-
ANNEX C-II
Page 1 of 2
ORDINANCE of the COUNCIEL of NMNISTERS
dated October 1, 1991
Concerning the rules and procedures for the financing of interest on
housing loans which has been capitalized by the banks.
On the basis of Chapter 3, para. 2, point 2 of th*,Act of December 28,
1989 on the Regulation of All Credit Relations/Journal of Laws 074, pos. 440,
it is ruled as follows:
1.
1.1   This ordinance defines the rules and procedures for the financing with
State Budget funds of the amounts due to banks on account of interest
capltalized on loans contracted to satisfy personal housing needs by means of:
1)    purchase or construction of a single-family house or an apartment
in a multi-family building, which is being occupied for the first
time;
2)    addition or expansion of an existing house;
3)    renovation of attic space, drying space or any other non-dwelling
space in order to create dwelling space; and
4)    renovation or modernization of dwelling units or houses, except
current maintenance or renovation of apartments.
1.1   The costs of construction of dwelling units or houses, mentioned in
para. 1, point 1, include the cost of construction of wells and septic tanks.
2.
2.1   The State Budget may finance the amounts due to the banks for interest
capitalized in the cases when the loan, described in Chapter 1, was granted
under the following conditions:
1)    the amount of the loan does not exceed 36 times the verified
monthly income of the household of the borrower, calculated for
the previous quarter; not more, however, than 80% of the cost of
the project described in Chapter 1;
2)    there is a mortgage collateral on the loan, established acording
to separate rules;
3)    the borrower will designate for the repayment of the loan,
together with interest, no less than 25% of the monthly income of



-60-
ANNEX C-II
Page 2 of 2
hia household over the whole period of repayment - with the
reservation of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Chapter 3.
2.2   The conditions specified in para. 1 do not apply to houaing loans
contracted before the date on which this Ordinance comes into force.
3.
3.1   The first installment, together with due interest, is defined as no less
than 25% of monthly household income of the borrower during the previous
quarter. The amount of payments shall be adjusted quarterly, using the
National Wage Index (index of the increase of nominal value of salaries in the
6 basic branches of national economy).
3.2   The Borrower may request the bank to capitalize the interest that he
owes and is not able to repay with the amount decribed in para. 1.
4.
The interest accrued on loans granted under the conditions specified in
Chapters 2 and 3, and capitalized by the banks, is temporarily financed by the
State Budget in the amount of:
1)    no less than 70% of the monies due to the bank for unpaid interest
on loans granted for projects which have been completed: the
amount shall be specified in an agreement as discussed in para. 2.
The Borrower is obliged to repay the amount, together with interest, to the
State Budget through the bank, which granted the loan.
S.
The mode of repayment, resulting from the financing of capitalized
interest; as well as the authorization to ccept from Borrower's monies due for
the capitalized interest, are defined in an agreement between the Minister of
Spatial Economy and Construction and the Minister of Finance with the
President of the National Bank of Poland, acting on behalf of the bank's
interest.
6.
The ordinance comes into force on the day it is published.



-61-                              ANNEX D-I
Page 1 of 4
RESOLUTION No. 2
OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF SHAREHOLDERS
of the Bank for the Development of Housing construction S.A.
dated April 25, 1992
On the basis of Chapter 19, par. 2 p. 10 of the Charter of BUDBANK, General
Assembly of Shareholders approves the enclosed Mortgage Fund Bylaws for the
purpose of performing the tasks resulting from the function of BUDBANRK S.A. as
a banking institution on-lending funds designated for the financing of housing
construction in Poland.
This Resolution becomes effect've on the day of signing the Loan Agreement
Housing Project) between the Republic of Poland and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank).
Chairman of
the General Assembly of Shareholders
ANNEX TO RESOLUTION No. 2.
THE MORTGAGE FUND
BYLAWS
Article 1. Creation of the Fund
1.1   The Mortgage Fund (hereinafter "Fund") is a department of the BUDBANK
S.A. created on the basis of the Resolution of the General Meeting of
Shareholders of the Bank for the Development of Housing Construction S.A.
(hereinafter "BUDBANK S.A."), dated April 25, 1992.
1.2   BUDBANK S.A. is a banking institution established according to the
Polish banking law dated January 31, 1989 (Journal of Laws No 4, item 21) and
is a legal entity. The scope of activities of Budbank S. A. is limited to on-
lending to other banks, in the form of loans, domestic and foreign funds
designated for housing financing.
1.3   The Fund holds funds designated for housing financing in performance of
the provisions of the Loan agreement between the Republic of Poland and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank)
(hereinafter "Agreement"); as well as all other agreements entered into by the
Government of Poland with international financial institutions and foreign
governments. The use of resources transferred to the Fund and the activity of
the fund must be in compliance with the provisions of the Fund's Operational
Manual prepared for the performance of the Agreement.



-62-                            ANNEX D-I
Page 2 of 4
Article 2. The Purnoss of the Nrto_te Fund
2.1  The purposes of the Mortgage Fund are to:
(a)   provide loans (hereinafter "loans") to eligible participating
banks (hereinafter "Lenders") to be used, in conjunction with lenders'
funds, to create residential construction loans and home mortgage loans
that are consistent with the requiroments of the Agreement;
(b)   stimulate private housing construction based on a consistent
system of construction and mortgage loansl
(c)   provide applied technical assistance to Lenders on lending
practices and the implementation of private construction and mortgage
loan systems, including assistance to Lenders in their technical
training to builders and homebuyers on borrower obligations.
2.2  To asoist in meeting its purposes, the Fund will:
(a)   establish and promote appropriate checks and balances and orderly,
controlled management of funds and transactions;
(b)   establish legal requirements to protect private ownership of real
property and clearly stated and enforceable borrower obligations;
(c)   establish appropriate credit standards and credit oversight
policies and operational practices and controls to ensure regular and
timely repayment of residential construction and home mortgage loans;
and
(d)   establish interest rates meeting prudent pricing principles on all
Fund Loans.
2.3   The Fund shall be guided in all its policies and decisions by the
purposes and objectives set forth in these Bylaws.
Article 3. Provisions Relatins to Loans
3.1 Use of resources. The resources provided to the Fund and its facilities
shall be used exclusively in accordance with the purpose of the Fun'!.
3.2   Conditions on which the Fund may make Loans.  The Fund will establish
requirements and procedures ensuring investment quality lending that must be
met by Lenders in order for construction loans and home mortgage loans to be
eligible for Loans. Fund Loans are subject to the following conditions:
(a)   No construction or mortgage loan li-ued by the participating
Lender shall exceed 7S% of the respective value of the property. This
value is subject to terification and may be determined to be below the
appralsal proposod by a credit appllcant,
(b)   The Lenders will be responsible for all credit rlsk on
construction and home mortgage loans.



-63-                               ANNEX D-I
Page 3 of 4
(c) The Fund Loans must have a flrot lien on the actual real estate
and improvements financed by the respective construction or mortgage
loans.
3.3   Interest rate on Fund Loan.  The Fund's lending rate shall cover its
cost of funds; the administrative costs sufficient to ensure quality lending,
servicing and loan management, Bank's profit and risk allowances. The Fund's
lending rate shall not be less than the prime interest rate established by the
Polish central bank.
3.4   Interest rates on Construction and Mortaaae Loans. Loan contracts
entered into by the Fund shall be made in accordance with the following
provisions:
(a) Construction loans shall be made with a variable interest rate,
where the rate, terms, and schedules of adjustment are set in the
construction loan contract. Interest payments during construction shall
be capitallzed and payable at the maturity of the principal of the loan.
(b) Mortgage loans shall be Dual Index Mortgages. The indices used
will be a wage index and a prlce index.
(c) The intereat rates on the construction and mortgage loans shall be
sufficient to cover, at a min$mum, the following factors: credit or
self-insured mortgage risk; loan origination costs; cost of funds;
administrative or servicing costs; reserve requirements; and Lender
profit.
Article 4. Provislons Relatine to enders.
4.1 Selection of Lenders. The Fund will establish criteria defining the
qualifications of its Lenders. The Fund's criteria will relate to Lenders'
financial status and to lenders' ability to originate, service, and manage
construction and mortgage loans in accordance with investment quality lending
and servicing and generally accepted accounting principles and methods. The
Fund can approve Lenders for construction lending, for home mortgage lending,
or for both construction and home mortgage lending, depending upon the
Lender's qualifications.
4.2   Inelioible Lenders. The following Lenders will be ineligible to
participate in the Fund programs:
(a) BUDBANK S.A.,
(b) Any person/entity exercising more than 10% of the votes at the
General Assembly of Shareholders of the BUDBANK S.A.
4.3   Suoervision of Lender.  The Fund will establish procedures and standards
for the periodic audit of Lenders' activities involving Fund resources in
accordance with sound accounting principles.



-64-                               ANNEX D-I
Page 4 of 4
Article S. *Fund Governance and Organization
5.1   The Fund shall be governed by the Board of BUDBANK S.A. which consLts
of, aside from the President and Vice-President, the Chief Financial Officer,
General Counsel, Banking Specialist, Chief operating Officer and other persons
appointed by the Council of BUDBANK S.A.
5.2   The Council of BUDBANK S.A. supervises the Fund in the scope defined in
the Charter of BUDBANK S.A. Specifically, the Council:
(a)   defines the general rules governing the Fund's activities;
(b)   defines the rules for management of the funds transferred to the
Fund at the time of approval of quarterly and annual financial
plans prepared by the Board of BUDBANK S.A.;
(c)   receives and analyses annual results of the audit of the Fund,
performed by an independent auditors' firm.
5.3   The President of the Board of BUDBANK S.A. manages the overall activity
of the Fund and is responsible for the Fund's management and administration,
marketing and relations with outside institutions, issues internal orders and
instructions; manuals, guidelines and other rules governing the Fund's
activity.
5.4   The Chief Financial Officer of the Fund is responsible for internal
financial control, reconciliation and reporting, including the compliance with
requirements relating to submission of applications and disbursement of funds.
S.5   The General Counsel is responsible for all legal issues, as well as
cooperation with legislative and government bodies in respect to regulations
pertaining to housing finance.
5.6   The Banking Specialist is responsible for administration relating to
Lenders; rules and functioning of the Lenders selection and approval system as
well as for compliance with banking and foreign currency laws.
5.7   The Chief Operating Officer is responsible for the administration of
banking services, functioning of the Fund's office as well as the development
and functioning of operations systems.
5.8   The Fund has a separate credit committee - Fund Credit Committee - which
consists of: President of BUDBANK S.A., Chief Financial Officer, General
Counsel, Banking Specialist, Chief operating Officer and other persons
appointed by the President of the Board of BUDBANK S.A. The Credit Committee
is responsible for the approval of Lenders, Fund Loans and Credits and for the
evaluation of financial results of the Lenders. The Credit Committee cannot
assign its duties to any other person or entity.
Article 6. Amendment to the Bylaws
The Bylaws may be amended by a resolution of the BUDBANK S.A. General Assembly
of Shareholders or at the motion of the President of the BUDBANK S.A.
submitted for the approval of the Board of the BUDBANK S.A.



-65-                            ANNEX D-II
Page 1 of 4
RESOLITION No. 3
OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF SHAREHOLDERS
of the Bank for the Development of Housing Construction
dated April 25, 1992
on the basis of Chapter 19, par. 2 point 10 of the Charter the General
Assembly of Shareholders approves the decision of BUDBANK S.A. to undertake
the function of on-lending domestic and foreign resources for the financing of
housing construction, under terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
"BUDBANK S.A. as an institution on-lending financial resources designated for
the financing of housing construction"
Specifically, the Assembly resolves as follows:
1.    The statutory scope of activities of the BUDBANK S.A. is limited to on-
lending to other banks, in the form of credits designated for the financing of
housing construction, funds coming from:
(a)   funds designated for housing credits under the Loan Agreement
(Housing Project) between the Republic of Poland and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World
Bank) (hereinafter "Agreement")
(b)   funds designated for housing credits under the housing Guarantee
Program of the United States Agency for International Developmekt,
(c)   funds coming from other domestic and foreign sources,
under the condition that such on-lending shall be performed according to the
provisions of the Mortgage Fund operations Manual, prepared for the
performance of the Agreement.
2.    Activities of the BUDBANK S.A., other than those set forth in par. 1,
shall be gradually phased out, in the following respect:
(a)   BUDBANK S.A. shall not originate any new loans, guarantees or
other loan transactions for new clients, from the date this
Resolution becomes effective,
(b)   the final deadline for entering into new commitments with existing
clients is two years after the Resolution becomes effective;
(c)   the outstanding portfolio to be reduced by at least one third each
year to achieve the final elimination of all other activities
within a three years period after the Resolution;
(d)   no new accounts shall be opened from the date the Resolution
becomes effective.
3.    The use of liquid funds of the BUDDANK S.A. shall be limited to deposits
with the National Bank of Poland, purchase of State Treasury Bonds or Short-
and medium-term investments guaranteed by the Government of Poland.



-66-                            ANNEX D-II
Page 2 of 4
4.    The resources of BUDBANK S.A. coming from customers' deposits shall not
be used for tho financing of long term mortgages.
5.   BUDBANK S.A. shall maintain separate accounts for the activities
specified in par. 12 and for "other activitLes".
6.    The Councll of BUDBANK S.A. shall consiat of the reprosentatLves oft the
Minister of Spatial Economy and Construction, Minister of Finance, Housing
Finance Project Office and commercial banks (Lender.) desLgnated by the
Minister of spatial Economy and Construction.
The Resolution becomes effective on the date it io signel.
Chairman of the
General Assembly of Shareholders
ANNEX TO RESOLUTION No. 3
BUDBANK S.A.
AS A BANKING INSTITUTION ON-LENDING
funds designated for the
financing of housing construction
I.    Creation of the Mortgage Fund
1.    The Board of BUDBANK S.A. shall create a department of the Bank, called
the Mortgage Fund (hereinafter "Fund"), as a separate organizatLonal entity of
the BUDBANK S.A. The Fund will hold all resources of BUDBANK S.A. designated
for housing credits. The scope of activlties of the Fund will include all
aspects of on-lending domestic and forelgn reuources designated for housing
construction.
2.    The Mortgage Fund shall functlon according to rules set forth in the
Fund Operations Manual, approved by a separate resolution of the General
Assembly of Shareholders.
II.   The task of the Fund
1.    The Fund shall extend loans to eligible commercial banks.  Based on
these loans, the banks shall extend medium-term constructlon sub-loans and
long-term mortgage sub-loans. The terms of these sub-loans shall be
consistent with the provisions of the Mortgage Fund Operatlons Manual for the
execution of the Loan Agreement (Housing Project) between the Republic of
Poland and the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
World Bank).



-67-                             ANNEX D-II
Page 3 of 4
2.   B0th th  BUDANK S.A. and the Housing Finance Project Office in Warsaw
shall be responsible for informing the comercial banks on the terms and
conditions for the housing credits, established by the Fund.
III. The functioning of the Fund.
1.   The Fund shall be a department of 3UDDANK  .A. The Fund shall prepare
separate, periodical estimates of expenditures, income and results of its
activities and submit reports on its performance to the Board and Council of
the BUDBANK S.A. (hereinafter "Bank Council").
2.   The offices of BUDDANK S.A. shall - according to their scope of duties -
participate in the implementation of foreign programs of housing finance, on
the basis of internal fees, included in the fees received by BUDBANK S.A.
under the provisions of III-4.
3.   BUDBANK S.A. chall have separate accounts for each of the foreign
sources of financing, including the World Bank and the United States Agency
for International Developmnt.
4.   For the servicing of housing credits, BUDBANK S.A. shall receive a fee
covering a respective amount of own costs and profit in an amount specified in
the agreement between the BUDBANK 8.8. and the Ministry of Spatial Economy and
Construction.
IV.  Technical assistance for BUDBANK S.A.
1.   BUDBANK S.A. shall:
(a) organize training for the eligible commercial banks
(b)  participate in the creation of information systems enabling the
implementation of financing programs
(c) cooperate in the implementation of financing programs
(d)  utilize the information collected in the course of permanent
monitoring to increase the effectiveness of the financing
programs.
2.   To enable proper executions of the above functions, the activities of
BUDBANK S.A. shall be supported by long-term foreign advisors and Polish
specialists.   BUDBANK S.A. shall also utilize the services of short-term
consultants, whose work shall be coordinated with that of the long-term
advisors. BUDBANK s.a. shall also be strengthened by the supply of equipment
(especially computer hardware) and software which will enable the proper
organization of program management.
3.   The activity of long-term advisors will be coordinated by the Fund
Director in cooperation with the Manager of the Housing Finance Project
Office. The foreign advisors shall strive - together with Polish specialist.
- toward the preparation and implementation of programs both in BUDBANK s.A.
and in eligible comercial banks. They will also try to broaden the scope of
the housing finance programs through increasing the number of commercial
banks, investors-developers and local authorities eligible to participate in
market-based housing finance progrms.



-68-                               ANNEX D-II
Page 4 of 4
4.    It is estimated, that the long term advisors of BUDBANK S.A. shall have
the following areas of activity:
(a)   operations of the bank,
(b)   reporting and monitoring system,
(c)   credit policy for long-term mortgage loans,
(d)   credit policy for medium-term construction loans,
(s)   financial analysis,
(f)   legal aspects
5.    Technical assistance for BUDBANK S.A., described in par, IV 2, 3 and 4
shall be financed with the external resources managed by the Manager of the
Housing Finance Project Office, within the amounts set forth in the periodical
cost estimates prepared according to par. III-I.
V.    Mode of implementation.
1.    The Bank Council and the Board shall implement the resolutions of the
General Assembly of Shareholders on time, the final deadline being October 31,
1992.



-69-                                          ANNEX D-II
Flow Chart
HOUSING PROJECT: FLOW OF FUNDS
WB Repayment
GOP                            -3WORLD BANK
5 yrs Grace period
State Budget         Loan Repayment                          Loan Account
(in Zlotys)         ot s _        - _   - _   -                  (in USS)
|         Z~~lotys equivalent, 
MOSEC                                i                           NBP
Sector Budget                           l                     Special Account
(in Zlotys)                            l                         (in USS)
_   |   |   ImS tial                             Initial
BUDBANK
Deposit                             Deposit
Project Account
40% of Subloans           (in Zlotys)         40% of Subloans
Participating                                                 Participating
Banks                                                         Banks
15% of                                                          15% of
investment Cost                                                    Sale Price
20% of Subloan                                                20% of Mortgage
RpEntsC 6                  vestment Cost              75% Sale Pce                  Rpmnt 
Construction                                                    P ome
Borrowers                    Down payments                       Buyers
Dvlprs/Contretrs
Cover 25% of Sale Price
25% of                                                          25% of
Investment Costs                                                   Sale Price



-70-
ANNEX E
~   fPage   7 f
REPUBLIC OF POLAND AND WORLD BANK
THE MORTGAGE FUND
POLICY AND GENERAL OPERATING MANUAL
February 14, 1992



-71-                      ANNEX E
Page 2 of 7
C0N1TENTS
hitroducdon
Deflnitions and Abbreviations
1.       Overview of the Mortgage Fund
1.1     General Description of the Mortgage Fund
1.2     Objectives of the Mortgage Fund
1.3     Institutional Structure of the Mortgage Fund
1.3.1    Relationship to the national government
1.3.2    Relationship to the banking sector
1.3.3    Role of Housing Finance Project Office (HFPO)
1.4     Uses of Credits
1.4.1    New construction
1.4.2    Renovation Projects
1.4.3    Construction of commercial space
1.4.4    sand improvement projects
1.4.5    Home improvements
1.4.6    Purchase of a newly built house or flat
1.5     General Policies
1.5.1   Interest rate policy
1.5.2    Truth-in-lending policy
1.5.3    Financial policies
1.5.4    Technical and design policies
1.5.5    Legal policies
1.5.6    Audit policies
2.       Flow of Funds and Institutional Responsibilffles
2.1      Flow of Funds to and from the Mortgage Fund
2.1.1   Inter-Institutional relationships
2.1.2    Terms of borrowing from the Mortgage Fund
2.1.3    Reporting requirements
2.1.4    Conversion of multi-family construction sub-loans to
mortgage sub-loans
2.1.5    Conversion of single-family construction sub-loans to
mortgage sub-loans



-72-
ANNEX E
Page 3 of 7
2.2      Bank participation in Fund Programs
2.2.1    Eligibility requirements
2.2.2    Responsibilities of participating banks
2.2.2.1   Review of loan applications
2.2.2.2   Loan approval authority
2.2.2.3   Cerdfication of compliance with Fund
requirements
2.2.2.4   Disbursement of loan proceeds
2.2.2.5   Monitoring the progress of construction sub-
projects
2.2.2.6   Loan Management and Mortgage
Servicing
2.2.2.7   Reporting requirements
3.       Construction Credit Program
3.1      Overview of the Program
3.2      General Eligibility Criteria
3.2.1    Eligible sub-projects
3.2.2    Ineligible sub-projects
3.2.3    Eligible beneficiaries
3.2.4    Ineligible beneficiaries
3.2.5    Maximum unit size
3.2.6    Sales of units to individuals
3.2.7    Public/private partnerships
3.2.8    Consistency with Fund policies and
objectives
3.2.9    Competitive Bidding
3.3      Financial Requirements
3.3.1    Definition of total sub-project costs
3.3.2    Land status and costs
3.3.2.1   Eigible land costs
3.3.2.2  Ineligible land costs
3.3.3    Cost recovery and sales price
3.3.4    Maximum loan amount
3.3.4.1   Multi-family, renovation and land
improvement sub-projects
3.3.4.2   Construction of single-family houses
3.3.5    Types of equity
3.3.6    Eligible infrastructure expenses
3.3.7    Presentation of construction costs
3.3.8    Limitation on the square meter cost of construction
3.3.9    Financial plan
3.3.10   Sale of housing units and improved lots
3.3.11   Financing plan for commercial space



-73-                        ANNEX E
Page 4 of 7
3.4      Legal Requirements
3.4.1    Local regulations and services
3.4.2    CoUlateral requirements
3.4.3    Collateral not to be excessive
3.5      Credit Terms and Conditions
3.5.1   Interest rate
3.5.2    Repayment and maximum loan term
3.5.3    Recapitalization of unpaid interest
3.5.4    Repayment of construction sub-loans to the Fund
3.6      Sub-Project Approval Procedures
3.6.1    Submission of application and supporting information
3.6.2    Current values
3.6.3    Credit analysis, review and approval of applications
3.6.4    Commitment letter and commitment fee
3.6.5    Sub-loan Agreement
3.7      Borrowing from the Mortgage Fund
3.7.1    Maximum pardcipation of the Fund in construction sub-
projects
3.7.2    Terms and conditions for borrowing from the Fund
3.7.3    Disbursement of proceeds from the Fund
3.8      Sub-project Construction and Implementation
3.8.1    Drawdowns of construction sub-loans in stages
3.8.2    Equity invested first
3.8.3    Participating Bank Disapproval of advances
3.7.4    Fund Disapproval of Advances
3.7.5   Inflation index
3.9      Supervision of Construction
3.9.1    Responsibilites
3.9.2    Frequency of pardcipating bank supervision
3.9.3    Contents of construction progress reports
3.9.4    Construction standards
3.9.4.1   Codes
3.9.4.2   Material standards
3.9.4.3   Schedules
3.10     Sub-project Modifications
3.11     Default
3.12     Escrow Accounts
3.13     Performance Bonds



-74-                      ANNEX E
Page 5 of 7
4.7      Loan Servicing, Late Payments and Default
4.7.1    Responsibilities of the participating bank
4.7.2    Date of first monthly payment
4.7.3    Late payments and penalties
4.7.4    Pardil payments
4.7.5    Reconciliation
4.8      Default Management
4.8.1    Notification to beneficiary of late payment
4.8.2    Interview with beneficiary
4.8.3.   Notification of intent to take legal action
4.8.4    Default
S.       Accounting Requirements (to meet World Bank standards/to be defined
in
kegotiations)
5.1      Fund Accounting Requirements (see above)
5.2      Participating Bank Accounting Requirements (see above)
6.       Audit Requirements (to meet World Bank standards/to be
defined in negotiations)
6.1      Fund Audit Requirements (see above)
6.2      Participating Bank Audit Requirements (see above)
7.       Legal Issues (to come)
7.1      Precedence of Lien (subject to contractual agreement)
7.2      Precedence of Lien for Construction Sub-Loans (subject to
contractual agreement)
7.3      Precedence of Lien for Mortgage Sub-Loans (subject to contractual
agreement)
7.4      Property Tax Payments on Construction Sub-Loans
7.5      Property Tax Payments on Mortgage Sub-Loans



-         -75-                      ANNEX E
Page 6 -of 7
4.       Mortgage Credit Program
4.1      Overview of the Program
4.2      General Eligibility Criteria
4.2.1    Eligible beneficiaries
4.2.2    Cooperatives and cooperative members
4.3      Eligible Properties
4.3.1    Maximum unit size
4.3.2    New construction financed by the Mortgage Fund
4.3.3    Other new construction
4.3.4    Home improvements
4.3.5   Ineligible properties
4.4      Credit Terms and Conditions
4.4.1    General description of the Dual Index Mortgage (IM)
4.4.2   Interest rate
4.4.3    Monthly payment
4.4.3.1   Fee simple property
4.4.3.2   Perpetual ground lease property
4.4.4    Defining household income
4.4.5    Changes in household compositior or income
4.4.6    Maximum amount of credit
4.4.7    Adjustments to monthly payment
4.4.8    Application of monthly payments
4.4.9    Repayment period
4.4.10   Pre-payments
4.4.11 Collateral requhi tments
4.4.12   Collateral not to be excessive
4.5      Credit Approval Procedures
4.5.1    Submission of application
4.5.2    Submission of Purchase Contract
4.5.3    Verification of household income and down payment
4.5.4    Appraisal of property value
4.5.5    Bank review of applicadon
4.5.6    Letter of commitment for mortgage sub-loan
4.6      Borrowing from the Mortgage Fund
4.6.1    Maximum participation of the Fund in mortgage sub-
loans
4.6.2    Terms and conditions for borrowing from the Fund
4.6.3    Disbursement of proceeds from the Fund



-76-
ANNEX E
Page 7 of 7
Aexes (in process)
1:       Sample Reporting Forms for the Housing Finance Project
A.       Quarterly Reports of the Mortgage Fund
B.       Advances for Construction Sub-Loans
C.       Advances for Mortgage Sub-Loans
2:       Sample Reporting Forms for Participating Banks
3:       Sample Credit Application Forms
A.       Application for Construction Sub-Loans (Multi-Family)
B.       Application for Construction Sub-Loans (Single-family)
C.       Mortgage Sub-Loan Application
4:       Sample Forms for Participating Banks
A.       Letter of Conditional Approval for Construction Sub-Loan
B.       Letter of Commitment for Construction Sub-Loan
C.       Loan Agreement for Construction Sub-Loan
D.       Contract for Purchase of Newly Built House or Flat
E.       Letter of Commitment for Mortgage Sub-Loan
F.       Bank Cerdfication
G.       Request for Advance of Construction Sub-Loan
H.       Report on Construction Progress
I.       Commitment for Take-Out Financing
5:       Pracedures for Securing a Collateral Interest in Real Property
6:       Guidelines for Sub-Project Design



-77-                      AZIIU  F
Page 1 of 14
HOUSING FINANCE PROJECr
OF THE3
GOVURNENT OF POLAND AND WORLD BANI
APPLICATION FOR CONSTRUCTION CREDIT (MULTI-FAMILY)
This form must be completed by all applicants for credits for new construction
or completion of multi-family housing projects. Multi-family projects include
flats, apartment buildings,'rowhouses. duplexes, semi-detached units, rooftop
additions, and projects consisting of more than one single family house. To be
eligible fo. ie astruction credits, all projects must comply with the financial,
design, technical. legal and competitive bidding requirements of the Housing
Finance Project.   -
This application should be submitted to your local bank and the Housing Finance
Project Office (HFPO). Additional information may be required by your bank
or the HFPO. Final approval of your credit application is the responsibility of
the local bank. If your total project costs exceed Z 28.5 billion. the HFPO must
also approve your credit.application.
As part of this application, you must submit the following documents:
1.    Cost Analysis for Housing Projecu
2.    Breakdown of Cou of Constrcdon Per Square Meter
3.    Cash Flow Projection for Housing Project
4.    Worksheet Calcuating Loa and Interest Payments
S.    Workaheec Pro-Ratidng  terest Payments and Profit to Determine
Finl Sales Price Per Unit
6.    Worksheet Ratio Analysis for Housing Pojects
7.    Attachment Market Analyis
S.    Attachment Certifcation of Complaceo with Competitive Bidding
Requireents
i d th bahv ace
afteehd tn tl;S appIleni4aes
9.    A map (21O30mm or 420400mm) showng the location of the
housing project to the citys center.
10.   A site pln (210W0m  or 420:0mm) showing the general desg
of the proposed project.
IL    A site pla illustrating road acess and infrsctue, Inlding water,
sewage, gas, heig and electrcity.
12.   Attachmens Legal Desecption of Land
13.   Attachmenct Evidence of Land Ownesip or Perapetal Ground 
Lease
For More informatn   ftmt
Housing Finance Project Office
ul. Swietokrzyska 11/21 - pok. 535
00.950 Warszawa
telephone: 26-82-09, lub 20-03-21 wcw. 2153; telefax: 20401-80
1



-78-                  ~~~~~~ANN~EX F
* .  -78-                     Pagie 2 of i4
Appllicattion for Costructinn Credits (Multi-FaLmilyc)
Project name:                   ._.
Town/location:       _
Population:
Applicant:              -
Address
-t-elephone
(Code)
Signature
Name:
Position:
Date:
CoGntaclt person formoreinformatinn
Name
Position
-relephone:     P:                D:-
Name:
Contact person:
Address               ___
lelephone
(Code)
Have you already submitted this application to the bank?    Yes    No



-79-                                 ANNE  F
3.    Information on Land Omwnership                                         Page 3 of 14
The lad for the project is werIIv:
-   Privately owned (fee smple)
Propery of the gms
-Owned by a cooperative (fee simple)
-   Leased by a coopentive from the gmiBa
Other_
The land for the project will:
Sold to the applicat or investor (fee simple)
-   Leased to the applicant or investor
;     Maintained in its current status
Other.
ij' the lead Is curiently ewned (not leased) by a cooperative:
When did the cooperative buy the land?    t.
The cooperative purchaid the land from:
Private owner
-Gains
-   Other:
Did the cooperative purchase the land with ius own resources and at market price
at the dme of purchase, or was the purchase subsidized by the government?
Purchased at full market price with its own resources
-   -Subsidized by the government
Other.
What was the purchase price per square meter? Z -
What is your estimate of the curent market value per square meter? ZI 1
For all projects:
Describe the curret status of the land, and provide a detailed epanation of the
tertus and conditions under which the land will be made available for the
consrudon of the proposed project.
Attach tO thAi applicatioA:
1. Legal description Of the land
2. Evidence of land ownership or perpetual ground lesse



ANNEX F
Information on the Applicant                                        Page 4 of 14
The applicant is a (check one):
Private company or partnership
Date established:
Principal business:
Public enterprise
Date established:
Principal business:
Coopera  e
Date established:
Number of members:
Gmina
Population:
Other government or public institution
Describe: 
Foreign joint venture company
Date established:
Principal business:
% Polish interest:
-Foundation and other son-profit orgaDJztion
Date established:
Other.
2.    General Project Description
This application is for:
New construction
-    Project completion
How many units wil be constructed?
How mny buildings will be constructed?
On the average, how many floors will each building have?
How far from the center of the city is the project located?   _km.
Describe any other importat physical or design chaacteristics of your project:
For applicatiouu for eredit to f In ish conAtruction:
When did construction start?
When was construction stopped?
Why was construction stopped?
What percentage of construction do you estimate has already been completed?  %
Describe what has already been constructed:                                            (



ANNEX F
-81-                                Page 5 of 14
S.Schedule
Give a proposed date to statt construction. and how long it will take to finish
constrection. Provide a detailed description of each stage of construction.
(Attach an aIddtionl page, If necessary.)
6.    Information on Construction
Describe what type of construction technology will be used (e.g., masonry, large
panel, itd.), and identify any special problems with the construction site. (Attach
an additional page, if necessary.)
7.    Off-site or Primary Infrastructure Requirements
Provide infomation on the project's infrastructure requiremnats. Is the project site
couently seived by gas, water, sewage and electricity? What is the anticipated cost
of brtiging primary infrastnscture to the project site, and who will pay these
expenses?



-82-
ANNEX F
Page 6 of 14
4.   Project Management
Describe how the project will be managed. Specifically, answer the following
questions:
*-     Who will have overall responsibility for managing the project's
implementation?
*0     Wil a general contractor be hired?
WiU a construction manager be hired?
Will subcontractors be hired?
a
Provide information on the background and experience of the project's managers,
general contractor and subcbntractors. U they are not yet identified, explain what
steps wiU be taken to ensure sound management of the project. (Attach an
additional page. if necessary.)
Definiions of 
Ceal Coat atuor The Genea Cotnactor eaten into a contract with the owner (investor) for
the constroueon of the project. and takes tU responsibility for its completion. The GoneraI
Contracor mW eonte into subcoawtecs with others to pedorm speefc tusl or phas of the projecL
Subcontractor: A Subcontrator eaten into a conotrac with the Generva Contractor to perform a
specific tsh or complete a specfic phoe of the projeeL
Cosasrctios Manager:  O  larp  and complex projects. the owner (investor) may hire-a
Construction Manager to supervis all constuction activities including the neotiation of all contracts
for constcion wor  The Consucdon Manager act as an agent for the owner. The Constrution
Manager's baWc services include coordination and oversight of all construetion activities, budgeting
and cost control review and apprval of all subeontracts. and the analysis and approval of all increases
in cou and changes in the project's plan. The Constuetion Manager approves or disapproves of all
reques for payment. inspects field work. and generally expedites masers while serving as a liaison
between the owner and arehitect



-83-                                      AMN= F
Page 7 of 14
Atadhmta  to Application fog CoastMctios Credit (Multi-Family)
Market Analyis
Project name:
Town/location:
Applicant:
ARl p1*5UI     m  be abe   o         the l..l bak's asidem  teta will S. sufleast deoint wso i tke
hoousig mana  a:sat eanrmmsnd sue priSce  Two gaiallUs for asesngf inats demasd am
I'     Tbotis a piodeatflad u        uatb o she   imw  qualit to a mortpp 1aa. and who
~~~~~~W*WW8 m,    topW  ft_  1-_ X e  i  tMaa  aafeop lonfoer
Wuh she qual i" *a   emad sal pclc ofmbo uuu: or
2'     Tat is asehsmp of housn  saw lab comm*  doe for ailes wi housold inomes
whIc quali dhrs tt ssapp loam quvea    so ln m tha 70   t  esdma*d sad
pine of theba"uis
Is is th locl bO!eas wuabUityto  asag a pojes mku* bliqy. au  the bek asy ege
amber e or suadd ftot demhinl maha demnd
T*1*aataeshinVwtetbe.F4 1488an Jo Caeaauroeien Credie (Muti-bFamily) may be submitted Witc
a market 488ld*" is submitted dad appraved. Atsek addidaden  peage, if aeeessarp.



-84-                                     ANr F
Page 8 of 14
8.   Financing Requirements
Tate I Ps.nieet Caate
Constructio                                   % of total
Land (cost, value or lease fees)        _     % of total
_ _ _rastructure                            %   of total
____________      Preparauon expenses                            % of total
TOTAL                                    100 %
Incu  o  is tine u of the following 1) the puchse price of the lad. if she land Is not aleady
ownd by an invetor is the projec but sms be puchset; 2) the oumes mrket valu of tke tsed.
if is is arady owned by an invesor and doe not aned to be purhased: g 3) fsip for a pepea
poud lease from ths date ghag a conmrmdot   cotac is awardd thsog  tse completion of
conatrastlon
*            bf m
Indse 0oy the couamt iofsutur which wiU be recovered directly through the sle of the fas
or houes Other infrercur expens  are not elipill for finacin.
Includ e pens  for architectural and technical designs, project documeau. lepl tees. itd.
3onre.Mof Piquant Pnsnen
_________Eu_ it                                                         ,        of total
Deposits/prepaymeuts                             of total
Loas: Constructoa Credit Faciity              5Z of total
Loans: local bank                             % of total
Knvesment from ules                           % of total
_Other sources                                % of total
TOTAL                                   too %
Idsaty below the soue of equity ia te projea
______.  t4resana of landnnhielan  saradyowee dbythe levessorand does met
need to ba purchased.
Cus coatribudon by tie invetor.
Dposits. Di If the deposits wil be sd St the beianig of the project tor and
befoe any constueto  adits en advanced
"nP preparation expeae icumed prior to the start of costruion.
-          ~~~Totad equity
clud an tis Ule deposik or pnpeayetswbilck ilbeInesuddudrigthe consauction period.but
not as equity at the begining of coasmutlo
*  tamen. Cpaaepme,4toevadi..  wPsiewth
Iulu  on thi Usle tIe amout e  constrtion cdiutorwhllc you a*pp    with tb oappliat
I"cu  on ths Han lan you expet to recive froo othr o trc  for th  projecL Dscribe here
the rpayment terms
Iclde ea this lin any addidonal Investmesn you pan to mak In the project from the proits ea the
o ae of selts durl tes comatrtoa  perod.
*        p a a  dsU
lnceude em hiis linoay ether fundt you expect to reeive for this project. *ad describe themoberm



-85-                                     ANNEX F
Page 9 of 14
20                                        21
Cooametioe eons (d)                        Total lau area (m2)  'I
Usha   >       
'                     brS~~~PumaIS      2:2
cm      >Ailatiomof land
Peradz2       to esach l t
GA    ,                   | bailtiarc   >>>|-
Petal: 3                                   21/17
Total                      1     23
For a2 cost at land.
r value of load. or
oadlet"e fees
24                                                          25 Land cost
Cost or value of land allocatd                                  ow value allocated by unit (sl)
to .2 of built are (zl)         >    |              x   14A      A
22a23                *   143      3 _     _ _
*   14C      c I _        _
x   14D     D
2i                                              a   148      B
Total cos of                                        x  2 aSa   CM!
lafirscsen (at)                                     a >  a  3 *n2    GA I
n7                                                          28 Isfrataeuucsure
Ifrastruceture alloaud                                          coau allocatud b usia (2)
o ml of buil area (l)    .      _                        14A     A |
26/ 16          x         143     3
I        14C     C   _    _ _
*a       14D     D
a        143     8r
a       2-na    CMI
I GA I
Totalcos tomiat        A 1                19A+2A+2A
befor project          B1                19T4253B263
prepared.O eaeses   -C                   1PC+.2C+.IC
_ )                 19D+25De4sD
3t _______     193.25321
ry ______IC4SC M.22UCM
GA I   _ _      19OA+2SGA.
31
30                                                              Projec protl coats
Total cos of cosawteuoe.                                             (* oa totl)                  I
laud ad Infrastructure (1)                                          E. write 7 as .07
DwviWap                     4c   20
CM          .c    20                                    3Z
GA      'C    20,                                 Project preparation
Land                     c  2ix23                  expeces( (21)
lstrwucture                           26                                      31x36
TOTAL       .
32
34                                                              Total project cosa (21)
Total emit coat acladlg ,as  o
expenses (:1)          A  _      _ _         229Am3t+21 A
B                1s V921+3 42M
C         _          29Cz3l+29C              The floal cost per wait
D                 lo 2983n+29D               will be increaed by
B  _              c   31+293                 lsters O coas etion
CM  _                29CMZ1+29=C              loans.
GA _________  *29 AzS129G



-86-                                      ANNE    F
Page   10 of 14
COST ANALYSIS F0R HOUSING PROJECTS                       Tm_:
Nroises  N am e:  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
1                       _ _ _  _ _ _         2     *
Numberof caits           A |Co--_a_l_                                     GaO ps (m2)
byrype                   3 I a                (-1)
Refers to units of equal  C                   I J  Cm                          G A_     .
size: cg... WA-4U.L      D   _um_r I_Num ber
B'"6Oms~~~~~~ cte                    1      n}m2                                  
_                     ____   Totl I__
4
tlbht livieg am          A            I                               A 
per unit (al)            a                    Total amble am        [
Includes bedrooms. di41g   C                 per witi (d2)           C
room. iviag room. and    D [              _    niudes aU rooms     D[
kitches > I02           E                    in thc unit             I
A ____7
Total built area             _                           Toal bUilt area (ml)
per unit (ml)            C  _________                       Lmi :
Includes wills           D                                                                        "IL...
CM           >12 *toWl-
S                                                      GA       b                               _
Commos st* (2) W  
Hill. elawgtor. stairway.                      Ratio of comom as
corridors. utility  ets                        area to built area                 u
11
10      > >         A                  EA1(GAa3)               Total built nd
Area attributable        a |68+(S )                                  commas       .M2)
to each unit (dl)        C                  6C*(dCd)
D                   W(D h9+()                   (u);
f 1t _   _   _ 68+(                  ~~~~(I&103).a.
12                 13                        14          3 0303  A  I0A*(iQ
Service                 Ratio at sraice       Total arsa              .                  1t3ilOUl)
armw (m2)               areas to built arm     stwilbmtableto         C         *      1-C40 lIK
I      --I                       I         *eac sf *.(0)                              100 |   - I +(IoDzIL)
Storage. ecnr .                  1U/11                                                   103+(10E13)
mechanical area
15                            14                        17
Total built ares             Total bells area             Total built ae
exeluding CM                leeludiag CM (.2)             bdeldiag Cm c4a GA
nod GA (d2)t. 
(IA14A)+                          1352
0lBx14B).
15                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19 For suit 
Coostructiom costn per 2 (xi)                _,,                      ou_____o   am (II
Usits    z r                 >A                                ____
Cm      Z                                                     _  _ 2  _ I CIA
GA   Z _,
;



-87-
ANN F
Page 11 of 14
A            B             C             D             B             P            G
Workshect: Calculating Loan and Interest Payments
(Thousads ot Zloty)
T o :                      . _ ,_ .__   ___ _ _ _ _
projei Nme: 
Qusutl  nteret astem loom:                             (Show e .15 for 15%, .20 for20l. i.td.)
F|iled      Nw loasrs    Dalsce ast |ln6erest        Dalance at   Repajyets|    N
(Quae)  I(capital)         beg.ssmig        due    aed of periodb |            1 b ace
Iasw_ue_e  jIers asenst  Colnes C -       Multiply        A"          Show any      Sebbtet
!florti     oatloss Is    Colmam B    Colmae C by   Coulms C*    reaowymets   Columa a-
drawdov L Colon B                       imeoet nte    Colone D                     Column      .
_seeredn       emit 1ooq      Add           Same          Some          Same         Same
for an other    mew loens    Colm 0a +
perIds         he"s       saw loas;
in Column B
Y"t 1:
3
4
Year 3:
tO 
___ -__ I _   _ I __ 1,__
TOTALS                         XtUUt                       XXXX                          c
ltae toadl tepMvsu (Colons P) he":
Subtac       Total aredis (Cole" 11):
Blldace eqnals Total letevest Paid



e= noW  S    iv mum1 5                                                   M .               ,_                    rwt u_
_       iel
I             |                               :        X         4     S  3    7  f  I  t  a               l    1S
OUmIs;     w  *d    (I_-._
lemma sbrisn
Sob _                                              --I ___
Pnpedla.     ,~ee        ,
Sb.                                I        I d      I         I        I         I        I        I         I -I
Id tewnK
Sin - . _ I . _sum
d*sez -                         -                   -     - -1-.    - 1    -
itbeerdnedre
UsemnsU  _Ins. IsI_
bli _    IF Is I . bow
blud ndu" b                  -E    -                                         -  . 
tb. t E -s                        I         I                       I ,                    I I 1 ._1_1__1_1_
1a e  QUO =                       I                            I        I         I             I        I         I        I       I
-m                                I         I        I         I        I                  I                  I_       I         I.           - 
,,
"       *                                                                                                                                                    o~~~~~~~~~o
_ .                                                                     .*0
"I



-89-                                         ANN  F
s              ;iwu Finance                                 Page 13P  of 14
Attachment to Application for Coastru tiom Credit (Multi-Family)
Certification of Compliance with Competitive Bidding Requirements
Project name:
Town/location:
Applicant:
All applcansu for couructios caedits maun coaply with the competitive bidding rtqulrsmnam of the Housing Fi
Proeit Comptigive biddig is equirnd is the following situaos:
The wsza or l  of land wbleisomed or controllod by t public e-r or a    enapda
ZThe award of a conact for housg _ooniructioo sad reated iafzsuctar developm by th public
sectr, a str. enrapriue, or by a cooperatve for projea skwatd on land leae from sh Si.
*       Te award ofa contarcm conac by a prvate ae, invemr wba the value of the   t
exceeds ZI 1.00 bU Ion (or th equivalen of 11.0 mMiln at the current offcil ahpg ra)
or whe  be, propoed poct com apper   be uneasonbl.
The award or extension at a coaserctioo con,trct for the compledon of an unfinished housing prject by the pubec
scor is subject to competitive bidding requiemssam. soles it can be demaonrated hac
nThe prices of the original eanactor are reas ble, and
*       Imposing competitve bidding requiremrengs would result in no substantial advantage to the project.
to geUnel. cooperatives are ruird to comply with all competitive bidding requirements except when:
*       The bousintprojectwill be siguated on land owned by the coopetive, and notoan landwhich is leased
from the public sctor.
*       The land has been or will be purchsased by the cooperatives members with their own resouren. and
act with subsidies or otber assistance froms the public sector. ad
*       The eost of on-site infrastructre will not be subsidized by the public sectr.
Competitive bidding is a three-step process comprised of:
1       Te owner of theproperty issues a Notice of Requess for Blds
2 '     Bids are submined
3 0     The owner of tde proper reviesand evaluates bids based on the riteria and procedurcs gaounced
in the Request for Bids
Prior to offering lnd for sale or lese. or awarding a construcdon conact a Notice of Request for Bids muas be
prepared displyed and advertised, a follows:
Not les tha  i weeksprior to t eldo g date for the submission of bids. the Notice of Raqu esfor
Bids jost be displayed in the owers offize   in the city hl of the guina in which the prope  is
located. and in the offices of the oivodasip in which the property is located. The Notice fuWt be
displayed in a locatdon to which the public ha eay aces and wbore simiLat annou.cemeata are
customarily posted
*       Not les than six wealts prior to the closing date for the submission of bids, the Ndce of Request for
Bids must be publised for at leat the consecutive day in a local newaparer and at least one day
in a atounai news pper.
At a minimum, the Notice of Request for Bids for the sale or lease of land meaetum  the following informatdon:
I       Tzhe land record desigadon of the property, including desigatioan in the buiding and land plats
*       Size and  eneral description of the ppaety includiag buidiap theon
*       Cuzrrnut m of tghe prpery
'..     Desdgnatedueof thepsopegcndsieedavelopmentpidalnes(e.g..mrlti famity.singlefaaiy xed
housing and commercl. etcm)
Dates by which consructioa must be commenced and finished
beans of le or  fder (e.gt. fee simple. perpetual less  etc )
Base or estimated price for property, including all buildinp and fixtures
*       Fees or depoits required to sbmit a bid
Terms of payment for land
*       Factors wbich will be used to evaluate bids
*       Name. addres and telephone number of contact perso wo request forms and instructioas for
submitting a bid
*       Closing date and location for submitting a bid



-90-                                           ANNEX F
Page i14 of 14
At A minimum. the Notice of Requ"t for Sids for the award d a eauumtioe connemt nu  cotisaa the following
Istormatio.:
*       Size. location and penel descriation of the peojeci  e sincluding buUdinp theon
*       Size and general description of the project to be coanuctud
*       A procuamet list by peeral categoty oi good services ad materialsu. If  am
*       Slte delopment pSidelbaes (e.g.. multit-famIty single family. mired housing and commercial. ete.)
*       DData by wbhIc constructona mu.x be commenred sad finished
I       Fees requited ti submit a bid
*       Factors which will be used t evaluate bids
*       StauteSmmt on whether bids an limited t a speeiic daip, or whetber altiva   desigs oill be
considerad
*       Name. addrss and telephoc. number of conta  perce to nquet forms tad inatuctioas tor
nbulitiog a bid             *
*       Closing date and locatioa for submittiag a bid
The property owner is required to prepare docueataswhich provide4pecifIc isnuuctloa aed formstor submItting a bid.
The iesuutoas sould acaeclearlytha aillbids mitue bmadei nwritinigan submitte dis a eaed pakage tnoaddidiou.
at a aminimum the bid documents should include:
*       A op of ttt Notice of Request for Blids
*       Minimum quaftions f or bidden. if any
*       Elaboation of the site development guidelines
*       Factos to be usd in evalutinS bids. inciauding a point sste  for weighting factors
*       A site plan in sufficient detail to euable tte propation of prpos
*       A clear decription of the level of architeetural detail equird in this bid (e.g.. peeral Iayout. specific
buidding desgns et.)
*       A clew descnption and format for she presentation of financtal information on tte biddar and the proposed
project
*       Date. iene and location for the public opening of bids
oAny other information acesry to ensure that all tems and conditios of the bidding proces and
project cairus are fully undentood
Factors which can be taken into account wbeo evaluating bids can inciude, but are not laited to:
*      The highest price offered for the purchase or leas of lad
I>       Lowest cost of constrution. provided the cost estimates are reiticd
*       RespcuR weanes to the site development guidelimes
I       Demoesaratd capacityof the bidder to undertake constretion in  timeiyfabion andfully imptement
the project
*       Soud finaning plan. and overell autsmmnt of the projes feibiliy
*       Best everll architectural desig
*       Environmental impact
The HFP? encouraes incluw'nog a desip component in the evslution factwn o ecourage more inaoaeve desigs and
lower cost construcios.
To enure objee*ity and fairne  in evaluating propols a bid review committee shoud be established. consistn af
not les tas 5 pesns and refing a tpi   crossesioe of te community. Any peoe wbo hs a buaios
profeional or peroal interest in any compnywwhich hiassubmitted a bid. or-whowil beadni ia the setionot a bid.
may aot seve on the bid review committee.
The Housing Finance Project Office retains the right to review and apprve a projcts com'etitive bidding procedures
0and documents, eel to make a final determination that the requinrmenut have been sautisIed.
statentent Of Cartifitestin
I hsa-e read the foregoing description of the competitive bidding
requiremeats for receiving construction credits under the Housing
Finance Proj et.  I hereby  certify that the project for which this
credit application has been submitted is in full compliance with
these requirements.
Signlatuet
Position:
Date:
rhis attach.w*^ go the dppUicarin for CaeSwuCii* Credit (Mulfti-Famwily) may be rubminiedt with
eke eppltcatal.  or at a facer date. As appiefca,i. f or castrwcteiO  credit wifl net be f pproved
with*ut a siSned Cartificascew of Cempliamce wJIs Compeftiive #iddlit Aequiresewae.



-91-
ANNEX G
Page 1 of 8
STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
OUTLINE FOR CONSTRUCTION FINANCING AGREEMENT
Preamble
The Preamble states who the Construction Financing Agreement (the
"contract") is between, the legality of the parties to the
contract, their addresses, and the date of the contract.
Section I: Incorporation into the Master Contract
The first section will establish the relationship of this contract
to the "Master Construction Financing Contract" (the Master
Contract). This contract is an attachment to the Master Contract.
All provisions in the Master Contract are binding upon the
signatories to this contract. This section will also reiterate the
purpose of the Fund Loan - to provide the L-tnder with construction
money for use in funding construction loans meeting the criteria of
the Mortgage Fund (Fund).
Section II: Definitions
All definitions contained in the Guides are incorporated into this
section. In addition, any amendments to the Guide definitions as
well as other definitions are to be included in this part of the
contract.
Section III:  Loan Terms and Repayment Obligation
The purpose of this contract is for the Fund to lend money to the
Lender. Therefore, this section states the Lender's obligation to
repay the Fund Loan and includes the specific terms of this Fund
Loan such as:
o    How much money is being lent (the Fund Loan Amount)
o    What the term of the Fund Loan is (that is, no more than
X months)
o    That the money reimburses the Lender after the Lender
provides the ultimate borrower with its loan and has
provided the Fund with evidence required by the Guide
(that is Fund money is paid in arrears)
o    How the Fund Loan money is to be used
o    What is to be repaid and when the Fund Loan is to be
repaid - the principal and interest (capitalized or paid
monthly, biweekly, etc). The Lender's right to repay the
Fund Loan earlier and in full should also be included.
O    What the interest rate is and how it is to be calculated



-92-                      ANNEX G
Page 2 of 8
o    How the money is to be lent - that is the Fund Loan
advance formula
o    What share of the borrower loan is funded by the Fund and
what share of this borrower loan is funded by the Lender
o    The location or method for repaying the Fund Loan (that
is, where'to send the money)
Section IV: Fund Loan Conditions
This section sets forth the Fund Loan conditions. The Fund Loan is
to be used only for borrowers, properties, and construction loans
that meet all Guide requirements including the origination and
servicing provisions.  Rather than repeating these requirements,
this section states that all the Guide requirements apply with
certain exceptions.  Then, all exceptions to the Guide are set
forth in this section of this contract.
For construction loans, the Guide will likely refer to project
specifics that are to be approved by the Mortgage Fund. This would
include, as examples, the construction plan (plan realizacyjny),
the work schedule (harmonogram), cost breakdown and estimates, the
draw schedule, project description, inspection schedule, and loan
management process.  These are not amendments to the Guide but
rather an expansion of a Guide provision that pertains to the
specific Fund Loan.   Section IV will include these additional
items.
section V: Security Interest
Although the Guide will describe ways to create a security interest
in the property and improvements, and for construction loans
materie1s and finished units, this contract should describe
specifically how the Lender has created a security interest for
this specific Fund Loan on behalf of the Fund and reaffirm the
Lender's right to create this security interest.   This section
should also state that the security interest applies to all money
given by the Fund pursuant to this loan - that is all construction
draws or "future advances".
Section VI: Default
The default provisions in the Master Contract apply to this
Construction Financing Agreement. However, this contract will also
provide details on what is considered to be a default under this
Construction Financing Agreement. The Lender is in default if there
is a failure to comply with any provision of this or the Master
Contract or the Guides. There are no time limits placed on the
Fund for uncovering a failure to comply with any provision and the
Fund retains all rights of access to records and rights to audit
for this purpose.
Specif-ic examples relating to the provisions of this contract are:



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 8
o    failure to document adequately the use of prior advances;
o    failure to provide supporting documentation with th.-
requisition request
o    lack of sat4sfactory progress or timely, detailed report
of satisfactory progress
o    non-payment of the Fund Loan either in full or part
o    non-payment of the Fund Loan according to any schedule or
procedures for repayment
o    non-conformance with the agreed upon conditions of the
construction plans and schedule without prior written
consent
o    impairment of any security or collateral
o    ineligible  use  of  Fund  Loan,  including  ineligible
borrower and project
o    incorrect or fraudulent statements or failure to provide
information
o    bankruptcy and judgments against the Lender or the
borrower
o    any other non-compliance with the terms of the contract
Section VII: Remedies
In the case of default, the following remedies can take place at
the Fund's discretion:
o    performance of all tasks necessary to complete the
project and/or sale of project
o    acceleration of the Fund Loan
o    enforcement of a work-out plan
o    disapproval or postponement of advances
o    assignment to the Fund of all the Lender's rights under
the Lender contract with the ultimate borrower
o    costs, expenses and attorney's fees incurred by the Fund
in protecting its enforcement rights under this contract
o    foreclosure on any security  4or the Fnd Loan
o    termination of this contract



-94-
ANNE.( G
Page 4 of 8
o    all remedies set forth in the Master Contract, including
suspension or termination of the Lender
Section VIII: Notice
This section sets forth any notice requirements:   addresses,
persons, method of notice and changes of any of these items. This
section also details-any notice requirements for the Fund such as
material changes to the borrower, including death.
Section IX: Responsibility of Lender Signator Under this Contract
This section makes it clear that the person signing this contract
on behalf of the Lender has the right to do so. Also, if there is
a successor to the Lender, this successor must fulfill the
conditions and requirements set forth in this contract.
Section X: Termination of the Contract
This section will incorporate the provisions on termination in the
Master Contract and apply them specifically to this contract. If
there are any variations to the Master Contract provisions, they
should be included in this section.
Signatories
This is the signature section. All contracts must be signed by the
senior and authorized representatives of the Fund and the Lender
and their titles must be included.



-95-
ANNEX G
Page 5 of 8
OUTLINE FOR NORTGAG3 FINANCING AGREEZMNT
Preamble
The Preamble states who the Mortgage Financing Agreement (the
"contract") is betteen, the legality of the parties to the
contract, their addresses, and the date of the contract.
Section I: IncorDoration into the Master Contract
The first section will establish the relationship of this contract
to the "Master Mortgage Financing Contract (the "Master Contract").
This contract  is an attachment to the Master rontract.   All
provisions in the Master Contract are binding upon the signatories
to this contract. This section will also reiterate the purpose of
the Fund Loan - to provide the Lender with money for use in funding
mortgage loans meeting the criteria of the Mortgage Fund (Fund).
Section IT: Definitions
All definitions contained in the Guides are incorporated into this
section. In addition, any amendments to the Guide definitions as
well as other definitions are to be included in this part of the
contract.
Section  III:  Loan Terms and Renayment Obligation
The purpose of this contract is for the Fund to lend money to the
Lender. Therefore, this section states the Lender's obligation to
repay the Fund Loan and includes the specific terms of this Fund
Loan such as:
o    How much money is being lent (the Fund Loan Amount)
o    What the term of the Fund Loan is.  In the case of the
underlying Dual Index Mortgage (DIM), the DIM is designed
to repay in 20 years but the actual period may vary
depending on such factors as changes in the wage index
and inflation index. The term of the Fund Loan parallels
the term of the DIM.
O    That the money reimburses the Lender after the Lender
provides the ultimate borrower with its loan and has
provided the Fund with evidence required by the Guide
(that is Fund money is paid in arrears)
o    How the Fund Loan money is to be used
o    What is to be repaid and when the Fund Loan is to be
repaid - the principal and interest.   The Fund Loan
repayments parallel the DIM. The Lender's right to repay
the Fund Loan earlier and in full should also be



-96-
ANNEX G
Page 6 of 8
included.
O    What the interest rate is and how it is to be calculated
o    How the money is to be lent - that is lump sum or loan-
by-loan
o    For each mortgage loan, what share of the mortgage loan
is funded by the Fund and what share of this mortgage
loan is funded by the Lender
o    The location or method for repaying the Fund Loan (that
is, where to send the money;
Section IV: Fund Loan Conditions
This section sets forth the Fund Loan conditions. The Fund Loan is
to be used only for borrowers, properties, and mortgage loans that
meet all Guide requirements including the origination and servicing
provisions. Rather than repeating these requirements, this section
states that all the Guide requirements apply with certain
exceptions.  Then, all exceptions to the Guide are set forth in
this section of this contract.
For mortgage loans, the Guide may refer to special mortgage loan
requirements that are to be approved by the Mortgage Fund, such as
the general location of the properties.   These are not amendments
to the Guide but rather an expansion of a Guide provision that
pertains to the specific Fund Loan. Section IV will include these
additional items.
Section V: Security Interest
Although the Guide will describe ways to create a security interest
in the property and improvements, this contract should describe
specifically how the Lender has created a security interest in each
property for this specific Fund Loan on behalf of the Fund and
reaffirm the Lender's right to create this security interest. This
section should also state that the security interest applies to all
money given by the Fund pursuant to this mortgage loan.
Section VI: Default
The default provisions in the Master Contract apply to this
Mortgage Financing Agreement.   However, this contract will also
provide details on what is considered to be a default under this
Mortgage Financing Agreement. The Lender is in default if there is
a failure to comply with any provision of this or the Master
Contract or the Guides. There are no time limits placed on the
Fund for uncovering a failure to comply with any provision and the
Fund retains all rights of access to records and rights to audit
for this purpose.



-97-                        ANNEX G
Page 7 of 8
Specific examples relating to the provisions of this contract are:
o    non-payment of the Fund Loan either in full or part
o    non-payment of the Fund Loan according to any schedule or
procedures for repayment
o    impairmeft of any security or collateral
o    ineligible  use  of  Fund  Loan,  including  ineligible
borrower and property
o    incorrect or fraudulent statements or failure to provide
information
o    bankruptcy and  judgments against the Lender or the
borrower
o    non-conformance  with  the agreed  upon  conditions  of
mortgage loan origination and servicing
Section VII:  Remedies
In the case of default, the following remedies can take place at
the Fund's discretion:
o    acceleration of the Fund Loan repayment
o    enforcement of a work-out plan for any of the mortgage
loans
o    assignment to the Fund of all the Lender's rights under
the Lender contract with the ultimate borrower
o    costs, expenses and attorney's fees incurred by the Fund
in protecting its enforcement rights under this contract
o    foreclosure on any security for the Fund Loan
o    termination of this contract
o    all remedies set forth in the Master Contract, including
suspension or termination of the Lender
Section VIII: Notice
This section sets forth any notice requirements:   addresses,
persons, method of notice and changes of any of these items. This
section also details any notice requirements for the Fund such as
material changes to the borrower, including death.
Section IX: Responsibility of Lender Sianatory Under this Contract
This section makes it clear that the person signing this contract



-98-                      ANNEX G
Pa~ge 8of 8
on behalf of the Lender has the right to do do. Also, if there is
a successor to the Lender, this successor must fulfill the
conditions and requirements set forth in this contract.
Section X: Termination of the Contract
This section will incorporate the provisions on termination in the
Master Contract and apply them specifically to this contract. If
there are any variations to the Master Contract provisions, they
should be included in this section.
Signat2rieg
This is the signature section. All contracts must be signed by
the senior and authorized representatives of the Fund and the
Lender and their titles must be included.



-99-                                       ANNEX H
Page       f 5
POID fIRST SIht    PMJECT
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS OF THE MORTGAGE FUND
A. Economic statistics                                         3. lank disbunrsemnt profito
Inftation rates-                                                Coawtruction             50.0X   5100.000
Poland                            40.0S                      Mortgae loans            50.0    100,000
Internationat                      4.0                                                         .
Ztoty/USS differentlaL            36.02                      Loan size, USS COOO)             S200.000
Interest rates-                                                 Maturity inyeynv                       17
Nortgage loan                      U6.02                     Grawe perlod  In years                   5
Averag  dpoitor lnterest          36.02                      Smnl *wival repayments (000)       98,333
Fund fucility                     43.0X                      AnmwsL comnitment fee                0.25t
Wortd Bank toan                    7.50s
oDf tursmnt prof f1o-    X         Amot
Exchange rate, year I           Zl 13,700                                                  -       ------
_                             Year I                   10X    S20,000
C.  _ovenuent contrfbutfon dishurso-                                 Year 2                   20X     40,000
sent proftle                                                      Year 3                   10%     40,000
Year 4                  202      40,000
Dlsb.                                                       Year 5                   202     40,000
Yr.  period        Year  Deferred                                 Year 6                   10%     20.000
-     ......-..--.-.   ----.                                      Year t                    0%           0
1  520,000          6          SO                                                        --
2   40,000          7           0                                                        100%   5200,000
3   40,000          8            0                                                                  -*a
4   40000          9            0                         0.  Fund faciLfty term
5   40.000         10            0
6   20,000         11            0                           1. 2 of mortgage firnaned               80.0X
7        0         12           0                            2.  2 of mortgges pats. ree d          80.0X
-3       0         13           0                            3.  X dpositor Int. capit               50.0X
_1. 14                     0
5200.000         15           0
* -=0-          16           0
17           0
so
5. World Bank loan cash fLlovs 
Tot          First      First       First        First
1. Principal                                    (USS 000)    5 years   10 years    15 years    20 years
.......      .......   ..... ...    .... ..... .......... ...
Btlane begfnning of parted                          0            0           0           0            0
Dosbursed                                  S200,000     S180,000   S200,000    #200,000    5200,000
Repid                                                          0    (83,333)   (16,667)   (200,000)
...... .....            ....... ...       .  ....
BaLanc end of period                         S200,000     S180,000   S116,667      933333           (SO)
2. Interest                                     *120,000      530,750   #99,375    S117,500    S120,C00
3. Undfsbursed portfon of loan                                 520,000         S0          S0           S0
Malmo"                   um-
4. Coumilnt fee                                                 51.475     a1S500      S1t500       S1,500
Prepared by PLO 22-May-92       Of ebu'Somt: Loan $200 with govwt S200, no deferred gOv't                               Page 1



-100-                                     ANNEX H
Page 2 of 5
POLAND FIRST NUMING PROJICT
F. fwud disbursment prof ift (without
deferred gov't contributfon)
1. fwud loan duri,w disbursement                             Ffrst      First       Ffrst       First
period                                                   5 years   10 years   15 years   20 years
NortUgs Issusd-
Frm construction two                  *1693562  s200,000   5200,000    $200.000
Oirect mortgage financing                              1600000   200,000      200,000     200,000
Total mortgages issued                               349,562   400,000    400,000       400,000
2. Project disbursement summary
Mortog   and construction tows:   X
Fund facility-
World Ban                    30.0X    5200,000    S180,000  s200,000   s7nn,000    s200,05u
Co-financrin                  O.OX            0            0          0           0           0
Gover  nt                    30.02      200.000      180,000    200,000     200,000     200,000
...................................  ..........   .......  ..........  .......
60.02      400.000     360,000   400.000    400,000       400,000
Mortgage bank                   15.02     100.000       90.000    100,000    100.000      100,000
, .. ... ...... .....  ..........  .............   .......  ..........  .......
Total Loan                     75.0X      500,000      450,000   300,000    300.000       500,000
Hum  hold                        25.02      1$6,667      130,000    166.667     166,667     166,667
.....       .......     .......    .......  .  .. .......  .............. .....................
Total proJect                   100.0X    S666.o67    S6W0,000  S6*66667   S666,667   566,667
3. Cost of units fin nced                        rear 1       Year 5   Yerr 10      Year 15    Year 20
Sales per 52, In USS                           S400         S449       S519        S600        5694
unit     X          Total       First      first       First       First
32      cost*  totat      (JSS 000)     5 years  10 years   15 years   20 yeers
... .   . .* ....... .....  ......... ..... ........ ;.. . .....  *. ... ...... ......... ......
T.pe A          40    S16,000   25.0X      5166,667    *150,000   714,66?   S166,667    S166,667
Type B          60      24,000  25.0X       166,667      150,000    166,667    166,667    166,667
Type C          s0      32,000   25.02      166,667      150.000    166,66?    166,667      166,667
Type D          100     40.000   25.0%      166,667      130,000   166,667    166,667       166,667
...-.   ......    ..... .   ... ..........  .......  ....... . .. .......   .............. ..............
62    524,935  100.OX     566,667    5600,000  S666,667   S666,667    5666,667
Ffrst     First       firsic       first
4. Itauar of units financed                                 5 yers t10 years   15 yea-s   2t years
Unit     X           Total      ----- -              ........    ........
52      cost*  total         units
........  .........  .....    ...........
Type A          40    S16,000   39.02        10,417        8,797      9,698       9,698       9,698
Type 3          60      24,000   26.02        6,944        5,864      6,46e       6,465       6,465
Type C          s0      32,000   19.5X        5,208        4,396      4,849       4.849       4.849
Typ D           100     40,000  IS.6"         4,167        S,319      3,679       3,879       3,879
...     ......  .....        ......       ......     ......      ......      ......
.e    $24,935  100.02       26,736       22,376     24,891      24,891      24,891
am    _         _  _                        -         m
*  Yar I t U        400 per 12
Prepsre4 by Plo 22-1My-92      Disburseent: Loan S200 with pv't S200, no deferred gov't                             Page 2



-101-                                      ANNEX H
Page 3 of 5
FPlOL   FIRST OUSING PROJECT
0. fund cash ftlos World Sank                                     First       first       First       PFrst
project (UMS 000)                                             5 years   10 years   15 y*ea    20 years
Cah recipts:
Proceed  from bnk tloans-
World Sank                                              S180,000   $200,000    *200,000    $200,000
*                Co-firnacing                                                    0          0           0           0
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......                                     .......  . .. .......  ............. ... ...... ....
Total bank loan                                          U 0,000    200,000    200,000       200,0C0
Govarnv nt contributaon to Fund                            180,000    200,000     200,000      200,000
............ ................
360,000    400,000    400,000      400,000
Subtloan Rapynts to Fund                                    74,04A    284,959     531,508      724,132
Total cash recefpts                                        434,044    654;959     931.508  1;124;132
Cash disbur me nts:
Loans, 100.0X of  ortgage lon                              360,000    400,000    400,000      400,000
Fund exFpwsns                                                3,315      7,547      12,947       19,840
Total disburs m  ts                                        33,315    407,547    412,947        419,840
.......    .......     .......     .......
Cash flow before debt servfce                                  70,729    27,412      518,561      704,292
Debt sorvice:                                                 .......    .......      .......     .......
World Bank-
interest                                                  30,750     69,375     117,500     120,000
Comitment fee                                              1,475      1,500       1,500        1,500
Loan repaymnt                                                  0     83,333     166,667      200,000
Total World Bank                                          32,225    174,208     285,67     321,500
Co-f 1 naeer-                                               ......    .......     .......      .......
Interest                                                       0          0           0            0
cemmituent fee                                                 0          0           0            0
0          0           0           0
....   ....         .. ..       .......
Total co-firanceer                                             0          0           0            0
Total debt service                                          32,225    174,208     285,667     321,500
......    .......... .......      ....... ..........
Net cash flow after debt service                              $38,504   $103,203    *232,695    8382,792
Accaltoted cash flow                                          *38,504   $103,203    S232,895    8382,792
N. Fund reinvestment profile (with
Govern_nt contribution tWf ront)
Amount       Firat      First       Ffrst        Ffrst
1. Reinvestment disburse-              X        (USS 000)     5 years   10 years   15 years    20 years
ment sumry                           .......               .......   ........    ........    ........
Nortge Fund lomns               60.01     s737,750       541,010   $135,300    3358,280    $737,750
Mortage bank                    15.0X       184,438       10,253     33,825      89,570      184,436
....      .......      .......    .......... .......       ....... ..........
Total mortgage lons           75.0       922,18U        51,263    169,125     447,850     922,188
Housahold                       25.02       307,396       17,086     56,375     149,283      307,396
....      .......      .......    .......... .......       ....... ..........
Total                          100.0   81.229.583        68.350   *225.500   *S97.133 S1;229;%3
Preparsd by PLO 22-Msy-92       Disbursement: Loan S200 with gov't #200, no deftrred gov't                             PagO 3



-102-                                        ANNEX H
Page 4 of 5
POLAND FIRST MOWING PIOJgCT
H. Continuud
2. Cost of unito finaneod                        Year 1       Year 5   Yasr 10      Year 1S    Yasr 20
Sales per 12, in USS                           5400         54409      619         $600        9A4
Unit     X         Total        firat      First       First       FIrst
H2       cost*  total     (US5 000)    S ysars   10 years   1S yars    20 yeors
...     ........  .....  .  ... ..........  .......  ........ ..  ........ ...... ........ ................... ....
Type A          40    $16,000  25.0X    5307,39         517,088   $56,375   $149,283   $307,396
Type 0          60      24,000  2S.OX    S307,396         17,085     56,375     149,283    307,396
Type C          80      32,000  25.01    5307,396         17,086     56,375     149,283    307,396
Type 0          100     40,000  2S.0    S307,396         17,088    56,375      149,283    307,396
,,, ....  ..,.            .........      ......    ........ .....           .......
62     524,935  100.0   $1,229,553     568,350  5225,500   #597,133  51,229,583
3.  uwbr unmito financed
Unit     X          Total
K2       cost*  total        units
Type A          40    *16,000  39.0X         19,212        1.068      3,523       9,330      19,212
Type a          60      24,000  26.0X        12,808          712      2,349       6,220      12,808
Type C          80      32,000  19.51         9,606           34      1,762       4,665       9,606
Type 0         100      40,000  1S.6"         7,685          427      1,409       3,732       7,685
....... ..... ..........  ...... ........  ......   .........    ......  .........  ......
62    $24,935  100.01       49,311        2,741      9,043      23,948      49,311
Year   at USS 400 per N2
,. Fund rofnvestment cash ftlows (with
Goverrnunt contribution up-front)                            First      First       Ffrst       Ffrst
5 years  10 yean    15 years   20 years
Cash recepts:                                              -            -.
Viord Sank project (see e above)                          38,504  *103,203       3M2,895   s38z,7
Reinvesmtwnt portfolio receipts                            2,505    32,100      125386    354,954
Total receipts                                            41,009    135,303    358,280      737,747
Relnvest nt ortagge finncing                                 41,010   135,300    358,280       737,750
Net cash flow after reinvestment                                (SI)        53          so         (3)
Accumulated cash flow                                           (51)        s3          so 0(3)
J. Fund reinvestment cash flows with                       This setion Is not valid because no deferred
deferred gov't contribution                            governe nt contribution was selected in C above
Cash receipts:
World Bank project (0 above)                              38,504   s103,203    5232,895    S382.792
Reinvestment portfolio receipts                                0          0           0      13,442
Supplemental gov't contribution                                0          0           0           0
38,504    103,203    232.895     396,234
Reinvestment mortgage finwncing                                   0          0           0           0
Net cash flow aftor reinvestmnt                             538,504 s103,203    S232,M5 s396,234
Accumulated cash flow
Prepared by PLO 22-Nay-92      Disbursemnt: Laon 200 with gov't 5200, no deferred gov't                             Page 4



-103-                                       ANNEX H
Fage 5 of 5
POLAND FIRST MOUSING POJECT
L. Consolidated 20 year summary,
(up-front Gowrnnnt contrib.)                   Invest.       Reinv.      Total
Nud.er of units fInanced                     26,736       49,311     76,048
_      X of total units financed                      33.2X        64.81      100.01
Inv        *             ui          um         Refnv       Total
Ffnancfng Plan                     X                                                             X
Mortwage Fund-                   -...                                                         ...
World Bank                   30.03     $200,000                S200,000         0.0       10.5X
Co-ftnncer                    0.01           0                       0         0.0S        0.0%
Sovernant contribution       30.01      200,000                 200,000         0.0       10.5X
Refnvestmant of cash flow                           $5737.750    737.750       60.0X       38.9X
Total Fund                   60.01      400,000      737,750  1,137,750        60.0X       60.0X
Participatfng banks             15.0X      100,000      184,438    284,438       15.01       15.01
Total valus of wrtgage         75.0X      500,000      922,188  1,422,188        75.0X       75.01
Household contribution            25.0X      166,667     307,396    474.063        25.01       25.0X
@ ........   ...  .  . ....... .. ..... ......... . .. ..... . . ............... .......
Totat cost of unfts financd      100.03X    $666667  *1,229,585 *1,896,250        100.01      100.0X
_~mu                 *      _ umiua             - 



-104-                                            ANNEX  I
Page 1 of 6
PoLAwOR2.WKI           DUAL INDEX MORTGAGE AMORTIZATION TABLE                                                                 SUMRY
45.45 M2, IMF 40X, GRANT 0, OP"T 2SI            CR0EDt PROFILE AND STATISTICS                                        POLAND 190
Envirormntal factors:                                                                                            No.         ZLty
........ ;a;; ....                                                   Nominal cash flow of loan:          AMW         (000)
Loan starting  1nt   t  ate               n.0-                             ..................                 .           ......
Real interest rote                                       6.0x                Interest                          35.3   28,273,465
Starting annual inftitfon rate t2.84X monthly)          40.0x                Capftal                           64.7       187,500
Frequency of adjuet_ant of monthly payment and
indexation of capitatl 2 below), fn months                                  Total                           100.0   28,462,%S
(insert 3  6, or 12)                                     3                           .                                aiuaa
Correlatfon wage chnges/fnflation                                            Peak capital at month 198         S1.9    9,727,439
adJusted every 3 months                              100.0S
Correlation wage chenges to pamnt Increase             100.01              maturfty:
Amortfzaton- (1) Capitalization Interest mnthly
(2) indexation principal every 3 months                  I                This loan aortizes in 19 years, 4 months
Zloty        US S  Indlcators:
: ~~~~~~~~~~~.....                                 ...... .. ..........
starting exchange rate, Ztoty per US#                 13,700        $1.00  IRR cash flows Canmualized)                       46.0x
startfng average monthly wgoe CAHU)                2,900,000      $211.68                                                    ..
Starting costs per N2                              5,500,000      5401.46   Cost recovery:    Nominal         Real             X
Affordabfilty calculations: (Pres ALT C to preview results)                      Down pue.         62,50D      62,500         100.0x
_ -^.-.................. .L. Loan                                                                187,500      274,162         146.2X
Payment 1 of family income                              25.0X                                   .......     .......         .....
Seneficiary family income CIFI) (000)                  5,000                                   250,000      336,662         134.7Z
Starting monthly paysnt CO00)                          1,250                   Grant                  0           0           0.0O
Nu!ber of monthly payments financed                      150                                    .......        .       ...
Affordable loan maxium  (000)                        187,500                  Total cost       230.000      336,662         134.7t
Government grant X                                       0.0X                                  *            inmu            -- -
Beneficiary down payment X                             i5.0%                 First year statistics:
Maxim.u affordable cost of housing unit (000)        250,000                 ----.-.----- .----
N2 affordable                                          45.45                   StartIng interest rate                        46.0X
Monthly payment (000)                     1,250.00
mult.       Zloty          US S      Total paymants 1st year                     17,093
Caleulation of  amunts financed:            AMU         (000)          (000)     Total payments/loan amount                     9.12
........_..._........................ ..... ........    . .....   ..........  .....
Changes In anrual nflation rates:
0                                     86.21       250.000      *18248     . ..-------------;
Grant                        0.0X         0.00             0             0     Starting rate (Year 1)                        40.02
_. .                                               Y *---  Year 2                               40.0X
Cost to beneficfary                      86.21       250,000        18,248     Year 3         ;                              40.0X
Down paymeny                2S.01         21.55       62,500         4.562     Year 4                                        40.0X
_ ...... .  .......        .. ....    Year 5 to maturity                            40.0X
Amount loaned                            64.66       187,500      S13,686
Loan as a multiple of lot monthly payment:
Starting monthly payent                   43.1%   1.250,000         $91.24          Real                        Real
_~        mamma. S         -s             m Int.        Mult.          nt.        Mult.
2.01           190          6.02          150
3.01           180          7.02          140
4-0X           170          8.01          130
5.01           160          9.01          120
Prsparad for the Warld Bank by Peter L. Ooty, Financfal Consultant, on 22-May-92



-105-                                         Ab~NNEX       6
-105-                                         Page 2 of 6
POIANOR2.WKl        DUAL INDEX NRTGACE CREDITS MOITHLY AMORTIZATION- 45.45 N2, IbF 40X, IANT 0O, DPNT 25X
45.45 N2, IMF 40X, G=ANT OK, OPMT 23S      MONTHLY AMORTIZATION TABLE                          CAPITALIZATION INTEREST
No         Avg.         Int.          No.      Cash In        Amt.        rng.          Indbx.       set.           X
pit.        wage         rate          AMW       (out)          Int.       (pes)        prino.       prfnc         AMW
,.....      ....    .    ....          ...    .   . ... ...    ....   .  .......    .   .. ......  .......          ....... ........ ............
0        2,900            0       (64.635)   (187,300)          0            0                   187,500
1        2,900         3.20K      0.4310     1,250.00    6,007.30    4,737.30                    192,257         43.1K
2        2,900         3.20K      0.4310    1,250.00    6,159.71      4,909.71                   197,167         43.1K
3        2,900         3.20K      0.4310     1,250.00    6,317.02    5,067.02                    202,234         43.1K
4        3,154         3.20m       0.4310    1,339.70    6,479.36    5,119.66                    207,354         43.1K
s        3,154         3.20       0.4310    1,3S9.70    6,643.39    5,283.69               0    212,637         43.1X
6        3,154         3.20m      0.4310     1,359.70    6,812.67    5,452.97                    218,090         43.1K
7        3,431         3.20K      0.4310     1,479.02     6,987.38    3,308.36                   223,599         43.1K
S        3,431         3.20K      0.4310     1,479.02    7,163.86    5,684.84              0    229,284          43.1K
9        3,431         3.20K      0.4310     1,479.02    7,345.99    5,866.97                    235,151         43.1K
10        3,732         3.20K      0.4310    1,608.81     7,533.97    5,925.15                    241,076        43.1K
11        3,732         3.20K      0.4310    1,608.81    7,723.80    6,114.99               0    247,191          43.1K
12        3,732         3.20K      0.4310     1,608.81    7,919.72    6,310.90                    253,502        43.1K
13 -      4,060        3.20       0.4310     1,730.00    8,121.91    6,371.91                    259,873        43.1K
14        4,060         3.20K      0.4310     1,750.00    8,326.06    6,576.06              0    266,450         43.1%
1i        4,060         3.20K      0.4310     1,750.00    8,536.75    6,786.75                    273,236         43.1K
16        4,416         3.20K      0.4310     1,903.58    8,754.19    6,850.62                    280,087         43.1K
17        4,416         3.20K      0.4310     1,903.58    8,973.68    7,070.10              0    287,157          43.1K
18        4,416         3.20K      0.4310     1,903.58    9,200.20    7,296.62                    294,454         43.1K
19        4,804         3.20K      0.4310     2,070.63    9,433.97    7,363.35                    301,817        43.1K
20        4,804         3.20K      0.4310    2,070.63    9,669.89    7,599.26               0    309,416          43.1K
21        4,804         3.20K      0.4310    2,070.63    9,913.36    7,842.73                     317,259         43.1K
22        5,225         3.20K      0.4310    2,252.34    10,164.63    7,912.29                    325,171         43.1K
23        5,225         3.20K      0.4310    2,252.34    10,418.13    8,165.79              0    333,337          43.1K
24        5,225         3.20K      0.4310    2,252.34    10,679.76    8,427.42                    341,764         43.1K
23        S,684         3.20K      0.4310    2,450.00   10,949.76    8,499.76                     350,264         43.1K
26        5,684         3.20K       0.4310    2,450.00    11,222.08    8,772.08             0    359,036          43.1K
27        5,684         3.20K      0.4310    2,450.00    11,503.13    9,053.13                    368,089         43.1K
28        6,183         3.20K       0.4310    2,665.01   11,793.18    9,128.18                    377,218         43.1K
29        6,183         3.20K      0.4310    2,665.01    12,085.64    9,420.64              0    386,638          43.1K
30        6,183         3.20X       0.4310    2,665.01    12,387.47    9,722.46                   396,361         43.1K
31        6,,s          3.20m       0.4310    2,898.88   12,698.97    9,800.09                    406,161         43.1K
32        6,725         3.202       0.4310    2,898.88    13,012.95    10,114.07             0    416,275         43.1K
33        6,72S         3.20K       0.4310    2,898.88   13,336.99   10,438.11                    426,713         43.1K
34        7,316         3.20K       0.4310    3,153.28   13,671.42    10,318.14                   437,231         43.1K
35        7,316         3.20K       0.4310    3,153.28   14,008.41    10,855.13              0    448,086         43.1K
36        7,316         3.20K       0.4310    3,153.28   14,356.20   11,202.92                    459,289         43.1K
37        7,958         3.20K       0.4310    3,430.00    14,713.12   11,285.12                   470,574         43.1K
38        7,958         3.20K       0.4310    3,430.00   15,076.69   11,646.69               0    482,221         43.1X
39        7,958         3.20K       0.4310    3,430.00    15,449.84   12,019.84                   494,241         43.1K
40        8,656         3.20K       0.4310    3,731.01   15,834.94   12,103.93                    506,345         43.1K
41        8.656         3.20m       0.4310    3,731.01    16,222.73   12,491.73              0    518,836         43.1K
42        8,656         3.20K       0.4310    3,731.01    16,622.96   12,491.9                    531,728         43.1K
43        9,416         3.20K       0.4310    4,058.43    17,036.00   12,977.57                   5"4,706         43.1K
44        9,416         3.202       0.4310    4,058.43    17,451.79   13,393.36              0    558,099         43.1X
45        9,416         3.20K       0.4310    4,038.43   17,880.90   13,822.46                    571,922         43.1K
46       10,242         3.20K       0.4310    4,414.59   18,323.75   13,909.16                    585,831         43.1Z
47        10,242        3.20K       0.4310    4,414.59   18,769.39   14,354.80               0    600,186         43.1K
48       10,242         3.20K       0.4310    4,414.59    19,229.30    14,814.71                  615,001         43.1K
49       11,141         3.20K       0.4310    4,802.00    19,703.95    14,901.95                  629,902         43.1K
s0       11,141         3.20K       0.4310    4,802.00    20,181.39   15,379.39              0    645,282         43.12
51       11,141         3.20X       0.4310    4,802.00    20,674.13    15,872.13                  661,154         43.1K
52       12.118         3.20K       0.4310    3,223.41   21,182.63   15,959.24                    677,113         43.1K
33        12,118        3.20K       0.4310    5,223.41   21,693.97   16,470.56               0    693,384         43.1K
54       12,118         3.20X       0.4310    5,223.41   22,221.67   16,998.26                     710,582        43.1K
Prepared for the World Bonk by Peter L. Doty on 22-May-92                           Page 1



-106-                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
P0LAOR2.W1         DUAL INOEX MORTGAGE CRDItTS MONTHLY AMORTIZATION- 45.45 N2, IMF 40, GRAT  01, OPT 251
45.45 N2, IMF 40X, GRAT 0O, OPHT 25z      MTHLY AMRTIZATION TABLE                         CAPITALIZATION INTEREST
No        Avg.         1rt.         No.     Cash fn        At.         ng.         Index.      mla.          X
put.        wage        rate         AMW      (out)         Int.       CPU.)        prlnc.      prine        ANW
, .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                            .........      ......    ...  ......    ...... ..... ... ...... ........ ... ...... .
SS       13,182        3.201      0.4310    5,681.60   22,766.27   17,084.4?                 27,666         u.1x
56       13,182        3.201      0.4310    5,681.80   23,313.64   17,631.64           0    745,298         43.1x
ST       13,182        3.20x      0.4310    5,681.80   23,878.55   18,196.74                 763,495        43.1X
58       14,339        3.201      0.4310    6,180.42   24,461.55   18,281.13                 781,776        43.1%
59       14,339        3.201      0.4310    6,180.42   25,047.26   18,866.83           0    800,643         43.11
60       14,339        3.201      0.4310    6,180.42   25,6s1.73   19,471.31                 820,114        43.11
61      1S,597         3.20X     0.4310    6,722.80   26,275.57   19,552.77                  839,67         43.1X
62       15,597        3.20      0.4310    6,722.80   26,902.02   20,179.22           0    859,846         43.1X
63       15,597        3.20X      0.4310    6,722.80   27,548.54   20,825.74                 880,672        43.11
64       16.966        3.201      0.4310    7,312.77   28,215.77   20,903.00                 901,571        43.1X
65       16.966        3.20      0.4310    7,312.77   28,885.48   21,572.71           0    923,148         43.1X
66       16,966        3.201      0.4310    7,312.77   29,576.65   22,263.87                 945,412        43.11
67       18.454        3.20x      0.4310    7,954.52   30,289.96   22,335.43                 967,747        43.11
68-      18,454        3.201      0.4310    7,9S4.52   31,005.56   23,051.04           0    990,798         43.11
69       18,454        3.201      0.4310    7,954.52   31,744.09   23,789.57               1,014,588        43.11
70       20,074        3.201      0.4310    8,652.59   32,506.28   23,853.69               1,038,441        43.11
71       20,074        3.201      0.4310    8,652.59   33,270.53   24,617.94           0  1,063,059         43.11
72       20,074        3.201     0.4310    8,652.59   34,059.26   25,406.67                1,088,466        43.11
73       21,836        3.201      0.4310    9,411.92   34,873.26   25,461.34               1,113,927        43.11
74       21,836        3.201     0.4310    9,411.92   35,689.02   26,277.10            0  1,140,204         43.1X
71       21,836        3.201     0.4310    9,411.92   36,530.91   27,118.99                1,167,323        43.1X
76       23,752        3.20X      0.4310   10,237.88   37,399.77   27,161.89               1,194,485        43.11
TY       23,752        3.201      0.4310   10,237.88   38,270.01   28,032.12           0  1,222,517         43.11
78       23,752       3.20X      0.4310   10,237.88   39,168.13   28,930.24                1,251,448       43.11
79       25,836        3.201     0.4310   11,136.33   40,095.02   28,958.69                1,280,406        43.1X
so       25,836        3.201      0.4310   11,136.33   41,022.82   29,886.49           0  1,310,293         43.11
81       25,836        3.201      0.4310   11,136.33   41,980.35   30,844.02               1,341,137        43.11
82       28,104        3.201      0.4310   12,113.63   42,968.56   30,854.93               1,371,992        43.11
83       28,104        3.201      0.4310   12,113.63   43,957.12   31,843.49            0  1,403,835        43.11
84       28,104        3.20X      0.4310   12,113.63   44,977.35   32,863.72               1,436,699        43.11
85       30,570        3.201      0.4310   13,176.69   46,030.27   32,853.58               1,469,553        43.11
86       30,570        3.20X      0.4310   13,176.69   47,o2.86   33,906.18            0  1,503,459         43.1X
87       30,570        3.201      0.4310   13,176.69   48,169.18   34,992.49               1,538,451        43.11
88       33,253        3.201      U.4310   14,333.04   49,290.30   34,957.26               1,573,409        43.11
89       33,253        3.201      0.4310   14,333.04   50,410.29   36,077.26            0  1,609,486        43.11
90       33,253        3.201      0.4310   14,333.04   51,566.17   37,233.13               1,646,719        43.11
91       36,171        3.201      0.4310   15,590.87   52,759.08   37,168.21               1,683,887        43.11
92       36,171        3.20      0.4310   15,590.87   53,949.91   38,359.04            0  1,722,246        43.11
93       36,171        3.201      0.4310   15,590.87   55,178.89   39,588.02               1,761,834        43.11
94       39,345        3.201      0.4310   16,959.08   56,447.25   39,488.17               1,801,322        43.11
95       39,345        3.201      0.4310   16,959.08   57,712.40   40,753.32            0  1,842,076        43.11
96       39,345        3.201      0.4310   16,959.08   59,018.10   42,059.02               1,884,135        43.11
97       42,798        3.20X      0.4310   18,447.36   60,365.62   41,918.26               1,926,053        43.11
98       42,798       .L20%       0.4310   18,447.36   61,708.64   43,261.27            0  1,969,314        43.1x
99       42,798        3.201      0.4310   18,447.36   63,094.68   44,647.32               2,013,962        43.11
100       46,554       3.20       0.4310   20,066.25   64,525.13   44,458.88                2,058,420        43.11
101      46,554        3.201      0.4310   20,066.25   65,949.55   45,883.29            0  2,104,304         43.11
102      46,554        3.201      0.4310   20,066.25   67,419.60   47,353.34                2,151,657       43.11
103      50,639        3.201      0.4310   21,827.21   68,936.75   47,109.53                2,198,767        43.11
104      50,639        3.20X      0.4310   21,827.21   70,446.08   48,618.87            0  2,247,385         43.11
105      50,639        3.20X      0.4310   21,827.21   72,003.78   50,176.57                2,297,562        43.11
106      55,083        3.20       0.4310   23,742.71   73,611.38   49,868.s7               2,347,431        43.1X
107       55,083        3.201     0.4310   23,742.71   75,209.12   51,466.41             0  2,398,897        43.11
108       55,083        3.20x     0.4310   23,742.71   76,858.0S   53,115.34                2,452,012        43.1x
109      59,917        3.201      0.4310   25,826.31   78,559.81   52,733.50                2,504,746        43.11
Prepared for the World Bank by Peter L. Doty on 22-May-92                      Page 2



-107-                                       Page 4 of 6
POIANOQ2.WKI       DUAL INWFX NORTGAGE CREDItS MIOTHLY ANORTIzATION- 45.45 M2, IMF 40X, GIANT OX, OPHT 252
45.45 M2, IMf 402, GRANT 02, OPNT 25x     MONTHLY AVOTIZATION TASLE                          CAPITALIZATION INTEREST
No   r     Avo.        Int.          No.      Cash In       Apt.         neg.         Index.      Be.            2
Pt.         mage        rat           A1W       (out)         Int.       (poU)        prtnc.      prfne         AMW
._. ....                .......       ...        . .... .     . ....   .. ..... .   ......    ...... ..   ..... ....
l11       59,917        3.20%      0.4310   25,826.31   80,249.33   54,423.02              0  2,559,169        43.1%
I1I       s9,917        3.202      0.4310   25,826.31    81,992.96   56,166.67                 2,615,336       43.12
112       65.173        3.20X      0.4310   28,092.76   83,792.50   55,699.75                  2,671,035       43.12
113       65,175        3.202      0.4310   28,092.76   85,577.06   57,464.31              0  2.728,520        43.12
114       65,175        3.202      0.4310   28,092.76   87,418.80    59,326.04                .2,787,846       43.1%
115       70,8s9        3.20S      0.4310   30,558.10   89,319.54    58,761.44                 2,846,607       43.12
116       70.8s9        3.202      0.4310   30,558.10   91,202.19   60,644.09              0  2,907,251        43.1X
117       70,895        3.20X      0.4310   30,558.10   93,145.16   62,587.06                  2,969,838       43.1X
118       77,116        3.202      0.4310   33,239.80   95,150.38   61,910.59                  3,031,749       43.1X
119       77,116        3.202      0.4310   33,239.80   97,133.93   63,894.13              o  3,095,643        43.1X
120       77,116        3.202      0.4310   33,239.80   99,181.03   65,941.23                  3,161,584       43.12
121       83,884        3.202      0.4310   36,156.83  101,293.71    65,136.88                 3,226,721       43.1X
122       83,884        3.202      0.4310   36,156.83  103,380.63   67,223.80              0  3,293,945        43.12
123 -     83,884        3.20X      0.4310   36,156.83  105,534.40   69,377.57                  3,363,323       43.12
124       91,245        3.20X      0.4310   39,329.86  107,757.19   68,427.33                  3,431,750       43.12
125       91,245        3.202      0.4310   39,329.86  109,949.52   70,619.67              0  3,502,370        43.12
126       91,24S        3.202      0.4310   39,329.86  112,212.10   72,882.24                  3,575,252       43.1X
127       99,253        3.202      0.4310   42,781.34  114,547.17   71,765.83                  3,647,018       43.1X
128       99,253        3.20X      0.4310   42,781.34  116,846.47   74,065.13              0  3,721,083        43.12
129       99,253        3.202      0.4310   42,781.34  119,219.43   76,438.09                  3,797,521       43.12
130      107,963        3.202      0.4310   46,S35.72  121,668.43   73,132.71                  3,872,654       43.1X
131      107,963        3.202      0.4310   46,53s.72  124,075.60   77,s39.88              0  3,950,193        43.12
132      107,963        3.202      0.4310   46,535.72  126,559.89   80,024.17                  4,030,218       43.1X
133      117,437        3.202      0.4310   50,619.56  129,123.78   78,504.21                  4,108,722       43.12
134      117,437        3.20X      0.4310   50,619.56  131,638.97   81,019.40              0  4,189,741        43.12
135      117,437        3.202      0.4310   50,619.56  134,234.74   83,615.18                  4,273,356       43.12
136      127,743        3.202      0.4310   55,061.80  136,913.68   81,851.88                  4,355,208       43.12
137      127,743        3.202      0.4310   55,061.80  139,536.12   84,474.32              0  4,439,683         43.12
138      127,743        3.202      0.4310   55,061.80  142,242.59   87,180.79                  4,526,863        43.12
139      138,954        3.202      0.4310   59,893.88  145,035.77   85,141.89                  4,612,005        43.12
140      138,954        3.202      0.4310   59,893.88  147,763.62   87,869.74              0  4,699,8s7         43.1X
141      138,9S4        3.202      0.4310   59,893.88  130,578.87   90,684.99                  4,790,560        43.12
142      151,148        3.202      0.4310   65,150.00  153,484.32   88,334.32                  4,87a,894        43.12
143      151,148        3.202      0.4310   65,150.00  156,314.45   91,164.45              0  4,970,059        43.12
44       151,148        3.202      0.4310   65,150.00  159,235.26   94,085.26                  5,064,144        43.12
145      164,412        3.202      0.4310   70,867.39  162,249.65   91,382.26                  5,155,526       43.12
146      164,412        3.202      0.4310   70,867.39  165,177.44   94,310.05              0  5,249,836         43.12
147      164,412        3.202       0.4310   70,867.39  168,19.03   97,331.64                  5,347,168        43.12
148      178,841        3.20%      0.4310   77,086.52  171,317.43   94,230.91                  5,441,39         43.1X
149      178,841        3.202      0.4310   77,086.52  174,336.49   97,249.97              0  5,538,649         43.1X
150      178,841        3.20X      0.4310   77,086.52  177,452.27  100,365.75                  5,639,015        43.12
151      194,535        3.202       0.4310   83,81.43  1ao,667.88   96,816.45                  5,735,831        43.1X
152      194,535        3.20z       0.4310   83,851.43  183,769.77   9,918.3S              0  5,835,749         43.1X
153      194,s35        3.202      0.4310   83,851.43  186,971.05  103,119.62                  5,938,869       43.12
154      211,607        3.20X      0.4310   91,210.00  190,274.89   9,064.89                   6,037,934       43.12
1ss      211,607        3.202      0.4310   91,210.00  193,48.82  102,238.82               0  6,140,173         43.12
156      211,607        3.20%       0.4310   91,210.00  16,724.44   105,514."4                 6,245,687        43.12
157      230,177        3.202      0.4310   99,214.35  200,105.01  100,890.66                  6,346,578        43.12
158      230,177        3.20X       0.4310   99,214.35  203,337.43  104,123.09             0  6,450,701         43.1X
159      230,177        3.202       0.4310    9,214.35  206,673.42  107,459.08                 6,558,160        43.12
160      250,377        3.202       0.4310  107,921.13  210,116.30  102,195.17                 6,660,355        43.12
161      250,377        3.202       0.4310  107,921.13  213,390.52  105,469.39             0  6,765,825         43.1X
162      250,377        3.20X       0.4310  107,921.13  216,769.64  108,848.1                  6,874,673        43.12
163      272,349        3.202       0.4310  117,392.00  220,257.03  102,865.03                 6,977,538        43.1X
164      272,349        3.202       0.4310  117,392.00  223,552.71  106,160.72             0  7,083,699         43.12
Prepared for the UorLd Bank by Peter L. DOty on 22-May-92                         Page 3



-108-                             ~~~~~~ANNEX I
-108-                                        Page 5 of 6
POLAMOR2.WKI       DtUAL INDEX NORTGAGE CREDITS MONTHLY AMORTIZATION- 45.45 142, IMP 40X, GRAT 0m, OPFT 2s%
45.45 M2, IMF 40X, GRAT 0%, DPNT 25z      NONTHLY AORTIZATION TABLE                          CAPITALIZATION INTEREST
,,,,................................ .....  ..----*e--j- .....................  Aort         .......................
No         Avg.        tnt.          No.      Cash in        Amt.        ng.         Index.       ht.           X
Pat.        wage        rate          AtW      (out)          Int.       (poJ)        prfno.      prtno         ANW
... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .....                                  ......     ....  ....      ---......... .. ... ... ......... ..... ... ...... .
165      272,349        3.         0.4310  117,392.00   226,953.99   109,561.99               7,193,261        u.1x
166      296,250        3.20%      0.4310  127,694.00  230,464.23   102,770.23                7,296,031        43.1%
167      296,250        3.20       0.4310  127,694.00  233,756.88  106,062.88              0  7,402,094        43.1%
168      296,250        3.20%      0.4310   127,694.00  237,155.02  109,461.01                7,511,555        43.1%
169      322,248        3.20%      0.4310  138,900.09  240,662.03  101,761.94                 7,613,317        43.1%
170      322,248        3.20%      0.4310  138,900.09  243,922.37  105,022.29              0  7,718,339        43.1%
171      322,248        3.20%      0.4310   138,900.09  247,287.17  108,387.09                7,826,n6         43.1%
172      350,528        3.20%      0.4310  151,089.58  250,759.77   99,670.19                 7,926,396        43.1%
173      350,528        3.20X      0.4310  151,089.58  253,953.10  102,863.52              0  8,029,260        43.1%
174      350,528        3.20X      0.4310   151,089.58  257,248.73  106,159.15                8,135,419        43.1%
175      381,289        3.20%      0.4310  164,348.80  260,649.96   96,301.16                 8,231,720        43.1%
176      381,289        3.20%      0.4310   164,348.80   263,735.34   99,386.54            0  8,331,107        43.1%
177      381,289        3.20%      0.4310   164,348.80  266,919.58  102,570.78                8,433,678        43.1%
178 -    414,750        3.20%      0.4310  178,771.61   270,205.83   91,434.23                8,525,112        43.1%
179      414,750        3.20%      0.4310  178,771.61  273,135.29   94,363.68              0 .8,619,475        43.1%
180      414,750        3.20%      0.4310  178,771.61  276,158.60   97,386.99                 8,716,862        43.1%
181      -.51,147       3.20%      0.4310  194,460.12  279,278.77   84,818.65                 8,801,681        43.1%
182      451,147        3.20%      0.4310  194,460.12  281,996.27   87,536.15              0  8,889,217        43.1%
183      451,147        3.20%      0.4310  194,460.12  284,800.83   90,340.71                 8,979,558        43.1%
184      490,739        3.20%      0.4310  211,525.'.2  287,695.25   76,169.83                9,05,728         43.1%
185      490,739        3.20%      0.4310  211,525.42  290,135.65   78,610.23              0  9,134,338        43.1%
186      490,739        3.20%      0.4310  211,525.42  292,654.23   81,128.82                 9,215,467        43.1%
187      533,805        3.20%      0.4310  230,088.32  295,253.51   65,165.19                 9,280,632        43.1%
188      533,805        3.20%      0.4310  230,088.32  297,341.33   67,253.02              0  9,347,885        43.1%
189      533,805        3.20%      0.4310  230,088.32  299,496.05   69,407.73                 9,417,293        43.1%
190      580,650        3.20%      0.4310  250,280.25  301,719.79   51,439.55                  9,468,732       43.1%
191      580,650        3.20%      0.4310  250,280.25  303,367.86   53,087.61              0  9,521,820        43.1%
192      580,650        3.20X      0.4310  250,280.25  305,068.73   54,788.48                 9,576,608        43.1%
193      631,606        3.20%      0.4310  272,244.17  306,824.09   34,579.93                 9,611,188        43.1%
194      631,606        3.20       0.4310  272,244.17  307,932.00   35,687.83              0  9,646,876        43.1%
195      631,606        3.20%      0.4310  272,244.17  309,075.40   36,831.23                 9,683,707        43.1%
196      687,035        3.20%      0.4310  296,135.58  310,255.43   14,119.85                 9,697,827        43.1x
197      687,035        3.20%      0.4310  296,135.58  310,707.81    14,572.3              0  9,712,399        43.1%
198      687,035        3.20%      0.4310  296,135.58  311,174.69   15,039.11                  9,727,439       43.1%
199      747,327        3.20%      0.4310  322,123.64  311,656.53  (10,467.12)                 9,716,971       43.1%
200      747,327        3.20%      0.4310  322,123.64  311,321.17  (10,802.47)             0  9,706,169         43.1%
201      747,327        3.20X      0.4310  322,123.64  310,975.07  (11,148.57)                 9,695,020        43.1%
202      812,910        3.0        0.4310  350,392.35  310,617.88  (39,774.46)                 9,655,246        43.1%
203      812,910        3.20%      0.4310  350,392.35   309,343.55  (41,048.79)            0  9,614,197         43.1%
204      812,910        3.20       0.4310  350,392.35  308,028.40  (42,363.95)                 9,571,833        43.1%
205      884,249        3.20z      0.4310  381,141.83  306,671.10  (74,470.73)                 9,497,362        43.1%
206      884,249        3.20%      0.4310  381,141.83  304,285.14  (76,856.69)             0  9,420,506         43.1%
207      84,7249        3.20%      0.4310  381,141.83  301,822.74  (79,319.10)                 9,341,187        43.1%
208      961,848        3.20X      0.4310  414,589.82  2"9,281.44  (115,308.38)                9,225,878        43.1%
209      961,848        3.20%      0.4310  414,589.8s  295,587.08  (119,002.73)            0  9,106,876         43.1%
210      961,841        3.20%      0.4310  414,589.82  291,774.37 (122,815.45)   .             8,984,060        43.1%
211    1,046,258        3.20%      0.4310  450,973.10   287,839.49  (163,133.61)               8,820,927        43.1%
212    1,046,258        3.20%      0.4310  450,973.10  282,612.87 (168,360.53)             0  8,652,566         43.1
213    1,046,258        3.20%      0.4310  450,973.10   277,218.79  (173,734.31)               8,478,812        43.1%
214    1,138,074        3.20%      0.4310  490,549.28  271,651.89  (218,897.39)                8,259,915        43.1%
215    1,138,074        3.20X      0.4310  490,549.28  264,638.66  (225,910.63)            0  8,034,004         43.1%
216    1,138,074        3.20X      0.4310  490,549.28  257,400.73 (233,148.56)                 7,800,855        43.1%
217    1,237,949        3.20%      0.4310  533,598.57  249,930.90  (283,667.66)                7,517,188        43.1%
218    1,237,949        3.202      0.4310  533,598.57  240,842.50  (292,756.07)            0  7,224,432         43.1%
219    1,237,949        3.Z0%      0.4310  533,598.57  231,462.92  (302,135.65)                6,922,296        43.1%
Prepared for the Wortd Bank by Peter L. Doty an 22-May-92                         Page 4



ANNEX I
-109-                                     Page 6 of 6
POLAHOR2.WKI      DUAL INDEX MORTGAGE CREOITS MOTHLY AMORTIZATION- 45.45 N2, IMF 401, GRANT 0X, OPHT 2sx
45.45 M2. INF 401, GRANT 0X, OPNT 251    MTHLY AMORTIZATION TABLE                        CAPITALIZATION INTEREST
No        Avg.        Int.         No.      Cash In       Ant.        nes.       Index.      Bet.          X
put.       # 9         rate         AMW       (out)        Int.       (pon)       prlnr.      prlnr        AMY
...        .. ...      ....    .    ....                   ....  .  ... ....      .....  .  ... .... ....   ................ ..... ... ...... .
220    1,346,58        3.20x      0.4310  580,425.74  221,72.82 (358,642.92)              6,s53,653        43.1X
221    1,346,588       3.20      0.4310  580,425.74  210,292.29 (370,133.45)          0  6,193,520        43.11
222    1,346,588       3.20      0.4310  580,425.74  196,433.62 (381,992.12)             5,811,528        43.11
223    1,464,761       3.201      0.4310  631,362.34  186,195.ol  S445,167.33)            5,366,360        43.11
224    1,464,761       3.201      0.4310  631,362.34  171,932.33 (459,430.01)          0  4,506,930        43.11
22s    1,464,761       3.201      0.4310  631,362.34  157,212.69 (474,149.65)             4,432,781        43.11
226    1,593,304       3.20z      0.4310  686,769.00  142,021.46 (544,747.54)             3,888,033        43.1X
227    1,593,304       3.201      0.4310  686,769.00  124,568.34  (562,200."6)         0  3,325,832        43.1X
228    1,593,304       3.201      0.4310  686,769.00  106,556.04 (580,212.95)             2,745,619        43.11
229    1,733,128       3.20x      0.4310  747,038.00   87,966.6s (659,071.34)             2,086,548        43.11
230    1.733,128       3.20x      0.4310  747,038.00   66,850.72 (680,187.27)          0  1,406,361        43.1X
231    1,733.128       3.20x      0.4310  747,038.00   45,038.27 (701,979.73)               704,381        43.11
232    1,885,223       3.20%      0.3856  726,948.65   22,567.60 (704.381.05)                     0        38.61
233 -  1,885,223       3.201      0.0000       0.00        0.00        0.00            0          0         0.01
Prepared for the World Bank by Peter L. Doty on 22-May-92                     Page 5



-110-                           ANNEX J
Page 1 of 9
PROJEC PROFES
The following descriptions provide information on ten projects which have been submitted
to the Housing Finance Project Office (HEPO). As of the end of November, 1991, the
HFPO has received over 50 complete loan applications, with total project costs of
approximately S 270 million for the construction of more than 9000 units. Another 10 partial
loan applications have been submitted. Project applicatons have been submitted during quite
a long period starting in 1990. That is why detailed finaneial information(i.e. total project
cost, cost per square meter and so on) should be treated cautiously. But statistical and
physical data are still useful. Projects have been evaluated and listed according to ratio of the
estimated final price per one square meter to the average market price per one square meter
of an apartment in the similar area .
Folowing are'descriptions of some exemplary projects.
Siedlce - M1ynarska Housing Complex
Siedlce, a town of approximately 75,000 persons in eastern Poland, is preparing a project
which will dramatically alter current land use and increase population densities. Like many
Polish towns, Siedlce's urban landscape is characterized by huge high-rise block buildings
sitting on large land parcels, with the wide serviced setbacks between the buildings and
streets left completely vacant.
In Siedlce, the municipality proposes to build new in-fill low-rise 4-story buildings with
commercial areas on the ground floor, using fully serviced land on the northem border of
an existing high-rise housing development "Mlynarska". The initial design calls for the
construction of 108 units on a 1.6-hectare project site, with total project costs estimated at
US$ 1.783 million.
Architecturally, the design will revitalize the old Starowiejska street and form a new street
facade with commercial spaces. The construction of the first building was started in the fall
of 1991 and the second floor level has been built before the winter, costing approximately
US$ 80,000 in municipal resources. The cost of construction at Zl 2.6 million zl per m2 of
usable area seems to be moderate. The first building should be completed by November
1992 when the mortgage credit will be expected.
The Siedlce Municipality is in close contact with the HFPO and wiWing to cooperate on an
as needed-basis to complete success- fully the Mlynarska Project and continue the
cooperation by next projects.
Total number of units:         108
Total number of hectares:      1.6
Total project costs:          $1.783 million
Averge per unit cost:         $16,510
1



- 1 1 1 -                        ANNEX J
Gdynia                                                            Page 2 of 9
Gdynia, a principal port town on the northern Baltic coast with just over 252,000 inhabitants,
has proposed three projects for review which are described separately below.
Gdynia #1 - Redlowo Zielona: The municipality owns a 5.6-hectare building lot in the center
of town which is already serviced by primary infrastructure. A major thoroughfare abuts the
site, and the site itself is divided by an existing road into 2-hectare and 3.7-hectare segments,
but both parts will be developed simultaneously. Through competitive bidding, the city has
chosen a private architectural firm to act as developers, and they are currently negotiating
the terms for selling or leasing the land to the project. The design calls for the construction
of 4- and 5-story residential buildings, with road frontage buildings having ground floor
commercial areas.  Many of the residential buildings will have inner courtyards.
Approximately 500 new units will be constructed. The units will be sold at market prices
which will include cost recovery of infrastructure and land. The total project cost is
currently estimated at $19.1 million.
Total number of units:        496
Total number of hectares:     5.6
Total project costs:          $19.1 million
Average per unit cost:        $27,746
dyz"a #2 - Cechowa (Posejdon Cooperative): In 1989, one of Gdynia's smaller
cooperatives, Posejdon, purchased 6.2 hectares at market prices and commenced construction
on the first 24 rowhouses of a planned 127 units. The property is served by primary
infrastructure, but its topography prevents full use of the property for residential
purposes.The cooperative is requesting financing to build 99 rowhouses. The site plan and
architectural drawinigs have been prepared, first 24 units should have walls and roofs finished
till the end of March 1992.
Total number of units:        9
Total number of hectares:     0.08
Total project costs:          $0.6 million
Average per unit cost:        $42,201
Gdynia #3 - Orlowo: The local developer, Novum/CIC, proposed a project of a small
housing complex, for 17 units in rowhouses (10 units), small multi-family building (6 units)
and one single family building. The design as well as the construction process is supposed
to be conducted by a Danish Group, "Green Way", and should result in a attractive, high
quality, low energy consumption, long lasting and easily maintained.
The project site is well chosen as far as ecological conditions are concerned, surrounded by
existing single family houses and with old trees on the lot.
Of course, the final cost of the unit will be much higher than the Polish standard one;
according to the latest information provided by the developer it should not exceed US$ 750



ANNEX J
-112-                        Page 3 of 9
per m2 of usable area (US$ 500 per m2 of usable --ea for construction, infrastructure and
design).
Total number of units:         17
Total number of hectares:      0.55
Total project costs:           $1.3 million
Average per unit cost:         $76,000
Czastochowa - John Paul II
Czestochowa is a light industrial city in south central Poland with a population of under
300,000. Czestochowa is also Poland's religious center since it serves as the home for the
famous Black Madonna. The city intends to act as the developer in this project, while the
contractor will be selected through competitive bidding. The city proposes to construct four
4- and 5-story apartment buildings which will take up a full square block in the city's center.
A total of 141 units will be constructed. Provision has been made for commercial space, as
well as above- and below-grade parldng. The land is owned by the city, but small garden
plots have been established on the property, and the city may be required to pay
compensation to the users before construction can begin. As with many projects in Poland,
real estate ownership records also need to be updated.
Total number of units:         141
Total number of hectares:      1.24
Total project costs:           $2.6 million
Average per unit cost:         $14,160
Nowy Sacz - Zawada I and II
Nowy Sacz is a town in southern Poland with a population of 75,000 at the foothills of the
Carpathian Mountains. There is some light industry in the town, primarily ceramics and
food processing. However, due to its picturesque location and proximity to health resorts,
development in Nowy S4cz will continue along the lines of tourism.
Two housing projects have been submitted by a private company, Homol, which is the owner
of the adjacent properties on which the projects will be constructed. Architectural drawings
have been prepared for both projects. Work on Zawada II will be started first, and will
result in 203 units in a mixture of multi-story flats and rowhouses. The project is being built
in conjunction with the Smreld Cooperative. Zawada I is more of a commercial
development, and currently Homol is preparing a marketing brochure. Zawada I consists of
92 rowhouses. Total project costs for both costs are estimated at just over US$ 10 million.
In the fall, 1991, the construction of the first building in Zawada I has been started using
company resources.
The company will need short-term credit in March-April 1992 to complete the first building
by the fall, 1992.
3



-113-                      ANNEX J
Zawada I                                              Page 4 of 9
Total number of units:        92
Total number of hectares:      3.81
Total project costs:          $3.9 million
Average per unit cost:        $30,427
Zawada II
Total number of units:         203
Total number of hectares:      4.60
Total project costs:          $6.2 million
Average per unit cost:        $22,318
Katowice - Stary Dwdr
Katowice, the old center of mining and steel industry, is the greatest part of the large urban
area inhabited by more than 2 million people. As the result of the Local Housing Strategy,
the city proposes constructing the "Stary Dw6r" (Old Manor House) project: a large (20.07
hectares) housing development in the best possible ecological location in Katowice named
Bryn6w. A private developer, Polcon Ltd, will organize the whole investment process.
In the proposed housing complex 446 units have been designed: 410 apartments in multi-
storey buildings and 36 units in one-family houses. Commercial areas have been designed
in the multi-storey buildings. Buildings have very good DEF (Design Efficiency Factor),
with relatively limited circulation and service areas. Construction will use traditional
building technologies. Pursuant to HFPO guidelines, the development has been divided into
stages as far as construction process and infrastructure supply is concerned.
Total number of units:        446
Total number of hectares:     20.07
Total project costs:           $10.000 million
Average per unit cost:        $20,850
Krakow - ZSM Cooperative (Projects ABC & G)
Krak6w, the country's cultural center in the south with over 700,000 inhabitants, has
proposed a project which represents a transition within the cooperative sector to a market-
oriented system. One of the city's larger cooperatives is irn the process of assembling 9.25
hectares for new housing construction. This land is privately-owned and close to nearby
infrastructure, and the cooperative is purchasing it at market price. The land itself is being
divided into seven smaller areas, for seven sub-groups on the cooperative's waiting list, and
these areas will be designed and constructed through competitive bidding. A total of 514
units are planned. The units will be sold at market prices with first priority given to
cooperative members, but if there is insufficient demand for them by cooperative members,
then they will be offered to the community at large. The final selling price of the units will
4



-114-                          ANNEX J
Page 5 of 9
include land, construction, project development and infrastructure costs. The project will
receive no municipal subsidies.
ZSM Cooperative has applied to the HFPO for financing the first phase of this development.
In this phase, 217 units will be built with total project costs estimated at $4.3 million.
Total number of units:         217
Total number of hectares:      1.54
Total project costs:           $4.3 million
Average cost per unit:         $17,589
Krakdw - Inwestprojekt, gwiqtokrzyska Street
Cooperative for Investments and Designs "Inwestprojekt" in Krak6w, acting as an investment
manager on behalf of "Piast" Housing Cooperative, proposes a design for an in-fill building,
located in the quarter Krowodrza some 5 Idlometers from the city center on a building lot
of .2 hectares. In this 5-storey building there will be 16 apartments with net usable area of
882.2 m2 and 334.5 m2 of commercial area on the ground floor. There is full existing
infrastructure accessibility, as well as social services. According to latest information,
working drawings have been finished, some contractors have submitted their offers (ZL 3.0-
3.5 million per rn2 of NUA), and initial negotiations with PKO State Bank have been started.
The project is ready for the spring 1992 construction season.
Total number of units:         16
Total number of hectares:      0.2
Total project costs:           $390,000
Average per unit cost:         $16,213
Opole - Habitat
Opole is a voivodship town in southwest Poland with 130,000 inhabitants. On the eastern
outskirts of the city, near the road to Czestochowa and close to a hospital under construction,
the local medical personnel have organized the Medyk Housing Cooperative and obtained a
building site for housing development. The project's investment manager is a private firm,
"Habitat". The proposed design is very interesting both from architectural and financial
point of view. It is a classical low-rise high-density complex, with rowhouses and duplexes.
Advanced technology of construction (in-situ RC bearing wails, sandwich type light exterior
walls) results in low-cost and relatively fast construction. Before the final approval of the
project, off-site infrastructure supply must be checked very thoroughly, as some municipality
participation in financing of it is concerned.
Total number of units:         221
Total number of hectares:      0.9
Total project costs:           $6.087 million
Average cost per unit:         $27,150
5



-115-                           ANNEX J
Wolin - Wineta Cooperative                                        Page 6 of 9
Wolin, a town of approximately 5,000 inhabitants, is located on the Wolin Island. A local
housing cooperative has a very attractive location, the site of 0,87 hectares in the center of
the city which is near an international road, 26 kIlometers from ferryboats to Sweden and
Denmark and 40 Idlometers from the airport Goleni6w.
For this site, the Wineta Cooperative has submitted the proposal to build 69 apartments in
3-storey buildings, with additional flats on the roof and a large commercial space in the
ground floor. The first project has been made for RC panel technology and has been heavily
criticized by HFPO architects both of economical and aesthetic reasons. The new project is
now under preparation, using RC frame and light sandwich walls. Some preparation works
were started in the fall, 1991; namely, water and electricity installations have been finished.
The cooperative is in contact with HFPO, and a new application is expected-to be submitted.
Total number of units:        69
Total number of hectares:     0,87
Total project costs:          $1,445 million
Average per unit cost:        $17.951
Warszawa - Fabryczna
One of largest Warsaw Cooperatives, Sr6dmiejska Sp6ldzielnia Mieszkaniowa ("City Center
Cooperative"), owns many multi-storey buildings constructed in the central area of Warsaw
in 1960s and 1970s. In some cases there are possibilities for new infills or semi-infills (new
free-standing buildings in the existing neighborhoods). That is the case of the Fabryczna
Project which is located on a rather quiet corner lot where SSM proposed a new building
with 55 flats. The project's total net usable area will be 3,900 m2 with an underground
garage for 34 cars and ground floor and second floor commercial areas. The design and
construction wUI be conducted by HBB Joint Venture Ltd., offering advanced housing
technology: in-situ concrete frame in the garage. The costs are reasonable; infrastructure
already exists on the site; and the land belongs to the cooperadve. Apartments'are large, but
SSM has a huge stock of small apartments with relatively wealthy members waiting for
bigger ones. The average unit size is 71 m2 of usable area. Some suggestions concerning
particular solutions in the design have been made already by the HFPO's Architect.
Total number of units:        55
Total number of hectares:     0,29
Total project costs:          $3.36 million
Average per unit cost:        $25.782
6



Project Pipeline at 31 Dec 91                                                                     17*Nar-92
- 116-                                     XN: 
ANNEX J
Page 7 of 9
Poltnd Housing Finance Project
Project Profiles - Gencrel Dat
Prolect  ame   City              Total      Number Average   Estimated    Estfmated  Nurwr of   Area         Oensity
project      of    usable    cost per      cost per inhabitants(heetares)per hectare
cost      units   area       unit /1      unit /1
tS)               Cw2)        (Z O         (S)
I Arka Lindleya   Lodz           S1,594,615      76    57.2    179,992,138   S18,947          266      0.65       409.2
2 TKP Lindley.   Lodz            S1166,149        60    57.2    161,375,586   S16,987         210       0.61      344.3
3 TKP Lisclista   Lodz           S4,291,727      210    49.7   167,551,066   S17,637          790       1.22      647.5
4 Polesfe 1       Lodz           53,091,008      152    51.7    173,289,636    $18,241        546       1.34      407.5
S Potesi 2        Lolz             S994,664       50    50.3    169,520,586   $17,844         177       0.44      402.3
6 Zelel nic       Torun          S9,359,987    456    53.3    152,879,788    $16,093         1,394      5.32      262.0
7 Pod Sorem       Skierniewice S10,035,726       453    81.5    174,683,663    S18,388      1,805      15.50      116.5
8 Cachowa         Gdynia         54,203,112       99   126.9    229,494,161    S24,157        490       4.96       98.8
9 Mlynarska       Siedlce        S2,201,958      108    92.8    139,069,959   S14,639        .?M1 ..    1.60      275.6
10 Warazawska 11   Siedtce        S2,491,609       87   100.5    211,944,281    S22,310        110       1.04      490.4
11 Folwarczna      Gdynlea          $694,do9       17   101.3    262,270,325    $27,607         55 ,   0.55        100.0
12 orlawo          Gdynfa           $588,853        9    97.8    400,910,751    542,201         39       0.08      462.1
13 Project ABC     Krakow         54,312,681      217    75.0    167,091,546    $17,589        885       1.54      573.6
14 Project G       Krakow           5807,321       38    77.4    179,225,262    S18,866        170       0.50      341.4
15 John Paul 11    Czestochowa    52,565,994      141    91.3    134,522,701    S14,160        564       1.24      455.0
16 Zoliborz        Warszawa       S2,475,069       58    69.0    301,211,630   S31,706         216       0.46      469.6
17 Stary Fordon I Bydgoszcz      518,506,582     360   125.0    482,507,708   S50,790        1,440       5.76      250.0
18 Stary Fordon 2  Bydgosacz      S1,296,529      50    63.5    197,294,106    120,768.        180      0.40       450.0
19 Stary Fordon 3  Bydgoszcz      57,006,982     300    63.3    172,584,292    518,167       1,080      2.50       432.0
20 Piaski          Bydgoszcz     S16,565,441      500    80.4    244,870,3S6   525,776       1,800    l.00        180.0
21 Fordon N        Bydgoszcz     S24,639,230    1000    62.8    182,295,807   S19,189        3,500      15.00      233.3
22 Project I       Wroclaw        53,773,158      119    59.8    301,218,487   531,707         514       6.20       82.9
23 Projset 2       Wractaw       512,016,737    385    53.3    273,739,901    528,815        1,418      13.14      107.9
24 Project 3       Wroclaw       S22,454,401      491    55.3    414,967,823   543,681       1,898      22.40       84.7
2S Redlowo Zielanoa Gdynia       519,060,960      496   100.0    263,586,945   527,746       2,276       5.61      405.7
26 Zawada I        Nowy Sacz      53,870,7n4       92    94.7    289,058,968   S30,427         394       3.81      103.4
27 Zawada 11       Nowy Sacz      56,164,109      203    72 .1    212,024,103   522,318        732       4.60      159.1
28 MSM             Lebork           5850,605       29    59.7    185,857,250    $19,564        101       0.11      899.4
29 Stary Dwor      Katowice      511,742,096    4,.6   66.0    219,848,365    523,142        1,374      3.46       397.1
30 Queen Jadwiga   Gizycko        53,776,679      178    45.0    1SS,204,527   516,337         629       2.38      264. 3
31 Srod. Twortych  Lodz             S491,931       30    50.7    131,118,539   513,802          105      0.28      374.5
32 Swietokrzyska   Krakow            5390,032      16    55.1    154,025,032    516,213          56      0.23      248.6
33 Blezanow I      Krakow         51,120,502       52    60.3    152,486,302    516,051        200       0.95      211.2
34 Baezanow 2      Krakow          51,165,731      60    60.9    161,114,703    516,959        235       1.10      212.8
35 Bfozanow 3      Krakow         S1,102,959       51    62.2    176,956,787   518,627         206       0.96      214.6
36 Biezanow 4      Krakow           5678,669       32    65.4    176,012,928    518,528         139      0.63      219.9
37 Sawickiej       KlucWbork      S2,288,9"3      111    63.6    147,516,295    515,528        423       1.27      333.1
38 Sojary I        Bialystok       51,018,525      60    48.6    134,721,937   $14,181          180      0.29      629.4
39 Sojary 2        Bialystok      54,109,883      182    42.8    162,182,314   517,072          736      1.42      517.0
40 Wlasny Dom      Sialystok       51,338,632      32   136.5    358,063,031   $37,691          131      1.00      131.0
41 Habitat         OpoLo           57,364,000     221   139.8    275,400,271    $28,90       1,060      5.30      200.1
42 Semafor         W-wa  Ulochy   54,994,316       67     138    621,046,922    565,373        409          3      136.3
43 SGN             W-wa Urwynow   51,831,158       76    80.9    170,164,000    517,912        323       0.90      358.9
44 Animator        Krzepice         S830,7M3       42    58.2    148,454,881    S15,627         160      0.77      207.8
45 Limanowskfogo   Ostrow         54,438,947      197    58.9    183,664,264    519,333         732      2.33      314.2
46 PrzybyszewskiefoLodz           51,114,186       36    81.1    202,580,737   S21,324          180      0.44      409.1
47 UstronnmCPert)  Lodz           52,783,827      120    73.8   184,683,705   S19,440          470       1.02      460.8
48 Wineta          Woin           S1,673,800       69    62.5    170,533,571    517,951        261       0.87      300.0
49 Rozyck1ego      Lodz              5484,942      26    57.6    156,990,783   S16,525          41       0.21      195.2
50 SN Kopernik     KotLowo        S9,530,523      161    93.9    383,529,575    S40,372        746       8.91       83.7
51 Lumel           Zielona Gore  $2,339,572       115    58.2    170,463,220   $17,943         395       1.02      387.3
52 Sikorskiego     Glowno         S2,434,603      140    53.6    142,241,690    514,973        450       1.32      340.9
53 Almebud         Lodz-Andrespo S2,365,053        50   133.0    305,564,800    S32,165        340       3.00      113.3
54 Ptnoe S.A.     Lodz-Liseiast S5,925,242       130   116.2    318,686,868    533,546         530      1.22      434.4
55 Fabryczna HBe   Wdrrszaa       53,358,579       55    70.9    371,275,636   S39,082          176      0.29      606.9
56 S.M.            Lipiany          S861,053       44    64.3    159,881,818    S16,830         162      0.88      184.1
57 Praconicza S Jablonn          $S1,325,323       66    67.0    176,267,951    518,555        274       0.44      622.7
Total nunber of projects:                57
Total project costs (S):       S269,960,750                        Total inha    35,014
Total nuiimr of units:                9,121                        Total hect        172
Average unit coot (Z):          281,178,284                        Average de        203
Average unit cost (S):               29,598



Project Pipeline at 31 Dec 91                                                                     17-Nar-92
-117-
Poland Housing Finance Project                                                                          ANNEX J
Project Profiles   Financial Suary                                                                      Page 8 of 9
Project Name  City               Totat                Cost components:                               Sourcem of financing:
estimated
project  Construction Land   Infra- Prepar-   Equfty  Deposits   HFP    Other  Cash   Other
bosat                       structure ation                       Credit  loans  floiw  sources
(Z bi nsa)                                                             Fund
Arks Lindleya  Lodz                15.149        68.9X  19.3%    3.51  8.31        26.31      0.0X   42.2X  0.01   0.0%   31.51
TKP Lindleya   Lodz                11.078        52.2%  24.81     9.3X 13.71       24.81    20.01    55.21   0.01   0.01    0.01
TKP Lisc1asta  Lodz                40.771        50.2%  13.5X   23.3X  13.0X       13.51      0.01   53.21   0.0%   0.01   33.31
Polesie I      Lodz                29.365        69.31  20.51     6.91   3.31      20.61    10.01   69.41   0.0%   0.0X    0.0X
Polesfe 2      Lodz                 9.449        69.11  20.81     6.91   3.2%      20.7X    10.01    69.31   0.01   0.01    0.0X
Zielenfec      Torun               88.920        60.81   6.01    22.51  10.7X      27.91      0.01    65.31   0.01   0.01    6.81
Pod Sorm_      Skferniewice        95.339        73.3X   4.9X    19.91   1.91      24.4X      6.31    56.01   0.01  13.41    0.0X
cechowa        Gdynia              39.930        63.01  12.4%    17.21   7.41      20.01      0.0%   80.01   0.01   0.01    0.0o
Nlynarsks      Sledlca             20.919        74.01  11.01    10.01   5.01                                              100.0X
Warizawska 1I  Siedlce             23.670        78.11   6.31     7.81   7.81       6.31      O.`X%   73.7X   0.01   0.01   20.01
Fotwarozna     Gdynia              6.596         59.81  16.71     8.11  15.41       2.01      0.0%   64.81   0.01  33.21    0.01
Orlowo         Gdynia               5.594        80.0X   4.3X    9.21   6.51        11.81     0.01    67.81  12.51   0.01    7.9X
Project ABC    Krakow              40.970        85.31   7.51     2.31  4.91       30.01      0.01   65.01   0.01   5.01    0.01
Project G      Krakow               7.670        79.31  13.0X    2.91   4.81       30.01      0.01    56.21   0.01  13.81    0.01
John Paul II  Czestochowa          24.377        82.81   5.51     7.11   4.61      34.31      0.01    51.11   0.01  14.61    0.01
ZoLiborz       Warszawa            23.513        78.81   6.81     5.31   9.11       8.81      0.01    91.21   0.0X   0.01    0.01
Stary Fordon 1 Bydgoszcz          175.813        85.81   4.9X    4.51  4.81        20.01      6.21    73.8%  0.01   0.01    0.01
Stary Fordon 2 Bydgoszcz           12.317        75.31   4.9X    15.1X  4.8X       24.51      0.01    75.51   0.01   0.0%    0.01
Stary Fordon 3 Bydgoszcz           66.566        85.91   5.61     3.71  4.81       20.0%      6.01    74.01   0.01   0.01    0.01
Piaski         Bydgoszcz          157.372        72.41   9.51    11.51  6.61       20.0%      6.91    73.11   0 0X   0.01    0.0%
Fordon N       Bydgoszcz         234.073         80.91   9.61     2.91   6.6X      19.71      7.2%    73.11  0.01   0.01    0.01
Project I      Wroclaw             35.845        56.51  10.31    29.21  4.01       49.2%    13.21    12.41   0.01  25.21    0.01
Project 2      Uroclaw            114.159        53.31  11.51    31.2%  4.01       50.6a    12.31    12.61   0.01  24.51    0.01
Project 3      Wroclaw            213.317        49.01  14.01   33.01  4.01        52.0%    10.5X    13.21   0.01  24.31    0.01
Redlowo Ziolon&Gdynia             t81.0T         85.01   6.21     3.61  5.21        12.51    65.0%    0.5X   0.01   0.01   22.01
Zawada I       Nowy Sacz           36.772        77.91   6.2X    13.21  2.71       26.41      0.01   64.51   0.01   0.01    9.11
Zawads It      Nowy Sacz           58.559       80.11   4.71      5.9%  6.31       21.81      0.01   69.11   0.01   0.01    9.21
MSM            Lebork               8.081        81.01   3.51    10.11  5.41       32.11      0.01    67.91   0.0X   0.01    0.01
Stary Owor     Katowice           111.550        68.61   4.71    19.71   7.01       7.01    25.11   48.5X   0.01   0.01   19.41
Queen Jadwfga  Gizycko             35.878        78.0%  10.01    10.0X  2.01         NA        NA       NA     NA     NA      MA
Srod. Twortych Loaz                 4.673        63.61   0.61    20.31  15.61       0.61    19.5X   79.91   0.01   0.01    0.01
SwietokrzYska  Krakow               3.705        79.41   9.11     6.81   4.CX      30.01      0.0,   48.6X   0.01  21.41    0.01
Biezanow I    Krakow               10.645        71.01   7.11     8.8X  13.1%      36.11      0.01    63.91   0.01   0.0X   0.01
Biezanow 2    Krakow               11.074        70.51   8.01     8.51  13.01      36.8%      0.0X   63.2%   0.01   0.0%    0.01
8iezanot 3     Krakow              10.478        70.51   7.31     9.21  13.01      35.11      0.01   64.91   0.01   0.01    0.01
Biezanow 4     Krakow               6.447        68.51   7.81    10.61  13.11      38.0%      0.0X   62.01   0.01   0.01    0.01
SawlckieJ      Kluczbork           21.745        64.01  15.81    19.61  0.61         NA        NA       NA     NA     NA      NA
sojary I       Bialystok            9.676        81.81   3.01     9.11  6.11         NA        NA       NA     NA     NA      NA
Sojary 2       Bialystok           39.044        82.61   5.51     5.81  6.11         NA        NA       NA     NA     NA      NA
Utasny Dom     Bialystok           12.717        85.01   8.01    4.01  3.01           K.       NA    , NA      NA     NA      MA
Nabitat        Opole               69.958        74.0X   3.01    19.01  4.0X         NA        NA       NA     NA     NA      NA
Semafor        W-wa  Wlochy        47.446        74.11  12.81     9.81  3.3X
SGH            U-wa Ursynow        17.396
Animator       Krzepice             7.893        86.4X   1.51    9.11  3.01        25.01      0.01    37.01  35.01   0.01 .  3.01
Limanowskifgo Ostrow               42.170        75.41   8.31    10.41  5.91        8.31      0.01    76.11   0.01   0.01   15.61
PrzybyszewskiegLodz                10.585        76.51   2.21    11.11  10.2X       0.01      0.01    70.01   0.01   0.01  30.01
UstronnaCPeri) Lodz                26.446        87.51   3.81     2.81   5.9X       3.81      0.01    40.71   0.01          55.51
Wineta         Wolin               15.901        91.01   0.21    3.01  5.81          5.51     0.01    64.11   0.11  22.91    7.41
Rozyckiego     Lodz                 4.607        72.81   2.51    12.01  12.71       0.01      0.01    70.01   0.01   0.01   30.01
SR Kopernik   Kotlowo              90.540        80.01   1.11    12.31  6.61         NA                 NA     NA             NA
Li.uel         Zietona Cors        22.226        81.41   4.61    12.61   1.41        1.41     0.01    98.61   0.01   0.01    0.01
Sikorskiego    GIowno              23.129        89.41   0.61     7.7X  2.31        0.61      0.01   69.41   0.01            0.01
Atmabud        Lodz-Andrespo       22.468        86.51   8.71     4.51  0.41       30.01      o.01    70.01   0.01            0.01
Polnoc S.A.   Lodz-Lisfeist        56.290        94.51   1.61     0.01   3.81       S;.6     20.71    71.01   0.01           2.71
Fabryczna HBO Warszawa            31.907
S.M.           Lipiany              8.180        88.4X   1.2X     7.3X   3.11      20.01      O.OZ   80.0X   0.01   0.0    0.0
Pracownicza S  Jablonna            12.591        90.4X   4.1X     4.8X   0.6a      47.0X      0.0    47.11   0.0   0.01    5.9X
Total project costs (Z billions):           2,564.6
Average percentaConstruction                   72.71
Land                            7.51
Infrastructure                 10.31
Project preparation             6.11



ProJect pptine at 31 DOc 91                                                                 17-Mar-92
-118-
ANNEX J
;oland Hoaing Finance Project                                                                       Page 9 of 9
Project Profiles - Technicat Sumary
Project Nam   City            Per Q2   Total buflt                  Of which, percentage for:    Ratio of
construction    aroa                                                 lIed to
coast (it) /1    2)      Units   Common Service Corme rcle  Garages  built area
area    area     pce
Arks Lindleya Lodi            1,626,000      6.o49     76.4X  13.9X    2.3X       0.01    7.4X        1.01
TKP Lindleya  Lodz            1,000.000      S 779     69.2X 18.2X   12.72        0.02    0.02        1.06
TKP Lifzlasta Lodz            1,000.000    20,448      79.22   7.12   13.6X       0.02    0.01        0.60
Polesie 1     Lodz            1,786,000     11,397     78.62  11.12   10.32       0.01    0.0         1.18
Polesie 2     Lodz            1.7860000      3,654     78.62  11.12   10.3X       0.02    0.0         1.20
Zieleniec     Torun           1,500,000    35.304      70.9X 7.51   19.62         2.12    O.O1        1.51
Pod Boram     Skiernlewice    1,400,000    50,806      83.01   0.01    0.02       4.62   12.41        3.05
Cechowa       Gdynia            980,000    25,635      52.22   4.72   16.52    21.82    4.8X          1.93
Mtynarska     Siedlca           996,000     15,632     64.02   7.82   18.02       9.81    0.01        1.02
Warszawska 11 Siedlce         1,536,254    12,227      71.52   6.42    18.12      4.02    lO.         0.85
folwarczna    Gdynia          1,500,000      2,630     66.5    1.1    24.02       0.02    8.41        2.09
Orloto        Gdynia          2,000,000      1,642     57.22   7.31    4.82    20.31   10.41   .   0.51
Project ABC   Krakow          1,507,620    22,346      72.31  16.22    6.22       5.31    0.01        0.69
Project G     Krakow          1,507,620      4,034      3.02  15.8    11.21       O.OX    0.01        1.23
John Paul It  Czestochowa     1,160,200     18,848     68.31   9.62    2.32       2.21   16.92        O.66
Zolibor:      Warsz:.         3,000,000      6,371     62.82  11.51    9.12    11.91    4.7X          0.72
Stary Fordon 1 Bydgoszcz      1.800,000    83,800      98.8    0.01    0.0        1.22    0.01        0.69
Stary Fordan 2 Bydgoszcz      1,800,000      5,150     70.91   9.22   20.02       0.01    0.01        0.78
Stary Fordon 3 Bydgoszcz      1,800,000    31,770      68.72   9.11   22.22       0.02    0.01        0.79
Piaskf        Bydgoszcz       1,800,000    65.179      70.11   7.7%   13.41       1.62    7.32        1.53
Fordon N      Bydgoszcz       1,800,000    105,050     68.7X  9.2X   19.42        2.72    0.01        1.43
Project 1     Wrocl a         1,650,000     12,280    100.02   0.01    0.02       0.02    O.OX        5.05
Project 2     Uroclaw         1500,000    40,617       90.31   2.01    7.72       0.02    0.02        3.24
Project 3     Wroclaw         1,500,000    52,172      94.41   1.22    4.52       0.01    O.O2        4.29
Redltwo ZielonaGdynfa       . 1.589,580    96,793      61.72  10.52    4.92       8.81   14.11        0.58
Zawada I      Now Sacz        1,522,582     18,823     72.31   0.01   17.62       1.22    7.52        2.02
Zawada 11     Now Sacz        1,643,622     29,607     67.12   6.41    8.52       3.52    5.12        1.55
iSH           Lebork          1,587,430      3,524     59.02   7.72   16.31    17.02    0.02          0.32
Stary Owar    Katowico        1,930.000    42,506      82.12  .5.81    4.62       4.51    2.91        0.81
?ueen Jadwiga Gizycko         1,700,000     16,474      68.01   9.01   20.02      3.OX    0.0          1.44
Srod. Tworzych Lodz           1,100,000      2.701     81.42   2.82   15.81       0.02    0.01        1.04
Swietokrzyska Krakow          1,500,000      1,961     58.22   8.42   16.42    17.11    0.02          T.15
Biezanow 1    Krakow          1,300,000      5,814     63.61  10.92   25.51       0.02    0.01        1.63
Bfezanow 2    Krakow          1,300,000      6,005     71.82  15.52   12.72       0.02    0.02         1.84
Biezarow 3    Krakow          1,300,000      5,679     65.92  20.2X   12.52       1.41    0.02         1.69
Blezauw 4    Krakow           1,300,000      3,399      72.72  14.71   12.61      0.02    O.O1         1.86
Sawickiej     Kluczbork       1,860,000     12,780     55.31  20.01   17.12       4.02    3.61        O.99
Bojary 1      810lystok       1,700,000      4,658      74.7X   8.8    16.52      0.0    0.02        0.61
Bojary 2      Bialystok       1,700,000    19,550      64.22  11.42   12.92       7.21   OOX         0.73
Wlasny Dom    Bialystok       1,900,000      5,669     90.12   0.02    0.02       0.02    9.92         1.76
Habitat       Opole           1,090,7Z0    47,446      77.02  10.01   13.0X       0.01    0.01        1.12
Semfor         -wa UtLachy    2,400,000     15,579     87.72   0.01    0.01       5.82    6.52         1.93
SCH           W-wa Ursynow    2,600,000      9,226       MA      MA     0.01       MA      0.01       0.98
Animator      Krzoepice       1,504,000      4,850     68.01  ll.O    14.01      0.01    7.0         1.59
Llmanowskiego Ostrow          1,600.594    19,412       75.72  10.12   10.52      3.7X    0.0          1.20
PrzybyszewskiegLodz           1,400,000      5,867      56.32  12.62   21.41      0.02    9.81         0.75
'istromoa(Peri) Lodz          1,752,856     11,577      77.02   6.82    9.62      6.81    0.01        0.88
Uineta        Wolin           1,985,000      6,520      71.02   3.01    7.02    20.02    0.02          1.33
Rozyckiego    Lodz            1,400,000      2,396      74.92  13.7X  11.41       0.02    0.01         0.88
SI Kopernik   Kotlowo         2,760,000    28,669      64.0    4.22   10.52    18.02    3.31          3.11
LuMOL         Zielona Gora    1,709,000    10,591       77.62  10.62   12.72      0.02    0.01        0.96
Slkorsklego   Gltomo          1,540,000     12,180      73.41  12.72   13.91      0.02    0.01         1.08
Atmsbud       Lodz-Andrespo   1,682,000     11,791      68.02   0.01   24.0X     ALM       8.01        2.54
Polnoc S.A.   Lodz-Lfsciast   2,000,000     26,890      67.1    6.SX   13.21      4.52    8.72         0.45
Fabryczna HUB Warszwi         2,700,000      7,038     64.01                     20.02   15.02        0.41
S.M.          Lipiany         2,030,000      4,032      75.01   11.02   14.02     0.01    O.OX         2.18
Pracownicza SM Jablonn        1,490,000      7,692      81.01  11.41    4.52      3.02    0.01         0.57
Average 2 cost of construction cZ): 1,658,116
Total built area (2)                1,146 918
Average built area folowing units        71.1X
Cron area            8.11
Service are          11.6
Co merceal space     4.22
Garage.              3.0X
Average ratio of tand to built area:     1.39



- 1 19-
ANNEX K
Page 1 of 8
ANALYSIS OF PROJECT COSTS
Def initionz
1.    Built-Up Area (BUA):  the groos floor area of the unit, including that
of external and partition walls plum a prorated share of the common areas
(external corridors, hallways, staircases, main entrances, common storage
areas, water storage and mechanical areas etc.). The area of garage. and
comuercial spaces La excluded from the total becauso this area should be sold
separately.
Usable Floor Area (UFA). The usable floor area of a dwelling: kitchen,
bathroom, bodroom(o), living room, dining room, entry hall, corridor and
balconies.
Desian Efficiency Factor (DEFIs the ratio between the gross built-up floor
area and the net usable area of the unit (acceptable range 1.30-1.50).
Foreion Exchanae Component (FEC): the percentage of construction costs which
involveo direct or indirect expenditures of foreign exchange (para 8 below).
Direct and Indirect Construction Costs
2.    Discussions with Polish engineers, architects, and developers as well as
the analysis of the cost estimate prepared for a specific building by an
Lndependent engineering firm (Kluczbork -Building A) led to the following
breakdown of construction costs:
Labor            Materials                Equipment
19%                78%                      3%
These cost components are affected by general and indirect costs (koQztv
ocolne).  The value of labor and equipment should be increased by 100% (in
Polish practice these general costs vary from 80 to 120%) and the value of
materials by 17%. After the addition of indirect costs the new breakdown of
construction costo would be:
Labor and Equipment                 Materials
31.5%                          68.5%
3.   The indirect costs that affect labor and equipment include the
administrative and technical costs of the enterprise, depreciation of
equipment, small tools for workers and in some cases transportation and
breakfast for the workers. The indirect costs on materials ares
transportation, storage and losses.



-120-
ANNEX K
Page 2 of 8
Zstimating Cost per m2 of total and usable area
4.    The following sources were conuidered to evaluate the cost per m2:
a)    The averave cost of 45 sample projects presented to the HFPO (see
table 2). It should be observed that the average DEF of the
sample (1.50) is on the high side. The HFPO has already contacted
the interested institutions and developers to request revisions in
designs in order to improve the DEF.
b)    A selection of the above projects considering only these more
efficiently designed (projects with a DEF lower than 1.5) and
eliminating projects with clearly distorted construction prices
(Table 3). The average DEF (1.36) is quite acceptable.
c)    A table of construction cost estimates table published by Bistyp
office in March 1991. The costs were updated to May 1991, the
indirect costs reduced to 100% and the basic price increased by
16% because electricity %nd plumbing costs had not been considered
in the table.
d)    The cost estimate drawn by an independent engineering firm for a
similar building.2
e)    The cost of the same building as presented by the Kluczbork Coop.
f)    Conversations held with private developers in Poland.
Table 2 a based on Table 1 and updats to May 31, 1991 the costs of constructIon, land, lnfastructure
and design, expressed in USS. It was assumed that the costs of tho project presented In Table 1 were
based on the construction prices of the quarter ending before of the date of presentation. When the last
quarter ends In the month Immediately before the month of the project presention the correction factor is
referred to the quarter before the last one. The resulting correction factors are as follows:
Prolect PentdQffaxtr Ending                                   factor
May         91                  March       91                 1,0144
April       91                  DOecember   90                 1,0365
March       91                  December   90                  1,0365
Januay      91                   September   90                1,0518
December    90                  September   90                 1,0518
November    90                  September   90                 10518
October     90                  June        90                 1,0675
July        90                   March      90                 1,0833
June        90                   March      90                 1,0833
May         90                   March      90                 1,0833
March        0                   Docember   89                 10994
The KJuczbor* building was chosen because It /a similar to the Bistyp building. Both are ffve floors
buildings, the difference of their usable area is 11% and the relation between the useful area and the
volume of the building Is 1.25 In Kuczborik and 1.20 In Bistyp.



-121-                            ANNEX K
Page 3 of 8
Findinaa
S.    The construction couts estimates are presented as follows (hereinafter
all costs in US$)t
Bistyp      Kluczbork   Kluczbork   Table 2      Table 3
eng. firm   coop
201.28      211.66      202.94       184.89      193.80
The average estimate of all costs is $198.91 and the average of Bistyp and
Kluczbork costs is $205.29. For the purpose of the Housing Project, the
average construction cost per m2 of total built-up area has been assumed to be
equivalent to US$205 including a 1S percent contractor's profit.
6.    Contractor's Prices: Assuming a construction period3 of 15 months and
financing cost of 13 percent per annum the costs of residential construction
would be:
On May 31. 1991:        x m2 of Gross Built Up Area   x m2 of Net Usable Area
including OH and profit $190.88 x 1.0825 = $206.62    $206.62 x 1.45 = $299.60
On January 1st. 1992 (assuming seven months of price inflation)
OH and profit           $206.62 x 1.0515 - $217.26    $217.26 x 1.35   $ S315.03
The contractor's cost of a two bedroom unit (m260 of usable area)4 would be:
$315 x m260 - $18,900   Contractor's price
7.    Develpoer's Prices:  To achieve a comprehensive estimate of project
costs the percentages of construction, land, infrastructure, design and
supervision have been established considering the tables 2 and 3.
Table 2     Table 3     Adooted %
Construction             72.86        72.44       72.50
Land                      9.72        11.17       11.00
Infrastructure           11.87        12.23       12.00
Design                    S.SS         4.16        4.50
As a result, the cost of land, infrastructure and design is 27.5% of the total
cost. The cost of land varies with by the particular city and cooperative.
A constroction period of 15 months was assumed for 50% of the building costs, 12 months for 25% and 21
monts for 25%. The flnancial cost factor mplqed (1,0825) Is an average factor for the assumption
made.
Polish M3 category. The intemal area distribution was figured out as follows: kitchen m29.20; bathroom
m24,80; bedroom m212,00; bedroom m211, lvign-dining m'18,00; and corridor mr2,20.



-122-                          ANNEX K
Page 4 of 8
In the future, with a land market in place, this cost is expected to be
higher. The design percentage (5.3% of construction and infrastructure costs)
is in line with standard professional practice. If construction costs
represent 72.5 percent of investment costs, and if we add about 3 percent for
project administration and marketing the total investment costs can be
calculated by factoring the construction costs (the Contractor's Prices above)
by 1.32 (i.e. 100/75.5). The results are as followss
x m2 of Gross Built Up Area   x m2 of Net Usable Area
On May 31. 1991          $190.88 x 1.32 - $251.96       $299-60 x 1.32 - 395.47
On January 1. 1991       $206.62 x 1.32 - $272.74       $315.00 x 1.32 - 415.84
The Developer's cost of the same 60 m2 unit would be on January 1, 1991:
$415.84 x m260 - $24,950       Developer Price
Foreian Exchanae Comoonent by construction component
8.    The FEC % of a typical 5 floor building would be 38.50%.  This result
was based on the cost evaluation of the Kluczbork A building (Table 4).
TABLE 4 ESTIMATE OF THE FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT
Components            Z1         %   Foreign   FEC %
Excavation       46184510.00    2       2.00    0.03
Foundations     163737247.00    6      40.00    2.28
Walls           786142882.00   27      30.00    8.22
R. Concrete     442620620.00   15      60.00    9.26
Roof/Ins        206928313.00    7      40.00    2.88
Floors          314460888.00   11      30.00    3.29
Carpentry       183030462.00    6      40.00    2.55
Hardware         95923365.00    3      50.00    1.67
Plaster         162010050.00    6      30.00    1.69
Painting         21116425.00    1      50.00    0.37
Facades          51332910.00    2      40.00    0.72
Elect/Plumb     395758027.00   14      40.00    5.52
Total          2869245699.52  100              38.48



TAULE I
Cly   Nam  d   Tolan.   Aea                Cal       Date  Costs p o  m2 US$1.00I9.500.00oa                                          TOla                       1006000
pjbo    of eunms   uubl.    DEF   pm2 TA            Cends. % ol T.  Land  % oT.  hblaa.   %olT.  Dolg. %dT.  Tot               an       Or    Rener' U1 alEon
Wacdaw   1              119 30-90       1.25  1650000 12190   173.7    50.6  32.0    10.4       90.0    29.3    11.$      33   307.5  12290.0        0    1220       3.72
Wioclew   2             385 47-124      1.27  1680000 1290   173.7    66.0  33.7    I00         92.9    29.6    11.9      3.6   12.2  40017.0        0    40617    12J2
Waclaw   3              491 47-104      1.22  1050000 12190   173.7    60.6  47.0    13.7    110.0    32.0    132         36   343.9  60360.0        0    50230    17.32
Lodz     Palbal         152 47-01       1.46  1738000 5*0    133.0    69.2  560        20.0    1U.9      7.0      .7      3.2  271.6  11332*         0    11332    S3O
Lodz     PoUstel2        60 47-61       1.46  1736000 6190    13.0    69.2  66.0    20.6        11.9     7.0      3.7     3.2  271.6   364.0         0      3654     0.9
Lodz     AtlcaUad        70 52-62       t.38  1626000 129o   171.2   6e.9  47.3    19.0         20.6     6.3    .9.4      3.8  248.4   U974.0      476      0449     1.6
Lodz     TKPUni          6d 52-62       133  .1917000 11U1    201.3    67.6  60.0    10.7  .  36.7    11.        11.6    . 3a  299.0   s77.          0      6779      .73
Lodz     TKPUso         210 38-74       1.63  i993960 119l    209.9    67.9  60.0    16.2       37.0    12.0    12.0      3.0  308.9  20443.0        0    20448      3.32
8h1dke   Mlpya,a        108 58-0        1.40  1620200 4191    191.6    30.6  16.9       6.7     21.0     8.8      9.2     3.9  237.7  14092.4        0   14002.4     3.35
Gdph   Oulwo              9 U4-110      1.30  2000000 190   210.5    74.0  16.4        6.6     3.7    13.1    18.4       6.5  231.0  111o.o        467  115.0        3.25
Odpna   Cechwmt          70 145-140     1.45  1620000 4191    170.6    62.5  60.7    13.6       3682     13.1    156.     6.7  272.6   113i.6       170   13C5.6     0.3
Gdpnl   Cecow2           24 116-101    1.64  1620000          170.6    02.5  50.7    13.6       36J.   13.2    10.0       6.9  273.0   3311.0        0      2311      J0.
Gdpda   Red.21#1        490             1.63  1t895380  2120   167.3    83.3  12.2      0.1     10.9     6.4    10.6      6.2  200.0  7482t.0   1331    3M54    17.73
Slamne  Pod EoY         463 63-92       1.25  1400000 12190   147.4    71.6   9.       4.7      44.7    21.7      4.0     1.9  205.7    42172     6232    43454    0O97
Caz.tech Jan P.1U       141 64-124       1.6  1160200 12180   122.1    83.7  7.45       6.1      9.6     6.0    6.68      4.0  145.0    15607     31t      16233     2.67
BaIpo   B*op             00 34-3         1.6  1700000 1290   17m.9    31.3  6.46       3.0      19.9     0.1   13.35      0.1  218.7   4657.0        0   4667.0      1.02
BaYso    ojasi          132 34-4        1.62  1700000 122D   178.0    *2.0  11.6       6.3    12.29      5.7  1t.1U       6.1  215.9   13134      1415    10649      422
0alao  Wlsnyd               121-157      1.3  1900000 12190   200.0    64.9  19.30     3.2      9.20     3.9    6.66      2.09  236.6    66          0      56       1.33
Teoun    asZeI         456 40-73        1.41  1500000 I1IWO   167.9    66.9  15.3      6.7      59.6    25.2     2.6      1.2  236.0   3409          0    3469       6.17
N.Sacz   Zavadat        92 60-132        2.5  1622632 11W0   100.3    77.1  12.76      6.1      29.3    14.1    6.64      2.7  207*    17177      1416   1693       3.11
N.Sacz   Zawad2a        42 33.5-47      1.45  1843621 11I00  173.0    *2.8   9.J       4.7    12.6       6.2    13.2      6.S  201.0     0        1563     11022     2.0
N.Sao    Zawd.2b        76 60 2.2    1.2    1043621 II10  173.0    32.    9.          4.7   t12A0       6.2    13.2      8.3  206.0    04to         0      0486     l.98
N.S8 z   Zawad.2e       O5 6o-22        1.65  1643621         173.0    82.6  90.       4.7    12.86      6.2    13.2      6.S  201.0   14740         0    14748      3.016 
takow   ABC            217 37-i4        1.64  1611000 12210   190.6    66.0 74.48    20.6       4.6      1.6   10.6t      3.3  20.2  21lU6           0   211f"       936           w
K,akow   a              36 5675         1.02  1900000  12D9    200.0    82.1 26.11    10.7      6.74     2.4   11.32      4.0  243.7    4034         0     4034      0.98
W-wa    Zdlbo            U  65384       1.66  3000000 120   315.6    76.0 26.63    o6          21.67     6.4    30.4      6.2  400.4     6317    206.    681662      2.26
Kcatowe  St.Dwot       446 46-110        1.3  11655000 2190   195.3   60.7  12.66      4.6    60.14    10.Q   19.f6       7.0  214.2   3a37        1240    40S67    11.63
olack   K.Uadw.         170 47-110       1.2  1700000 3190    176.9    30.0  13.71     62      24.21    10.9    4.34      2*   221.2   16817       672    I7360      3.65
e.odz     Sp.aedA        30 60-02         2.7  19o00o0  7U0    200.0    70.7  10.0      4.2    36.8O    14.1   12.92       5.0  200.7    270l         0     2701      0.7o
IC*w   kU_wr             16 36-70       1.76 1600000 1101    2S7.9   7n.4  1J.14       0.1    23.42      6.7    9.47      4.8  19.0    IO16          a      120      0.32
Kackow   SIsanAl        52 34-73       IS  1300000 110    130D.    70.7 13.72         7.1    17.65      9.1   26.23    13.0  193.4    5314          0     6ut4      1.12
Kiakow   WBzan.A2       60 34-3         1.64  130000          136.3    70.6 15.46      6.0    16.46      J.5   26.32    13A   194.1      a06         a     oo05      1.17
Krakow   WeazmnA3       51 34-s         1.77  1300000 119     136.8    70.4  14.21     7.3    17.S5      0.2   25.35    13.   2U4.3      6001        0     601       1.09
Krakow   SIez.nA4       32 50-63        1.62  1300000 119    130.3    09.2  13.42      0A      21.7    11.0   26.79    13.   197A    s330            0     3s3       0.,7
KIakow   WbeaAS         30 34-73        1.6  1300000 1191    138.0    69.2  13.42      0.3     21.7    22.0   26.79    13.0  197.3    330            0     a30       0.77
Krcabor                109 4746         1.32   SSO6OOO 3192    195.6    70.3 32.97    II.&     10.7    24.6      6.0     3.2  M2.4                   6        0      0
Opcb    Hdi            221 100-I90       1.6  1090230 3W9    114.0    73.9  4.90       3.2    20.62     20.1       a     3.0  165.4   47446          0    47446      7.37
Wichy   Semnalr         07  133         1.69  2400000 319     252.6    77.2  31.69     0.6    33.68    20.3      0.6      2.0  327.4    l767      1020    1477       4.04
Lodz    oe.Utron        120 34 42        1.4  1752860 1o0o   184.5    37.2  8.52       4.       6.04     2.0   12.64      6.9  211J      0o09        0    10098      2.24
Jablonna                    60-114      1.6  1490000          166.6    84.3  7.06      3.8      3.38     4.6   13,73      7.4  26t.1   7460.0        0   7460.6      1.36
Lebotk   STAROM          29 60-0        1.69  16587430 1191    167.1    70.2  8.39     4.0    24.46    2t.6    11.4       8.4  221.3   2920.6        0   2s2026.     0.62
Kaplo   kAnImal          42 41-77        1.7  160400  6592    158.3    66.4  2.2        2.4      6.0     9.2    6.33      2.9  133.2  462S.27        0  4626.27      0.33
035w                   197 35-77       1.61  0oo0604         t68.6    76.2 1.95      8.4    23.74    10.6    13.3       6.9  224.8  2I667.9        0  16687.9      4.19     *
Ladz     e.Puab          30 6140        1.82  1400000         147.4    76.7  4.46      2.3      23.6    12.1    19.3      9.9  194.7                 0        0      0.60     *
Cedmas  Posedon          24 2I1-I16     2.68  1620000 4191    170.5    01.4  60.7    18.3       35.8    12.9   20.60      7.4  277.8    569s         0       09      1.42     o
Tol 45  PRjtc(s                                                                                                                        642452    SIM     874160   21Q.32      0
Aveisge                                 1.51                 175.42   72.84 23.39    0.71   .26.62    2.8       J 13.309 4  6.68 240.82
* ; , * ;~~~~~~~4'



mars, ci  10680    Mois              CoCU      Dama             512101   .511910   CoaoaS pot  vad uM; SO I 111000.00 SI                                Told                         oso
E!g      GOl  b       O alEtia    slaM.                  d       Fac1        LA    Caes.  MAL   IaLw  lg-L    b.niie         L %d      om      M         wea      8m    Iho.m   us
8964cIaw    I            SW   woo6        8.25  860000  1219       007.0   1.0610      322.0  102.4     KG*  33.0    10.4        04.0   23.3    12.3        3.,  12260.          0    8220       0.01
vAccIaw    2            365 41-124        1.21  1660000 12190      312.2   1.0516    2204   102.0    650   25.         t0.6      31.0    23.0    12.1       310  40617.0        6    40011       12.50
V*o8aw    3             405 41-104        1.22  10501000 t213      343.0   1.0586      361.1  1402      00.   40.6    S3.       ItS.?    22A      1:33.     a0   50300*         0    s0aw        tS.22
Lade      Paleole        162 41-Ot        1.4   110600  680        278.0   1.0623     204.2  20L46    00.2  60.6    20.6         20.0      1.0     0.4      3.2  18362.         a    81302       0.26
Lads      P06.8.2        Go 41-68         1.46  176600  600        215.0   SA0M3      204.2  203.0    60.   60*        20.0      26*:      1.0     0.4      0.2    UK64.        0      3664      8.06
Loa"     AIOOL864         16 62-62        1.36  16260000 12130     245.4    "S0IG    261.3  100.0    614.10  40.6    10.         20.7      0.3    6Le       3*    01594.0     416      g44"      8.0
Ladi     TICftMd         411 52-02        836  sallo00 11911       29.0   1.056       854.6  252.6    61.6  526        86.       37*      IIO    82.0       0.6   613.          0      5?11      S.02
to"e      TKPUmc        210 26-14         1.63  196000  1*31       30.0   8.0686      324*   220.6    61.0  62.6        0.       30.      I2.     121       as   20440.          0    2044       SAG4
Media6    U Mlyuka      too 60-00         1.40  80202001 4*0       231.1    1.036     240.   160.0    60.0  16.6        6.1      21.7     0.0      0.0      0.0  H4INDU         0   140112.4     0.4
GIada   Ogle,.a            S  4-ItS       0.30  2000000 1 1*0      208.0   1.067      3001.01  224.1    14.0  16.6    5L6        30.3    108      I3.s      6.6  88106         461   18100.      0.41
GdroIa   c.10weat         10 146-140      8.46  12301010 4101      212.    1.036      212.6  170.6    62.   52.0    10.0         21.01    1.1    16.4       Le6   1138.        fie    1300.5     ex1
Odysia   Codaaw&2        24 18I-1465    1.64  1620000              213.0   1.030      200.0   14160     62.5  02.0    11.41      31.1    10.1    ISA        6.    3011.*         0     23381     0.04
Odvala   Retzdle        496               SA3  1606060 12100       200.0   1.0618     211.8  110        02.3  12.       6.041    1*       6.4    51.2       5*   14462.      131    06214       IsiS
0&kumaI   Pad IOm       463 06-02         1.55  1400000 1210       205.1   1.0510     2104L  165.1    15.1  10.2        4.1      46.     21.1      4.1      8.9    42112     am6    4645         W10.4
Clem"a  Jo8 P.11         841 64-829        1.5  116020  12100      145.01   1.0610     163.4  125.4    0W.    1.6       Li       10.0      6.40    1.1      40     11601      3165    1123       2.00
Olaygl   0ajoa0          00 34413         IA   1110000  1289       216.1   1.0616     230.   168.2    05.61   6.0        3       20.01    6.1    14.6       6.1   40116.0       0    461*1        SW0
Olalpata  S4aap          102 34-04        5.62  170000  12100      286.0    1.016     221.1  1008.3    52. 012*         5.2      t2.0     Li      10.0    6t1    1534         H4IS    am64       4.44
"rshi    WaisY d             212-161      1.3  100000  1210       235.5    1.0610    241.1  210.3    34.0  20.3        0.2       0.1      0.041   1.4       3      0006a                0        1.40,
Tome.    as2Bob         456 40-73         1.41  I0000  SOWS0    226.    8.0115        215.0  140.6    40.01  %4160 1             60.5u    20.2     0.0      1.2    3460          0    3460       5.12
11111act   Zawajal       02 110-132        2.5  15226612 JIM2      201*9   1.001      221.0  171.1    11.1  10.5        6.1      31.*    14.1      6.01     2.1    00Il    H41s    II05          4.83
Wilsac    Zaovd2a,       42 386.-41       8.45  1643621  830       2009    1.011116   225.0  104.6    02.0  80.6        4.?      8.        6.2    84.0      Li3    0406       116     l1022      2.4
11.0003   Zo.vsd.2b       76 60-02.G   1*4      l6436s 11800       2061.01   1.0      223.0  164.6    02.   10.6        4.1      1.06      6.2    54.       U.      040          0     0e0"      2.8
".Saaa   z..w.1.2        116 101-122      8.55  l64362             200.0   8.0675     220.0  104.6    62.6  80.61       4.1      10.       4.2    "A.       6.3    14145         6    14146      0.20 
Krakow   ABC            281  31-64        1.54  8tallo0 12120      260.2   1.0615     204.1  200A        00   10.      26.0       4.       1.0    Il.2      0.   28000           0   ali606     62.4
Krakow   a                36 55-75        1.62  800000  12120      243.1   1.0610      250.2  280.4    62.1  21.4    to.?         5.0      2.3    82.6      4*9    403           6     4034       8*03J.
W--,&    Zalab           Bil 63-04        S."6  3000000 12810      400.4    8.0680    421.8  332.1       10  U6.S         1      2t         6       .1,      S      6311    2010.01    168.0,    2.3
Ka8lmwk   SLOane        440 40-180         8.3  8051000 881201     264.2    1.067      3004   900A      60.1  80.       4*       00.1     1.6    21.2        1    3awf        1200    40611      12.31
Olapala   K.aw.U        810 471-88         8.2  870000  312        221.2   SAM00      240.2  106.1    60.0  ILI         0.2      26*0   10.04      4*4    8.00    tail         612    1136       4.26
Ladz      11p.81ad.1     30 50-62          8.1  1300000 180        260.1   1.003      262A4  280*9    16ll  18.0        4.2      36*0    84.8    14.1        6     2710          0     2101      0.10
Ktiakaw   k%eo13          la 36410.       8.15  8500000 ties       010.0   8.0686    200.2  106.8    10.4  1O.0         0.5      84.0      0.1    I".       4*       U162        6      862      5.34
.3          K~~~~~iakaw    Naul~At    62 34-13        8.65  8200000 8121        103.4   8.0186    2006   844.0    10.6  84.4         1.8     141.6     6.8    20.4       83      6084        0      5084      8.86
AKoala,   W*az.A2               60 34-03         1.64  1300V'             80 4.8   1.0556    204.2  840.0    70A   86.3         a       11.4     0.6    21.*       83      606         6      6006      8.23
Krakow   Nlexan.A3       61 34-03         8.11  1360000 1121       804.3   1.0580     JIMA   143.0    104   54.0        7.3      85.6      0.2    2.4    S0.1       6008         a     6005       8.14
Kiakaw    08.zan.A4      32 60-03         1.62  13600000 1128      801*0   8.0686     200.0  840.       00.2  84.8       .       22*0      II    27.0        82    2330          0      309      0.18
Koakaw    ObonaM         36 34-13         8*0   8300000 81281      1117.61   8.0580    200.0  840.0    00.2  14.1       6.0      22.0      II1    21.0       13     36601       0      340       0*51
KIseba                  109 41-OS         1.32  806000  312        210.4    1.0AW     260.5  200.8    10.4  34.0    it1.6        42.8    14*       0.2      2.2                 0         0      0.00
Opal.    11.13.         221 100-lW0        8.1  10001230 3128      865.4   1.0306    815.8  880.0    10.0   5.2         0.2      30*      10.5     to       3.01   41440         0    4144       1.04
Wooby   baShowo          07  486          1.66  2400000 312I       227.4   SAWS6    330.4  32.6         11.2  32.6      0*       35.0    10.2      OA       2.0    13167      1020    841011     6.62
Lodz     mU.1avoo       820 34-08          8.4  575200  8082       2568.    8.0616    226*0  101.0    01.2   0.0         4        0*0     2.0    80.        .3    80000         6    80060       2.20
Jablamas                 00 50-814        8.10  840000             1004.8   1.0366     192.0  861*      6.3   1.3       0.0       6.1      4.6    84.31     14    1400.0         6    1400*       8.44
Lbobak   SFAROM          20 60-40         8.6 08661430 81281       288.2   I.0650     22.2   815.       70.1   0.0    .  4       26.0    11.6    11.6       6.3   2026.6,        0   3266        0*3f
IuWpO&    Ankna          42 48-11          8.1  860400  5128      800.2   1.0144      165.0  860.1    106    2.6    1IA          81.1      0.2     6A       2.0  4525.81         0  4525.81      0*4
Ott,.                    807 35-11        1.08   860054            224.6   1.0065     232.71 84.7    16.1  80.6         IIA      24.1    80*1.4    W.       6.   1000.0          0   16061.0     4.36
Lads     00'Iyab         36 61-00         1*1   8400000            804.  18.0366      201.6  862.6    15.1   4*         2.2      24.4    I2.I    20.0       0.6                  0        0      0.00
It 880-868  Jj~~  862000  4128     IlLS    IO36        n7L   116.6    !L4   fj&         16.      31       I        283      Li       600SW00 
Told                                                                                                                                                              04245      aim     074860   230.84       0)
*461090                  1.01                     2~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40*  N6U.  10.6    12.06  24.61  0.7   12 3082 1.61    84.6  6.61                                     !iI
0



TABLE S
9j    Namol  Told..   A.s                   Cost                     613319  .61391    Cost Pe$ m2 Us$ 3.0053.000.00 al                                    To1                         1toocos
cive!   eluat          I     REP pm2 TA              TOW      facL         TA    co   A-AL   M          %tT.  itank-    `T.                   oT.      .                 s
Lodz     Pdashi         352 47n41        3.4s  17900 61           27m.6   3.053      2942   2016      69.2  60.6    20.6       29.6     1.      A.4      32   3132.           e    11332      1.36
Lodz     Pdot&2          S0 47-1-        1.46  1766000 6sN        271.6   3.033      204.2  203.0    69.2  60.6    20.6        20.6     7.0      9.4      2    3654.0         0     3654      3.0
Lads     Aik&Lkd         14 62-62        3.36  M6D00  12N1        245.4   3.0536     261.3  I60.0    69.9  49.6    39.0        21.7     9.3      9.9      .6   6974.0       475     6449      3.61
Lode     TKPLkad         66 62-62        .36  191700 l9s          209.0   3.0536     314.6  212.6    61.6  62.6    36.         37.4    11.9    12.0      3.I   679.9          9     610       1.92
shdlc    "uwka          386 66-90        3.40  36220  4591        237.7   1.0365     246.4  196.6 69. 6   36.         6.1      2W.1     5.6      9.       a9   142.4         6   392.4        34
Odyabt   Odao             9 64-339       0.30  2900000 390        231.0   3.0616     300.0  224.7    74.9  30.6       6.6       .3      3.      3.6      6.6   1  IIIttO    41?7   15.8       3,47
Gdpoa   Cochowal         10  415-149     3.46  1620000 4591       2fl.6   3.03s      262.6   376.6    416   62.6    36.6       37.9    33.3    16.4      6.6   3336.6       170   1300A       9.37
Skb#eAI   Pod Owe       453 66-92        1.36  1400000 12190      206.7   3.0516    236.4  156.1    73.1  30.2        4.1      46.9    23.7      4.1     3.9   42312       6292    4464      39.48
shalyhso   Wlnaaod           123-167     3.30  3900000 32190      2366    3.0610    241.7  230.3    64.0  20.3        8.2       9.1     3.5      7.4       3     180          0     166       3.40
oltar    as 23..        46   0-73        .43  3100000 33 IW       236.0   3.976      2S3.    66.6    ".9  IS0         S.1      63.5    25.2      3.       3.2    3469              3460       8.172
ft.s c      0Z.d.2.      42 36.6-41      3.45  1943621  3iN9      206.9   3.0676     223.0  134A .     2.6  10.6      4.1      33.6     6.2    34.6      6.3    946        3536    322        2.46
atow   51.0Da          446 46-130       3.39  1865000 3339       294.2   1.0676    303.4  296.4      6.L  33.1       4.5      0.3    39.6    23.2         7    337        3240    43511    32.33
OtUcko   K.Jadw.I       170 41-136       3.20  3700000 33         223.2   1.0994     2432   196.7    69.0   6.L       6.2      20.6   10.84      4.3    L.9    136917       672    17368      421
Uczba.                   e99 47-96       1.32  36610000  393      27.4   3.0365      266.6  203.      70.4  34.0    33.6       42.1    14.6      9.2     3.2                  e        0      eeo.
L3dz     os.Utsha       r20 efl          1.4   376266  0i1w       23.    3.0I15 36 3*   3910    61.2  0. a                                      ii       !!      I            i    J1
Tldo                                                                                                                                                             21333    OM2   222069       6.312
Awes.                                    3.36                     260.0              2662  194.0    122  29.24    30.90       31.17    1.I13    316     4.n
0 
3~1
.; . . 5
Mh
r'    .;                        C~~~~~OD



Table 5: CONSTRUCTION COSTS ANALYSIS (Based on May 1991 Prices)
Cost Comnonents                                ZL x              X         US S x M2          Notes
Labor                                           487,000         15.0         44.00        27.01 of Base Cost
Equipment                                        81,000          2.5          7.50         4.51 of Base Cost
Materials                                     1.236.000         38,3        112.50        68.5S Of Base Cost
BASE COST                                     1,804,000         55.8        164.00       100.0     BASE COST
Contractor's OH & Profit                        451.000         139          41.00        25.01 of Base Costs
Total Construction Costs                      2,255,000         69.7        205.00         1.25 x  Base Cost
Add: Interest Luring Construction                  185,000          6.1          17.00      0,0825 x Cost (131 pa.)
0'
CONTRACTOR'S PRICES                           (Construction Loans)
a) per M2 of Built-Up Area                       2,440,000         75.8        222.00       (Base Cost) + (OH+P) + (IDC)
b) per N2 of Net Usable Area                     3,300,000        102.0         300.00      1.35 x Gross - Net Area Cost
Add:
- Land                                          275,000          8.5         25.00       15.01 of Base Constr. Costs
- Infrastructure                                300,000          9.2         27.00       17.01 of Base Constr. Costs
- Design and Supervision Costs                  110,000          3.4         10.00        5.31 of Const. & Infr. Cost
- Marketing and Administration                  100.000         3L1           9.00       4.01 of Construction + Land +
+ Design & Sprvn. Costs
Subtotal                          785,000         24.2          71.00
DEVELOPER'S PRICES                              (Mortgage Loans)           (May 91)                 (Jan. 92)
a) per M2 of Built Up Area                       3,225,000        100.0        293.00       x 1.0515 - US$ 308.09
b) per M2 of Net Usable Area                     4,350,000        135.0         395.50      x 1.0515 - US$ 415.80
COST OF A 60 ua FLAT              Zl   261,030,000    -  11,000   x    23,730            x 1.0515 - US$ 25,000       |0
00
a.t



-127-                                     ANNEX L
Page 1 of 10
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The program for technical assistance and the logistical organization presented in this report has been designed to
implement the objectives of housing development and housing finance set forth by the Government of Poland In
cooperation with the World Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the U.S. Agency for
Intemational Development. These international donors have been brought together under the auspices of the
Housing Project Office ("HPO) and the Mortgage Fund (FUND") in order to facilitate a unified program. The HPO
will function as the primary coordinator of training, technical, and logistical assistance (see Figure 1).
The HPO will be supervised by the Project Manager who is appointed by the Ministry of Spatial Economy and
Construcion I"MOSEC"). The HPO and the FUND will be runded through multilateral and bilateral grants. Advisors
will be contracted in accordance with the practices of the sponsoring agencies.
As recommended by FNMA, a team approach for technical assistance is desired. This team would combine long,
medium, and short term on-site advisors, along the lines of a "buddv system".
Specifically, technical assistance and training will be targeted to the following three groups:
' The Mortgage Fund ('FUND')
* Eligible Retail Banks
* The ultimate Borrower
As represented in Figure 1, there will be two operating offices for the Project, the HPO and the FUND. These units
will have an informal chain of command to the MOSEC and the international donors. The HPO will be the central
office for training and technical support for the FUND and Retail Banks. The staffing requirements for the HPO will
be primarily short and medium term and the FUND will be medium and long-term. The FUND will be the source
of refinancing for the Retail Banks as well as the control mechanism for loan and bank compliance.
The Retail Bank is the conduit between the FUND HPO, and the ultimate Borrower. By filtering the information
through the Retail Bank, there will be no misunderstanding about the origin of the monies from the borrowers'
perspective. If there is communication which falls out of the chain of commands, it could lead to personnel
problems (staff will feel that management doesn't think they are doing quality work) and transfer of information
problems. The borrower will be told from the onset to contact its retail bank and the bank will provide all relevant
information and training. This flow is necessary since the retail bank takes on the first dollar risk in most cases.
The customer should feel as if the retail bank is the best informed source for information. If there is no confidence
in the retail banks, there will not be many quality projects coming to the banks. Consumer confidences are built
in this manner. In the case of construction/developer training, the Retail Banks, in cooperation with the
municipalities, will be the sponsors of the HPO seminars. (see attached training schedule outlines).
Figure 2 presents the specific staffing requirements of the HPO. The specialist position, held by Polish Nationals
are designed to operate as long term advisors on macro issues involving reform and change in their relevant
business sectors. In the initial stages of the project they will be part of the HPO staff, however over a two year
period the specialists will be absorbed by the relevant ministry or the FUND.
The Advisor staff, housed in the HPO, will consist of long term technical assistance (up to 2 years). Their primary
responsibilities are to keep informed on the macro issues and provide the ultimate borrowers and short term trainers
with up-to-date information and technology. They will also ibe responsible for assisting the FUND on
design/construction matters.
The Trainer staff will consist of short-term (2-6 month) and medium-term (6mo-1 yr) foreign assistance. They will
provide technology transfer to the FUND staff and intense training courses to the Retail Banks, construction
companies, developers and other potential borrowers. Post training course, they will provide ad-hoc assistance
wherever a demand or request is placed. Over a two year period, the technology and information transfer from
the HPO will be complete and at that point any remaining job responsibilities will be shifted to Nationals and the
remaining permanent staff will be placed in the FUND.



-128-                                     ANNEX L
Page 2 of 10
Figure 3 is an organizational chart o the Bud Bank and the breakdown of the departmental division of the FUND
as detailed in the Bud-Bank Bylaws.
The Vice President of the Managing Board of the Bud Bank will also operate In the functional position of the FUND
Director/CEO, and is nominated by the President of the Managing Board of the Bud Bank. The CEO selects the four
managerial positions of Vice Director/Chief Financial Officer (VD/CFO),Chief Operating Officer (COO), Quality
Control Officer (QCO), and the General Counsel with the consent of the Bank Council. This team of four comprise
the FUND Credit Committee.
As recommended by FNMA and USAID, there will be five functional department in the FUND which report to each
of the Credit Committee Management. FNMA and USAID recommend long term advisors be placed in the Credit
Management Department, Control Management Department, and the Housing Finance Management Department.
These advisors will be policy and guidelines specialists who will develop the organizational structure and
departmental requirements for their respective area. Medium-term assistance is recommended for the MIS
Management Department and the Construction Finance Management Department. The form of short term
assistance recommended would be to. support the Housing Finance Management Department, the Credit
Management Department and the Construction Finance Management Department.
To supplement the aforementioned recommendations, additional short and medium-term technical assistance to
all existing departments is recommended as follows:
Medium-Term Assistance to the MIS Support Staff, Construction Lending Staff, Mortgage Lending Staff
and the Funding Staff;
Short-Term Assistance to the Monitoring/Evaluation staff, Loan Administration staff,OFUND" Compliance
staff and the Reporting staff.
Figure 4 represents a typical organization structure participating Retail Banks should have. This structure is
required for monitoring and review of the financing request from the ultimate Borrower and reporting to the FUND.
In summary, the technical assistance and organizational structure presented will serve as the transitional
environment required to make the housing finance mechanism in Poland self-sufficient and operative.



MACRO SCHEMATIC OF THE PROJECT - Figure 1
USAID PROJECT                      E8RD                        WORLD BANK PROJECT
MOSEC
:                                                                          :
*                                                                          :
*                                                                          *
HOUSING PRO3JCT OFFICF                                                     TH  BUD BANK AND TME FUND
(see Figure 2)
(see Figure 3)
Retail Banks
(see Figure 4)
IGMINA  |   Dvlpr   construct-l                   o                Mortgage |     |Singlo
(Munici-                   lon                  Operatives       Applicants         Family
pality)                  Companies                                                  Investors
00
0
e1



HOUSING PROJECT OFFICE - Figure 2
|Fnance Speclalist|  |Banking  apcait        |st   rjct Mr||Legal Specialt  ||rcrmnt Spec.|
Housing      Planning/Constr.     Architectural  &                Technical Assistance Advisor and Counterpart         Office
Advisor         Advisor             Design Advisort*                                                                  Manager
Construction         Municipal           Architect/Design                                                                               o
Trainers             AdvLsors             Trainers               Senior    Construction  Mortgage          HI8          DIM
(Trainers)                                 Credit    Credit         Credit         Trainer      Expert
Trainer    Trainer      Trainer                       Trainer
This group will provide training to construction companies,              This group will provide training and support to the retail
home builders, municlpalities, co-operatives and developers.                 banks and the FUND.
0n
4u-t
0~
0D|



-131-                                    ANNEX L
Page 5 of 10
HOUSING PROJECT OFFICE
Summary of Responsibilities:
*     Fund Raising to support technical assistance program/personnel;
*     Design, Management, Implementation of Technical Assistance
*     Headhunting for technical assistance people
Marketng of Project
*     FUND MIS Development
*     Reporting and Monitoring Training
DIM training and assistance
*     Construction and Land Use Planning
v     Technical Assistance for Housing Sector -
(Construction Co; Home Builders; Developers; Municipalities)
Housing Project Office:
NOTE: Section 1.3.3 of the Policy and Operations Manual states the following:
(1)   Assist the Mortgage Fund in its Review and Analysis of Construction Projects;
(2)   Assist the FUND and MOSEC in complying with reporting and monitoring requirements;
(3)   Manage and implement technical assistance and training for banks, municipalities and developers;
(4)   Source of Advisory Assistance to GOP, WB and Finance Institutions on Policy and operational issues
relating to reform in Housing Sector.
Responsibdities of the staff and advisors will be transferred to nationals over a two year period.
Proposed Job Descriptions:
Project Manager:    (long term; 2 years)
*     Liaison to the Govemment of Poland and Intemational Donors
*     Manages, coordinates, and staffs the functional divisions
i     Supervises at all levels coordinating implementation of the project.
Finance Specialist:   (long term; 2 years)
Advise MOSEC on reforms in finance systems
*     Assess need if subsidy programshvoucher schemes
*     Examine Macro implications of legislative/regulatory changes
*     Undertake special studies for MOSEC and government
Banking Specialist:  (long term; 2 years)
*     Advises on banking issues which affect HFP
0     Monitors reforms in banking sector
*     Undertakes special studies
Legal Specialist:  (long term; 2 years)
Provides Advice to HPO
*     Drafts contracts and legal documents
Advises MOSEC on sector reform
*     Trains counterpart
Procurement Specialist: (long term; 2 years)
*     Supervises compliance with competitive bidding requirement
*     Reviews procurement contracts and procedures
Translator/
Admin Asst:        Updates documents. Prepares public relations materials. Provides translation services. Helps
to coordinate translation services for the technical assistance programs. Assists the
secretary in office support tasks when necsssary.



-132-                                   ANNEX L
Page 6 of 10
Asst. Project Mgr:    Manages the Team; Team Leader. Liaisons to International Donors and Project Manager.
Initiates fund raising for technical assistance. (Long Term Assistance; 2 years).
Housing Advisor:    Reform Rental Housing Policies. Develop management guidelines for Co-Ops etc. General
Guidelines for municipalities. Assistance in Preparingfimplementing plans of public sector
housing. Production Systems Reforms. (Long Term Assistance; 2 years).
Planning/Constr
Advisor:           Land use planning. Acquisition Management. Changes in Building Codes/Construction
Regulations. (Long Term; 2 years).
Design/Architect
Advisor:           Specialist in Architectural Designs. (Long Term; 2 years).
Tech Assist Advisor/
Counterpart:       Logistics people. Organize all training programs. Coordinates technical assistance. Trains
the counterpart for job. (Medium Term; 1 year)
Officer Manager;   Responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of the facilities (Medium Term; 1 year).
Architect Trainer:    Advises developers and architects on technical design. Trains borrowers on how to borrow
Construction       from the fund; how to participate in the bidding process; how to prepare a business plan
to the lending institution; how to obtain presales and cash flow preparations; and how to
manage a project. Rental, maintenance and divestiture policies for the municipal housing
stock. Cost recovery and pricing of housing related municipal services. Economic, financial
and technical analyses of proposed infrastructure and housing projects. (Long Term; 2
years).
Municipal Advisors:  Provide technical assistance and training to local govemments, construction companies,
developers, and other potential borrowers with regard to municipal financial management
including valuation of land and fixed assets and other housing-related issues. (Medium
Term; up to 1 year).
Senior Credit
Trainer:           Analyze Loan Requests. Provides technical Assistance to the FUND coordinating lgistics
and management policies. FUND criterion trainer for relevant documentation. Reporting
to the FUND training. Audit Requirements training. Legal Requirements training etc.
(Medium Term; up to 1 year).
Construction
Credit Trainer:    Technical Assistance to the retail banks - How to analyze construction companies; staffing;
monitoring the loan; credit file maintenance; etc. Assist the FUND in Loan Review.
(Medium Term; up to 1 year).
Mortgage Credit
Trainer:           With the DIM expert, trains retail banks on how to use the Dual Index Mortgage program
(DIM Expert)       and what the information generated by the program means. Identifying eligible borrowers.
Assist the FUND in implementation of the project. Teach the local banks on mortgage
servicing and escrow accounts, defaults. (Medium Term; up to 1 year).
MIS Trainer:       Train banks on how to use the newly developed MIS system. (Medium Term; up to 1 year).



TU BUD BAUM AID THE MORTGAGE FUND STRUCTURE - Figure 3
Shareholders 
|External |ankCudcitoUN prvso|
t                       ~~~~~~~~MANAGING BOARD                                   Preeident                    
#          ~~~Member         I         iePresident                     Member            I       Member                    Nie    
----THE FUtlD-----                        -,                          ------- THIS FUND ------       6    ----- TEFN -----
FUND birector/cs 
-|chief Op. offiCer |  |  Quality CnrlOfcr                                   |VD/Chief Fin. Officer |         | Gneral Counsel]-  
HIS Mgmt Dept/      Conetructlon Fin              Credlt Ngmt Dept/              Control Mgmt Dept              HouaLng Fin.
Team Leader        Ngmt Dept/Team Lead.             Team Leae                      Team Leader                  Tsa  Deader
.           .                  ~~~~~~~~....................
.     .    e~~ngin" erCnut...Lan
I~~~~~~FI=
Prog  _ rStaff I                          Const.AnlyaLs |HotaeAnalys.|    Compliance
|                 |~~~~~Lending Staff  |  Lndg Staff             Staff
HonitoriLng/                                        ..................             |Retail Bank 
Evaluation Stf  |F.                                                                        UND *
W      S                       I   ~~~~~~~~~~Loan Participation/Purchasing/         Compliance        
I and Fundlng Staff                          S  taff     |I              FacllitLes      I
!                                                |    ~~~~~      ~    ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~Staff|   1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~S                                                                          t      Sll                                       | D|
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-134-                                      ANNEX L
Page 8 of 10
The FUND and the BUD Bank
The Mortgage OFUNDO:
(1)   Will act as a department of the Bud Bank etblished by the Board of Directors of Bud Bank;
(2)   Provide applied technical assistance to Lenders on lending practices and implementation of private
construction/mortgage systems;
(3)    Establish quality credit standards aid credit oversight policies and operational practices and controls.
The BUD Bank Shall:
(1)   Organize training in qualified commercial banks;
(2)   Participate in the creaton of systems enabling the Implementation of financing schemes;
(3)   Cooperate in the implementation of financing schemes;
(4)   Use the information acquired in the course of permanent monitoring to enhance the effectiveness of
financing programs
Proposed Job Descriptions:
Chief Operating
Officer:           The facilities administrator in charge of Back office operations and systems development
Quality Control
Officer:           In charge of Lender administration, Lender approval, and compliance with banking
regulations.
Vice President/Chief
Fin. Officer:      In charge of internal audits, reconciliations, reporting functions, disbursements,
applications, and reporting requirements.
General Counsel:    In charge of legal review, regulatory review, reporting activities, and cooperation with
legislators and government persons on housing finance related issues.
Team Leader, MIS:   Manages department. Creates departmental guidelines and policies for the FUND. (Medium
Term; up to 1 year).
MIS Support/
Programmer:        Evaluate existing reporting and control systems. Review contemporary systems. Design
reporing and control system. Design modeling, scheduling, forecasting programs for
constuodon and default management. Design loan origination system. Design seicing
system. Choose delivery system. Develop Loan Accounting System and Funds
Management systems for the rtil banks and the FUND. Oversees implementation of the
MIS system. (Long Tern; 2 years).
Monitoring/
Evaluation
Officer:           Report writing for the FUND and Database maintenance for the project. (Medium Term; up
to 1 year).
Construction
Fin Mgmt Dept      Develop appropriate maricet analysis format; models for development/finance of residential
Team Leader:       construction and completion of prbjects. Establish Procedures for effective construction
monitoring, control and funds disbursal. Creation of project review, approval evaluation
method and materials. Develop standards for efficient cost-effective construction.
(Medium Term; up to 1 year).
Construction
Eng. Consult:      Works with the Compliance Department providing reports ceaceming compliance and
compltion of project for the eligible loans. Monitors ongoing projects and provides reports.
(Long Term; 2 years).



-135-                                 ANNEX L
Page 9 of 10
Credit Mgmt        Loan origination. Establish risk management philosophy. Develop credit policy,
Department         underwriting guidelines; appraisal; valuation, etc. Establish standard loan
Team Loadw:        originatdon/setement processes. Establish quality control and audit procedures. Does
project feasibility analysis. First level review team. Uaison with local bank if there are
questions conceming funding requests. Similar role of Marketing and Relationship
management position. Filters out projects which are not complete or qualified. (Long Term;
2 years).
Construction
Analysis Staff:    Analysis of construction funding requests and make recommendation based on information
provided. Provides written defense for acceptance or rejection of project funding request.
(Medium Term; up to 1 year).
Mortgage Analysis
Staff:             Analysis of mortgage funding requests and make recommendation based on information
provided. Provides written defense for acceptance or rejection for funding. (Medium Term;
up to 1 year).
Loan Purchase
Participation
Staff:             Primary responsibility is to provide funding and receive payments for loans that have
qualified for the funds. Must maintain a database of information in coordination with the
MIS department. Keeps track of interest dues and payables. Sends out billing notices for
interest payments and provides timely reports to the retail banks on status of outstanding
loans. Also, provides reports concerning portfolio exposure and project types etc. (Medium
Term; up to 1 Vear).
Loan Admin
Staff              Loan Servicing; Primary responsibility is to backup the loan purchasing department with
record keeping and monitoring of loans, maturities, interest due. They maintain the hard
copies of all loan documentation. They make sure loan agreements are placed and tracked
in the vault - dated and stamped. They keep all the files in order for the extemal and
intemal auditors. (Medium Term; up to 1 yearl.
Control Mgmt       Control, management and accounting of construction and end loans. Development of
Departm            systematc standardized loan administration policies, process procedures. Develop default
Team Leader.       management (delinquency reporting and foreclosure). Development of mortgage accounting
and reconciliation methods and proof system. (Long Term; 2 years).
Loan Fund
Compliance Staff:    Default Management. Verifies all information and compliance requirements. For example,
reviews bidding requirements and Income verification needs. (Medium Term; up to 1 year).
Retail Bank
Compliance Staff:    Pre-ualifses banks. Monitors the legal operating status of the participating retail banks.
Uaison with retail banks conceming compliance issues. (Medium Term; up to 1 year).
FUND Reporting
Staff:             Receives and analyzes the reports submitted by the retail banks as required by the FUND.
(Medium Term; up to 1 year).
Housing Finance
Management Dept   Identify/develop incentives for Polish lenders to enter housing market. Analysis of
Team Leader:       atemative asse management strategies. Analvze Systematic changes impacting housing
such as regulatory, legal, tax, and instiutional designs.
Facilities Staff:  Responsible for facilities maintenance and office management.



-136-                                      ANNEX L
Page 10 of 10
SHORT TERM ADVISOR NEEDS (recommended by B. Marcus FNMA)
(for up to 6 months)
to the Construction Finance Management department:
*     Real Estat ConstructionNaluation
*     Environmental & Urban Planning
*     Market Analysis
*     Archiecture. Engineer & Land Development
to the Credit Management department:
*     Borrower application/education materials
*     Loan origination process
*     Underwriting manual development
*     Appraisal valuation & comparability
*     Mortgage Tite Insurance
*     ComplianceiGuality control
*     Consumer Lending/Marketing
to the Housing Finance Managemont department:
*     Banking Regulation/Gov't Finance
*     Securites Underwriting
*     Investment Banking
*     Secondary Market Development



-137-
ANNEX M
Page 1 of 14
REPORTNG AND MONITORING SYSTEM
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
Oerview
The Housing Finance Project Office (HFPO) has designed a reporting and
monitoring system to be used in analyzing and evaluating the implementation of
the Housing Finance Project (HFP). The system is based on quantifiable
information that can be gleaned easily from construction and mortgage loan
applications. Local banks prepare quarterly reports that are subinitted to the
Mortgage Fund, and in turn the Mortgage Fund prepares quarterly - and
eventually, annual - consolidated reports. The reporting formats can be readily
computerized, once a software program is developed. A corresponding
monitoring and reporting system will be designed for the Mortgage Fund itself
following the elaboration of its procedures and responsibilities.
The reporting system generates information on aUl loan applications whether or
not approved, and on all approved loans. This system enables some analysis of
general or total demand and a more detailed assessment of the HFP's actual
portfolio. In addition, the system can be used to analyze trends in the housing
sector (e.g., changes in construction costs, sources of investment and household
incomes, etc.).
This reporting system will need to be complemented by in-country examination
of selected multi-family projects to monitor aspects of the HFP which are less
suitable for quantifiable analysis, such as environmental impact or availability
of community services. Information on these factors is contained in the
applications for multi-family construction loans, and complete copies of these
applications for all approved projects will be on file at the Mortgage Fund. Joint
World Bank and Government of Poland monitoring and evaluation teams will be
able to review these documents and make on-site inspections.
Steps in the Reporting System
1.   Upon receipt by a local bank, all applications for multi-family
construction, single-family construction and mortgage loans are
entered on an applications roster. Separate rosters are maintained
for each type of loan, and basic information about the application
is noted.



-138-
ANNEX M
Page z of 14
2.   For multi-family and single-family construction applications, the
bank completes Project Summary forms. These forms are used to
assist the bank in its review of the application, and most of the
information required by the reporting system can be taken from the
Project Summary forms. A Project Summary form is not required
for mortgage loan applications.
3.   For all approved loans, the bank completes additional forms that
provide more detailed information on such factors as construction
costs, basic design data, land tenure, etc. A separate series of forms
is maintained for multi-family projects, single-familyprojects and
mortgage loans.
4.   On a quarterly basis, copies of the forms referenced in Steps 1-3 are
submitted to the Mortgage Fund and the HFPO. The bank starts a
new quarter using blank forms to minimize the possibility of double-
counting by the Mortgage Fund when it prepares consolidated
statements. The banks will be instructed to submit these forms
within 10 days from the end of the quarter.
5.   In addition to the above-referenced forms, on a quarterly basis the
bank submits to the Mortgage Fund a 'Consolidated Quarterly
Report on Loans in Disbursement". This form requests basic
information on the bank's lending activity for the quarter for all
types of loans. Again, this form will be due within 10 days from the
end of the quarter.
6.   Following the receipt of quarterly reports from the banks, the
Mortgage Fund prepares a series of consolidated statements for
approved multi-family projects, single-family projects and mortgage
loans. In addition, the Mortgage Fund prepares a quarterly "Activity
Report on Local Bank Disbursements". These reports should be
submitted to the World Bank and GOP within 30 days from the end
of the quarter.
Tist of Forms
The following is a list of all the forms referenced above. Copies of these forms
are attached in the order by which they are listed. Examples of these forms will
be annexed to the Operations Manual, and the Mortgage Fund will provide
copies of all forms to banks that are pre-qualified to participate in the HFP.
2



-139-
ANNEX M
Page 3 of 14
Local bank reports
Multi-family construction projects:
1. ROSTER OF ALL LOCAL APPLICATIONS FOR MULTI-
FAMILY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
2. SUMMARY - MULTI-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
3. CONSTRUCTION DATA ON APPROVED MULTI-FAMILY
PROJECTS
4. CONSTRUCTION COST INFORMATION ON APPROVED
MULTI-FAMILY PROJECTS
S. CREDIT INFORMATION ON APPROVED MULTI-FAMILY
PROJECTS
Single family construction projects:
6. ROSTER OF ALL LOAN APPLICATIONS FOR SINGLE-
FAMILY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
7. SUMMARY - SINGLE-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
8. CONSTRUCTION AND COST DATA ON APPROVED SINGLE-
FAMILY PROJECTS
9. CREDIT INFORMATION ON APPROVED SINGLE-FAMILY
PROJECTS
Mortgage loans:
10. ROSTER OF ALL APPLICATIONS FOR MORTGAGE CREDIT
11. INFORMATION ON APPROVED MORTGAGE LOANS
Other report:
12. CONSOLIDATED QUARTERLY REPORT ON LOANS IN
DISBURSEMENT
MErtgaae Fund repor=t
13. MORTGAGE FUND: ACTIVITY REPORT ON LOCAL BANK
DISBURSEMENTS
14. MORTGAGE FUND: ACTIVITY REPORT ON ALL LOCAL
APPLICATIONS RECEIVED BY LOCAL BANKS
15. MORTGAGE FUND: ACTIVITY REPORT ONALL APPROVED
MULTI-FAMILY PROJECTS
16. MORTGAGE FUND: ACTIVITY REPORT ONALLA.PPROVED
SINGLE-FAMILY PROJECTS
17. MORTGAGE FUND: ACTIVITY REPORT ONALLAPPROVED
MORTGAGE LOANS
3



-140-
ANNEX M
Page 4 of 14
SUMMARY - SINGLE-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Appliceat:              _
Address:
Town:
Type of project (check ooe):
Now constuetion (NC)
Project completion (PC)
Substantial renovation (RiN)
PROJECT DATA
Total built area > . )                 . m2
3 3 Not living area     _m2                                              * of total
:1 :o Notcirelatio area                o2                                    of total
> > Net ervice area                    .2                                * of total
a Net embleo area                     .2                                * of total
> , Net garage area                 _o2                          S_ or tota
Total load aea:
Ratio of load area to total build area:
Number of bo-sehold members:
FINANCIAL DATA
Total monthly housebold Income:
Coastreatioa costs:
Cost of concttetioo per d2:
Cost of laud per m2:
Total project costs (Zlotys):
Construction                                                                or_   ototal
Land                                                                   _* of total
lfrastructure                                                           * oftotal
Documentatioo                              %_ of total
TOTAL                                                           100       S
Total In U.S. Dollar:    s
Proposed sources of finoacing Zlotys):
Equity from borrower                                             _        * of total
Construction loa                                                           * of total
Other sourees                                                            % of total
TOTAL                                                           100       6
Total in U.S. Dollars:   S
Bank lxf orrmalion
Name of bank             __________________________
Address                  _
Vovoidship
Telephone number
Contact person
Status of appticatiox
Date received:
Approved                          Date:
Disapproved       _             Reason:



-141-
ANNE M
Page 5 of 14
SUMMARY - MUALTI-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Tows:                                                      Type of project (ceick one):
Project ame:                                               New construcuon (NC)
Appliae n                                                   Prjet compltion (PC)
Substantial renovation (REN)
CONSTRUCTION DATA                                          Laud improvement (LI)
Total built area, > >                  . >    2    <444 'S021."
>t, ~, Units                           M2                  __        _      o r oftotal
>. Cinelotioo mrea                    d2 444 1            _______           of total
>>er_ $_i_e Om                   __  _      444            _                ofttotl
3. C.mer C aasrl mm"2 4all                       3$        _____       _ S of totl
> >n agees               _l  444                           _             91 of toul
U"ble ae  for all unlts   _  ___2  4 4-  V.
Totl nsubr of utn        __ _       _      44                              Nurmber in shaded
Average emlt sim                       .2 <  0                           Area refer to entries oan the
Deg. Effeiency  atio    _______            4     ;4(DHP)                 foram  Cost Analysis for
Housiaz i riecu'
Total bad area 
Ratio of laad or" to total built aem_    -
Number of becficairiec (Ceture reideeut):
CONSTRUCTION COSTS (Zlotys)
Cocauctlom  o emu for ol:                       Average cost per unit of:
Resdetia uni* _i_                              , Residential units
Cormercial area            __            3        Commercial areas         -_ ____
argbes                   _____                 " Garage
Total                    _
Per d2 couructlon cos ttor niuts :_ _
Date of co.struclioa coat estimate:                  U36 36
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (Zloqs)
Constrectio                                                                  of tout
Laud                                                                      % of total
Infrastructure          __of total
Docuentatioon                      __                                     % of toMtl
TOTAL                    _       _         _                   -100       9
Total Is U.S. Dollars:   S
PROPOSED SOURCES OF FINANCING (Zlotp)
lIvestor's equity                                              -             of total
Depoelut/prepaymeuts     _                                                   of total
Construetioner dits                                                       * of total
laeatmeat from "ale      _                                                   of total
Other souress
TOTAL                              o_ 100 
Tota is U.S. Dollars:    S
lBanlsh  Ieriagiot
Name of bank             _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _
Addr_
Vovoidahip               _
Telephone number
Conta peson
Date eeived: 
Approved                          Date:
Diapproved        _             Reason:_____



COISUCTION COSm INFORUAm  ON APPROV    NULII-PAU1LY PREC                                                                     tr eig:            _
tow eidublt:     -__  _ _ __ _ _ _  _. _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _
Borrower          Town         Project Rome I        otal                 Breakdoum ol eal                 Coa. coA       Date    Trcadovu ol costruciojm coads
I                                                 Pokel  tetnex p r m2    ol coad 
PTOIC                   hi o       ~Conalac-   lawd   InfreAuoc- Documen-  tor bossing   etimte    tabor   Mbteriab    Eqp.   hket
lion                     lure    lation       omit                                                  cd
4                                                                                                                                   --
3
4
9
13
1.
16_
17
13
II
21
24
21
22-
i0.O



ROSER OF ALL LOAN ALATIONS FOR SNCLE-FAIILY CONSTRUCTION PROMJ
las:                   __ __ __ __ __                                                                                     -w.    .dh                     ___ _ _ _
Addrew                       .         _
ovo"iduip:
Applirct               lonm            Date        Two o l          Total           Total             tdt             ousehl             aolic _
opplcatioa     project        prone         coltruction         credil       income elaid pie   y MoM taken. and  die tie
lecied         /1/            aits            ceods            mcudt          ha ualoast  ldate ai r1 olor       _di mumrd ml
I
3
4
5
1.
9
e                                                                                                                                                                                             I
21
13
2,
515
16                                                                                                                                                         . n
I!
3'
Xl /1/  lor new conatnctlon. vC  for proecl compleion or l1    or ubstoutial repaina~~~--  



CONSOUDATED QUARELY REPORT ON LOANS IN DISBURSEMIENT
(ztotp)
Dau:                                                                                 Quarter eudng:.
Addrew
Total           Total       Disbursements      Amount       Reimbursements       Total           Total           Total           total
anmonul of       amount          as  of         reimbursed     from Fund as       accrued      disboremento    repaymems         outstaidlug
approved       disbursed        approved         from              x of          inlerest          and                            balce
credits        to date          credits        Morgage           total           to date         accrued                       (prlacipl &
/1/                                       _     uhnd       disburements                        laterat                         interest)
Sulil-Famil,
Costruietlon
Projects /2/111                                                                                                                     -  
Projeets                                                             I              ,
lMortgage Loans                                     I               I                        I                I                    _ I                I
bTOTS               _       .,      I               I                I              I                 I _I                            II
/I/ AD infonmntion should be provided on a cumulative bab as of the end of the quarter.
/2/ Include Information on land Improvement projects.
co
K |
0 .



NORTCACE FUND: ACiT  REPORT ON A    LOLAN APPUCAMONS
(hlota)
Qurter eodiot_
Total         Total           Aene              Total      ContrcUo           Tot*l          verage       Total         Atne           Tola
number      project cost       project       constructioa     cotds as a       credit        credit       awber         amber of      member d
of loom       for an            cost             cos        percentage of    reqestd        request         *1          uois er    beneficiaries
applitions   applications                         for all     tota proet        for al                       units         project
*sulb tions       costs       onlintion
Nulti-Pamil
Construction
ProjectsIIII                                                                                                                                
Total         Total           Avege             Total      Construction       total        Average       Averae         Average
number      project cost       projetp       condruction     Cots a a         credit         credit      bousehold    redit reqeed
o loan        for all           cod             cost         percentage      repeds         requed        income      as a multiple
applicon.s  applications                          for all       of. toal        for a*                                    of aveg e
*appications    prolet costs   atlictions                                  heom                        I
Slagle-PamlIp
Condstuion
Projects                                       I                                 I            I                I            I             I
Tol           Total           Aver              Tobl         pvege            verage       Averg         Averge
number       iles price         "ien            credt          crdit       credit request   houeold   tredi reques
l loan        for ill           pfice          requet         request    as a pereatge       ncome    an a muliple
appiatins        anits                            for ao                      of average                   of verwe
Ionplations                   saIn  rice                    iseome
mortgagels                     I               I                I                             I                I            I
'a"1



INORMAION ON APPROVED MORCACE LOANS
Quter e     rdbg:
Borrowet            towa           llor. Os propel    Ia toormlon  tes:                       _  _1Ibhld              Total      Numkr    TOtl    Aout                
Tm      Net    bad   hie    Amount          Amount                I     ncoew       ereditau a     of       Iale         of      to
of unit  iiiint   uus 1in  n       of       opproved    from   from    werWiled by   multiple ol   bUd.       priee     dog-       in
/    nml areai2)  /2/  amDiwed  renues                 bank  fimd       book       bd.  e.    embers                  amt    rke
3
4
5
7                                                             9
9
10
13
'4
lS
17
lel
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
/1/ 'H' for hOUse and F lfor olat
/2/  I' for ee simple ond VPCL fr prtual ground lease
0



MORTCACE FUND: ACTIVI   REPORT ON WCAL BANK DISBURSEfM
(MIS)
tsverad la             __________
ToWl            Tolal         osbumemal         Amoual      Relurmatls             TOW              Tolai           Toaal            Tol
auuIL of         _solm           ua   of         reluhm i        from had as        aued          dlsbrumnts    repsyels            ouldad
credits        disne            appoed            from                f of         blerest           aid                            Isa
aprwd by          to dote          mills           Mortew            to              to date          ine. C
la haus          bt haus                            hPid         ds*b     uo                          mi
M-liameily
Projcts                              I                I               I         *      I                I                I               I                I
CousIutios
Proes                                I                I               I                I                I                I 
Vortgae Lmos oI                                       I               I                I                I                I               I                I
TOTALS                               I                I               I                I                I                I               I                I
10
IX.J



MORrACE FUND. ACTIVITY REPORT ON AL APPROVED MULT-FAMILY PROET
Quater eadrW
BAIC  UiN UTo1  or COMSTRUCIlI                                                                          _
I Totl           Of lotaL number of prilects by lt.                     Tobl          rla
member          New          Project      Removaioe        la"d         nmbe         avm*er d
of approved  Icontructioo    completion                  impoement    ol ben-            umits
proiects   IkI
INFORNiON ON PROJECT DESIIN
unit size       KDr           built       built area       Unats        c. area        Service     Commercial       Caraes         bnd          bad are       ntio of
|D2)                      area (Pc)         per                         (Pr)        are (PC)        areas                         area           per        lad to
. orojt                                                                                             proiect      buil          o
IIORUAIION ON CONSTRUCTNON COSM
Total        Avege                        Average brakdown of costs                  Average            Avenge breakdown o1 constructliom costs
; P;    project'    ltotal cods                by perc     m                        eoarction                     by   t
costs          pe         Construc-        Land        Infrestrucw    Doimen-        cost per       labor         Naterial        Eqpl         Indiret
;  i                   lreiect      lion                         ture          bin
;  11 I                       I             !I .1            1                I                          I             I
INROINATION ON APPROVED CONSRUCTION CREDIm
Inlormation on all approved condructlion loLs          Total                       Information om oa soures of rliaucg.
Total amount  Total amount   2 of credits    X of credis    projed                              by *verate pereentaie
o *ai       od credit     frm local        from         fibaing       Invetrs        Deposits       Credits      Investment       Olher
loan        approved      banis ov n    9r4tag         (cods)         equity                                   from sales      sowamt
reQuesLs                    resources        Fund                                                                                                                 e
I             I              I             I              I,            I             I              I             I              I             I                      | 
o 



I: 1                               I SINGLE-                 3
(zlotys)
quarter ending:
BASIC INFORNATION ON SINGLE-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION
Total             O total, number of  o cts by typeTotal
number            New             Project        Substantial     number of
of approved     construction      completion       renovation      bousebold
projects                                                          m       [mbem
II                           I                I
INFORMATION ON SINCLE-FAMLY PROJECT DESICN
Total built       Aerage            Total          Average
area for        built area      net usble       met unuable
all projects     per project        area             area
I                I                I         .     I                I 
INFORMATION ON SINCLE-FAMILY CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Total          Average                          Average breakdown of costs                        Average          Average
costs or           cost                               b prcentares                                coastruetlbo     cod per 2
all             per           Construc-          Land          lofrastruc-      Documen-         coat per           for
proecits         project           lion                             tore            tation            m2              had
I        _l         ~       ~ I               I                                I               I                I                I
IMROUATION ON APPROVED SINCLE-FrAILT CONSTRUCTION CREDItS
Inlormation on al aproved construction loans                Total            Totl b       laveet             Average         Average       A eelou
Total_amount    Total amount      Zofa ts         X ofcredlt         proect          Invested         n*a  X             a            household        ba as
anll          of credit       from local        from           financing           by            of tol            ount              oe          mnk d
loan          approved        banksown          Mortgage         (costs)        borrowen           eosbs                                           sveisle
requests                         rsources          hund                                                                                              hee
I                I               I                I               I                I               I                I                I-I                               a
0 



MORYCACE FUND: ACTIVITY REPORT ON AUL APPROVED NOMCACE LOANS
(ZhIp)
INU I MATION ON UNIMS PURC IAS   ll ORACI LAN
Toal l      IO totl, lumber of units by   1pe     O lote!. aumber of suite        Total          Average
number                                                byw land teeure.          nssiber ol       Iwutbol
of   re'Ied        Flas              i            Fee dimple    Purpetual ground   ouebold             e
km ~ ~ fat                   oa                              less           mimbera
I                                                        I                                                        I
I TIION ON MORTGACE WANS
blformmtoU on an  poproved eonsectlion loamt                 towl            Tobl         bInedt             Averie Aee                    Averae lm
TOWamoiint      Total amounlt       of edits      S of aedits     Uut  prki        inedted            a a             t eag         homho             em ma
d an           of credil      from local         from            for all           by            of total        must             inuere        mltipe d
i              *apprd         banks own        Mortpge           malLs         borstsa eat                                                        ge
requets                         resources         Fund                                                                                             uene          l
10X
U-



-151-                          ANNEX N
EST[MATE SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Bank Fiscal                Disbursements         Cumulative             Percent
Year and                  Each Quarter          Disbursement              of
Ouarter Endina              1USS million)           US  millon)           Total_
Fm
June      30, 1992                  13*                13*                   6.5
FY 93
September 30, 1992                    3                 16                   8.0
December  31, 1992                    4                 20                  10.0
March     31, 1993                    4                 24                  12.0
June      30, 1993                    5                 29                  14.5
September 30, 1993                   8                  37                  18.5
December  31, 1993                    8                 45                  22.5
March     30, 1994                    8                 53                  26.5
June      30, 1994                    8                 61                  30.5
FY 95
September  30, 1994                   9                 70                  35.0
December   31, 1994                   9                 79                  39.5
March       30, 1995                  9                 88                  44.0
June        30, 1995                  9                 97                 48.5
FY 96
September 30, 1995                    9                106                 53.0
December  31, 1995                    9                115                  57.5
March      31, 1996                   9                124                  62.0
June      30, 1996                    9                133                  66.5
IlY97
September 30, 1996                    9                142                  71.0
December  31, 1996                   10                152                  76.0
March      31, 1997                  10                162                  81.0
June      30, 1997                   10                172                  86.0
Ty 98
September 30, 1997                   10                182                  91.0
December  31, 1997                    8                190                  95.0
March      31, 1998                   6                196                  98.0
June      30, 1998                    4                200                 100.0
*Includ $ 411 million advance disbursement to establish SpecLal Account.



-152-                        ANNEX 0
Page I of 3
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. POLISH S0URCF8
-Brseski, Wladislaw Jan, selected Housina Issues in Poland, paper given
at the WB/CDC Housing Seminar in Prague, May 1991.
-Chiechocinuka Maya, The Social Imaae of Urban Housino: Dreams and
Realitiest the Came of Poland.
-Hajduk Henryk, Restructurina the House-Buildina Industry D-velopnmnt in
poland.
-Herbst Irena, The Oraanizational Structure  f Housino in Poland, 1950-
29, Institute of Organisation, Management and Bconomics of the
Building Industry, ORGBUD, Warsaw, June 1990.
-Herbst Irena, Housing Construction Financina: System Aesumotions,
Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction Team, Warsaw, February
1991.
-Hopfer, A., Posnlak K., Zwirowicz, K., Selected Asg2cts of Economiee of
Cadestre as an Examinle of Land Information Svotem, Olsxtyn University,
June 1988.
-Jajesczyk, Ryszard, Information about Housina. Manaaement of Housina and
Resource Problems and Solutions, Report of the Chairman of the Task
Force of the Ministry of Spatial Economy and Construction, Warsaw, March
1990.
-Laszek, Jacek, Proportions of Housina Financina, Institute of Land Use
and Municipal Economy, Warsaw, February 1990.
-Ministry of Administration and Spatial Economy: Nonoaraoh on R2nt
Policy in Poland, Warsaw, June 1984.
-Muziol-Weclawowicz, Alina, Philosoohies of Mortaaae Lendino - A Case of
Poland, Institute of Geography and Spatial Organization, Proceedings of
a Conference held in Budapest, June 14-16, 1990.
-Niemczyk, M., and Jedrzejewski, H., The Problems of Land Use Plannina, a
paper to the Polish-American Conference on "Restructuring Housing
Construction in Poland - A Market Solution"   Warsaw, February 18-21,
1991.
-Sulmicki, Jan, &ev Hounina Issues in Poland, report to the President of
the National Bank of Poland, Warsaw, June 9, 1990.
-Zawadzki, Fugenius, Forecast of Buildina Industry Develoument in Poland
till the Year 2000, Institute of Building industry, Management and
Economy, ORGBUD, Warsaw, December 1989.



-153-                             ANNEX 0
Page 2 of 3
- Zelenev, S. Housina in the Centrally Planned Economies of Eastern Europe
and in the USSR, Second Draft.
- Zuziak, Zbigniew K., Environmental Conflict Resolution in Land Use
Control: The Lessons of the US Experience for Poland, The Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, December 1990.
B. WORLD BANK PAPERS
- Poland: Reform. Adlustment and Growth, Annex VI, Housina Report No.
6736-POL, World Bank, August 1987.
- Poland: Aide Memoire of the World Bank Housing Sector Pre-
Identification Mission, January 8-19, 1990.
- Poland: A Strateov for the Housing Sector, Report of the Joint Bank-
Polish Task Force on Housing, World Bank, October 1990.
- Housing and Labor Market Distortions in Poland: Linkaaes and Policy
Implications, by Stephen Mayo and James Stein, June 1988.
- Housing Reform in Socialist Economies, by Bertraud Renaud, a World Bank
Discussion Paper, June 1990.
- The Legal Framework for Private Sector Development in Poland by Cheryl
W. Gray, unpublished mimeographed paper, September 1991.
- Poverty in Eastern Europe in the Years of Crisis: Poland. Hungarv and
Yugoslavia, by Branko Milanovic.
- Structure and Performance of the Housino Sector of the Centrally Planned
Economies, by Hanna Matras, Discussion Paper and Comparative Data Base,
INU Reports No. 53 and 9, World Bank, October, December 1989.
- Alternative Mortaaae Instruments in Distorted Housing Systems: How
Useful is the "DRAM"? by Loic Chiquier and Bertrand Renaud, Draft
Report, EMTIN Regional Studies, January 15, 1992.
- Poland: Decentralization and Reform of the State, by James Hicks, Green
Cover Report No. 10446-POL, Infrastructure Operations, Central Europe
Department, April 27, 1992.
C. USAID. OFFICE OF HOUSING AND URBAN PROGR&MS
- Analysis of On-Lendina Structure Usina the DIM Mortaaae by Elaine Weiss,
Consultant, May 1991.
- The Structure of the Polish Financial System, a report by Elaine Weiss,
Consultant, May 1991.
- Housing Finance Development in Poland, recommendations for USAID, by
Jenne K. Britell and H. Beth Marcus, Jur.e 1991.



-154-
ANNEX 0
Page 3 of 3
- Transformation of the Housina Sector in Poland and Hungary, The Urban
Institute, Washington, D.C. March 1990.
- World Bank Housina Finance Proiect/Poland - June-July 1991 Training
Program TEAM 1 (ABT ASS.INC.), Final Report, Cambridge, Mass. July 1991.
- Poland Housing Finance Proiect: June 1991 Trainina Proarom, TEAM 2
(PADCO) Summary Report, July 1991.
- Report for Services Performed in Poland for PADCO INTL INC. by Thomas
Potocki, Consultant, Warsaw, May 5, 1991.
- The Price of Land in Poland: A Real Estate Valuation Method for a New
Market Economy, by D.V. Calano, J.D. Lippincott, D.M. Michorski,
Washington, D.C. October 1990.
- POLAND HG-001 - Housina Finance and Shelter Production Prooram. Program
Description Paper, Office of Housing and Urban Programs, March, 992.
- Polish HG Technical SupDort and Municioal Advisory Program, Draft Work
Statement; Office of Housing and Urban Programs, May 12, 1992.
D. OTHER SOURCES
- United States Department of Labor, Restructurina Housina in Poland,
Final Conference Report, Warsaw, February 18-21, 1991.
- Cooperative Housing Foundation, Cooperative Housing in Poland: Issues
and Potential, by Judith Hermanson, November 1990.
- National Association of Realtors: Policy Environment for the
Facilitation of Private Housina Construction, by Norman D. Flynn,
Warsaw, February 1991.
- WOCCU, Credit Union Prosoects in Poland, report of the WOCCU mission at
the invitation of the National Executive Commission of Solidarity,
November 1989.
- UN Economic Commission for Europe - WorkshoD on Housina Financina and
Subsidies in the Context of Socio-Economic Transition, Bratislava, April
9-12, 1991.
- Le Loaement en Polocne, by JFG, Caisse des Depots et Consignations,
Paris, June 1990.
- Poland. Housina Finance Proiect: report of Legal Advisor by Charles
Haar, January 17, 1991.
- Economic and Housing Sector Transformation in Eastern Eurooe with Case
Studies of Poland and Hunaary, The Urban Institute, Washington, D.C.
March 1990.



