Report No. PIC1780
Porject Name                   Armenia-Rehabilitation Credit
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Economy-wide
Project ID                     AMPA8275
Principal Responsible Entity   Ministry of Economy
Date PID Prepared              March 21, 1995
Appraisal Date                 January 1995
Board Date                     February 28, 1995
Country Background
I.   Armenia is still experiencing severe economic difficulties arising
from the breakdown of the trade, payments and financial system of the
former Soviet Union, and the consequent severe terms of trade shock. In
addition, the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh has led to a trade and
transport blockade by Azerbaijan, traditionally Armenia's principal
transit route for oil, gas and other products, and the closure of the
Turkish border. The effects of this have been compounded by civil
strife in Georgia. GDP fell by 52 percent in 1992 to about one third of
its 1989 level, and a further 15 percent in 1993. Even allowing for
non-recorded growth in the informal sector, it is clear that the effects
of the blockade have severely compounded the FSU-wide output collapse.
The massive increase in the costs of transport and energy consequent on
the blockade have induced a shift in the structure of production; food
production for domestic consumption and light industrial exports with
low energy and transport costs, such as jewelry, have grown in
importance relative to bulky export goods, such as machinery.
II. Living standards have plummeted in Armenia in recent years and a
substantial proportion of the population is living in poverty. Average
real wages at the end of 1993 had fallen to about 6 percent of their
level two years earlier. In June, 1994, the average wage in the state
sector stood at about US$ 2 a month (equivalent, for example, to one
kilo of meat) and US$ 4-5 economy-wide; the average monthly pension was
about US$ 1. Registered unemployment reached aost 7 percent of the
labor force in May 1994, and an estimated 12 percent were on shortened
hours or forced leave. Severe energy shortages have sharply reduced the
availability of electricity and heating to households, particularly in
winter. The bulk of the population appears to be living on remittances
from the diaspora, humanitarian aid, and income from informal sector
activity, primarily in subsistence agriculture.
III. However, there have been several recent positive developments in
Armenia's relations with its neighbors. Of greatest importance is the
progress towards peace in the 6-year-old Karabakh conflict: on July 27,
1994, Azerbaijan, Karabakh, and Armenia signed an agreement in Moscow
formalizing the ceasefire, which has held since May 1994, and providing
for the immediate commencement of negotiations of a comprehensive peace
agreement. This development offers a real prospect of a lifting of the
blockade in the near future.(see 1/) In addition, rapidly-growing trade



with Iran, which is now second in importance only to that with Russia,
and increasing stability in Georgia have significantly eased Armenia's
isolation (the latter is of particular importance for improved transit
of supplies). In the first half of 1994, GDP is estimated to have grown
by 2-3 percent (compared to the same period in 1993); the increase
reflects, at least in part, the development of these alternative trade
routes.
The Country's Adjustment Program
IV. Faced with rampant inflation, and after the introduction of a
national currency, the authorities began to tighten financial policies
in early 1994. Beginning in the second quarter of 1994, public
expenditures were limited to priority items (which included a drastic
reduction in net lending and subsidies to enterprises), and revenue
collection was enhanced; consequently, monetary growth declined and the
central bank refinance rate became highly positive in real terms.
Inflation declined from an average of 46 percent per month in the first
quarter of 1994 to less than 3 percent per month in the third
quarter.(see 2/) Monetary tightness has also been reflected in the
stability of the nominal exchange rate since May 1994 and the sharp
appreciation of the dram in real terms over the same period. The
authorities' stabilization program for 1995 is supported by a Systemic
Transformation Facility from the IMF (the first drawing of SDR 16.875
million was approved on December 14, 1994), and discussions on a Standby
Arrangement and an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility are
proceeding.
V.   The reform process in Armenia started with a lot of momentum just
after independence, with the privatization of 87 percent of agricultural
land and of more than 300 small-scale enterprises. This momentum was
subsequently somewhat dissipated in the day-to-day management of a siege
economy. However, in conjunction with the stabilization efforts
mentioned above, the Government regained the momentum of the structural
reform program. During 1994, privatization of small scale enterprises
restarted and preparation for medium- to large-scale privatization
accelerated. To harden the enterprise budget constraint, budget
subsidies to enterprises were eliminated and central bank credit was
supplied at market-determined interest rates. Measures to tighten
payments discipline for energy were taken, prudential regulation of the
financial sector was strengthened, and bank supervision was reinforced.
VI. In 1995, the Government intends to deepen the process of structural
reform, supported by the Rehabilitation Credit. The Government's
program contains a number of interdependent elements. The continued
hardening of enterprise budget constraints will encourage enterprises to
respond to the new market forces. This shift in behavior will be
induced through accelerated privatization and improved enforceability of
creditor rights (including the enactment and enforcement of a bankruptcy
law). Strict financial policy, the improved prudential regulation of
the fragile banking sector, clearing of enterprise arrears and a program
to isolate and restructure or liquidate major loss-makers will serve to
support the changes at the enterprise level that are expected. The
removal of remaining undue restrictions on the emerging private sector
will also be undertaken to encourage new private activity and to
-2 -



integrate the substantial informal sector into the formal economy.
Export controls have been abolished, import tariffs are low and uniform,
and the state's direct role in trading is being reduced as fast as
energy security constraints allow. Finally, the targeting of the social
safety net is being significantly improved in order to protect the
sections of the population most affected by the removal of bread and
electricity subsidies, and to allow the pension system to be more
effective and affordable in the medium term.
The Credit
VII. The credit of SDR 41.5 million (the equivalent of approximately US$
60 million) is to the Republic of Armenia represented by the Ministry of
Finance. The loan is providing quick-disbursing balance of payments
support on evidence that imports of eligible goods have taken place.
Disbursements are made to the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA), and an
account of the Ministry of Finance at the CBA is credited with the dram
equivalent at the official exchange rate of the day;(see 3/) the
Government thereby receives non-inflationary budget support. The foreign
exchange proceeds of the credit are sold by the CBA or held in reserves,
in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy.(see 4/) The
credit is on standard IDA terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10
year grace period.
VIII.     Cofinancing to the amount of 5 million guilders from the
Government of the Netherlands has been identified for the credit.
Further co-financing or parallel financing for quick-disbursing balance
of payments assistance is being sought; at the Consultative Group
Meeting held on November 22, 1994, pledges were made equal to two-thirds
of Armenia's estimated financing needs for 1995. Financing for
technical assistance to support a number of measures in the Government's
reform program will be provided by the Bank's Institution Building Loan
or by other donors.
IX. The objectives of the credit are: (i) to support the Government's
reform program to stabilize the economy and create the conditions for a
resumption of growth and an improvement in living standards; (ii) to
provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports,
particularly for the private sector; (iii) to provide budgetary support,
especially for the strengthening of the social safety net for the most
vulnerable groups; and (iv) to provide a framework for urgently-needed
financial assistance from other donors.
X.   The program includes policies that: (a) promote the development of
competitive markets and of the private sector, through privatization,
liberalization and regulatory reform; (b) result in improved financial
discipline for enterprises and banks; and (c) improve the targeting of
the social safety net to the most needy.
XI. The credit is poverty-focused since it will support improvements in
the targeting of social benefits to the poorest groups: the elderly,
children, the low-paid, and the unemployed. In the near term, benefits
provided by the state to those groups will be increased; in the medium
term, the pension system will be restructured to provide higher benefits
to those without alternative means of support.
-3 -



XII. The structural reform program supported by the credit will, in
conjunction with macroeconomic stabilization supported by the IMF,
foster the development of a competitive market economy, led by the
private sector. This will promote the efficient allocation of resources
to underpin economic growth and a reduction of poverty. The credit will
provide critical import support to allow economic recovery and to stem
the decline in living standards, particularly of the poorest, and will
do so through market mechanisms. The credit should serve to catalyze
similar financing from other donors.
XIII.     The risk of slippage in reform in the face of sociopolitical
opposition will be mitigated by improved targeting of the social safety
net and continued humanitarian assistance from donors and from the
Armenian diaspora. The implementation of the reform program could be
undermined by institutional weaknesses, although the provision of
technical assistance through the Institution Building Loan and support
from other donors will help to offset this risk. The Consultative Group
process is designed to mitigate the risk of the donor community
providing insufficient balance of payments financing in support of
reform. An additional risk is that aggregate demand will recover only
slowly in Armenia's FSU markets, and that access to non-traditional
export markets will be undermined by protectionism. A further risk is
the resumption of hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh, and the consequent
continuation of Armenia's economic isolation. However, the current
peace negotiations appear to be moving in a positive direction and
economic recovery should increase popular support for peace.
XIV. Out of the credit, SDR 12.45 million (or 30 percent of the total
credit) will be disbursed against Armenia's actual imports (excluding
items covered by the negative list) since October 31, 1994, i.e., four
months prior to the date of signing. This retroactive financing is
justified by the up-front action already taken by the Government on many
important elements of the reform program.
XV. The project will have no direct impact on the environment. For the
purposes of OD 4.01, it has therefore been placed in Category U which
does not require an environmental assessment.
1/   The December 1994 meeting in Budapest of the Organization for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (O.S.C.E.) decided to send a
multilateral peacekeeping force to Nagorno-Karabakh and to enhance the
coordination between the O.S.C.E. and Russia on the Nagorno-Karabakh
issue.
2/   Prices rose again in the fourth quarter of 1994 by an average 27
percent per month, in large part as a result of substantial increases in
administered prices (most significantly a 1000 percent in the price of
bread as the first step to eliminating bread subsidies and a 600 percent
increase in the household electricity tariff which removed the cross-
subsidy between industry and households). In January 1995, inflation
fell again to 3.9 percent.
3/   The official exchange rate is defined in Armenia as the rate
determined by the latest auction.
-4-



4/   The CBA sells foreign exchange to banks on behalf of their clients
(through the interbank auction) and to the Government for its own needs
(at the rate established in the latest auction.)
Task Manager:
Jon Walters, EC4C2
(202) 473-2468 (tel)
(202) 477 3378 (fax)
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



