Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:       i6337
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
(CR 26830 - AM)
FEBRUARY 27, 1997
Country Operations Division ll
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1997)
Currency Unit   =   Dram
US$1   =   463 Dram
January 31, 1995 US$1       406 Dram
December 1, 1995 US$1    =   403 Dram
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  - Country Assistance Strategy
CG      Consultative Group
FSU   -  Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
IFC  -  International Finance Corporation
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
SAC  -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SATAC   -  Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
SBA      Stand-By Arrangement
STF  -  Systemic Transformation Facility
ARMENIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director: Basil Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief: Wafik Grais, EC4C2
Responsible Staff: Ana Revenga, Country Economist, EC4C2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface .......................................................i
Evaluation Summary .......................................................ii
Part I:  Project Performance Judgment and  Analysis ......................................................                                       1l
A. Project Objectives .....................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................................3
C. Implementation  Record  and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................6
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................8
E. World Bank Performance .....................................................8
F. Borrower Performance .....................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                                                               10
H. Future Operations .....................................................                                                                  10
I. Key Lessons Learned ......................................................11
Part II: Statistical Tables ......................................................                                                             13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ....................................................                                                        13
Table 2: Related  Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................                                                   15
Table 3: Project Timetable ....................................................                                                             16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................................ 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................................                                     18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .....................................................                                        22
Table 7:  Studies Included  in Project ....................................................                                                23
Table 8A: Project Costs ....................................................                                                               24
Table 8B: Project Financing ....................................................                                                           25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .....................................................                                                 26
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                                                 27
Table  11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................................................... 28
Table  12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ....................................................                                              29
Table  13: Bank Resources:  Missions ....................................................                                                  30
Appendices ........................................................................... 31
Appendix A  - Project Review  from  the Borrower's Perspective .............................................  31
Appendix B - Map .............................................                                                                             33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
of ficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                  






Implementation Completion Report
Republic of Armenia
Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 26830-AM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Credit to
Armenia, for which a credit 26830-AM in the amount of US$60 million equivalent was approved
on February 28, 1995 and made effective on March 7, 1995.
The credit was closed on the original closing date of June 30, 1996. The credit was fully
disbursed by August 28, 1995. There was cofinancing for the project of 13 million Dutch
guilders from the Government of the Netherlands and of US$1 million from the Government of
Argentina.
The Task Manager for the credit was Jonathan Walters, Country Economist for EC4C2.
Near the end of the credit, Ana Revenga, also a Country Economist for EC4C2 took over this
responsibility. The ICR was prepared by Gary McMahon, Consultant, for the Country
Operations Division IV of the Europe and Central Asia Region, and reviewed by Wafik Grais,
Division Chief, EC4C2, and Judy O'Connor, Principal Operations Officer, EC4DR. The
borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was done as a desk task in the second half of 1996. It is based on
material in the project file, including Report No. P-6782-AM for the Structural Adjustment
Credit to the Republic of Armenia. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project and by commenting on the draft ICR.






-ii-
Republic of Armenia
Rehabilitation Credit
(26830-AM)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The World Bank had approved nine lending operations in Armenia at the time of this
Implementation Completion Report. The Rehabilitation Credit was the fifth operation to be
undertaken by the Bank in Armenia. It followed the Institution Building Loan (US$12 million)
in 1993 and three infrastructure rehabilitation credits in 1994-the Earthquake Reconstruction
Credit (US$28 million), the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (US$43 million), and the Power
Maintenance Project (US$13.7 million). It was also preceded by a purchase of SDR16.875
million from the IMF under the Systemic Transformation Facility (STF). The structural reform
program that the Rehabilitation Credit supported was designed to complement the stabilization
program supported by the STF. The Rehabilitation Credit was followed by the Highways
Rehabilitation Credit (US$16 million), Structural Adjustment Credit (US$60 million), Social
Investment Fund Credit (US$12 million), and Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit
(US$3.8 million). Economic and sector work has been undertaken in agriculture and food,
energy, and environment. A country economic memorandum, poverty assessment and limited
country assistance strategy (CAS) have also been undertaken. A full CAS is scheduled for fiscal
year 1997.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objective of the credit was to support the economic reform program of the
Government of Armenia, whose principal goals were restoring macroeconomic stability and
promoting the resumption of growth and an improvement in living standards. While the
principal objectives were rather broad and difficult to evaluate (although less so for stabilization),
the agreement contained a large number of implementation goals which were also used to
evaluate the success of the credit.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The results of the reform program and the credit have been highly successful. Almost all
of the detailed reforms undertaken in the context of the project have been fulfilled or surpassed.
On the stabilization front, results have been remarkable: cumulative inflation in 1996 was 8
percent, down from 1,885 percent in 1994 and from 26 percent in 1995. GDP growth of nearly 7
percent was achieved in 1995, and sustained in 1996. The nominal exchange rate has stabilized
and the real exchange rate has appreciated substantially. Recent positive developments in



-iii-
Armenia's relationship with its neighbors, have contributed to strengthening the results of
economic reform. Armenia's isolation from international markets has been significantly eased
by the recovery of the Georgian economy, and rapidly growing trade with Iran. Nevertheless, the
blockade by Turkey and Azerbaijan continues to be a significant impediment to sustained
economic growth.
4.    Despite the success of the reform program supported under the credit, Armenia's
economic recovery remains fragile. The benefits of renewed growth have not yet reached all
segments of the population, and real incomes remain significantly below their pre-independence
levels. While realizing large increases in real incomes necessarily will take time, there is a
danger that the reforms will be undermined if significant benefits to the general population take
too long to materialize. Moreover, despite progress to reduce public dissaving, total domestic
savings remain negative. This is to be expected given the magnitude of the economic collapse in
Armenia, but cannot continue indefinitely. Efforts to mobilize private savings and channel them
into the formal economy will be key to consolidating and sustaining growth in the future.
Further progress on energy sector reform is also crucial if the gains achieved to date are to be
consolidated. Although the Rehabilitation Credit went some way to increase electricity tariffs
and impose greater discipline on energy payments (actions which were subsequently deepened
and extended under the Structural Adjustment Credit), the financial situation of the whole energy
sector remains precarious. The accumulation of large external arrears on gas payments to
Turkmenistan in 1995 was one of the weaker points of the reform program supported by the
Rehabilitation Credit; the emergence of new (albeit much smaller) energy arrears in 1996 under
the Structural Adjustment Credit bears witness to the difficulty of solving this problem.
5.    Other weak points in the original program (some of which were subsequently remedied
under the follow-up Structural Adjustment Credit) included: (a) the targeting of benefits based
on number of children (designed based on the experience of other FSU countries) turned out ex-
post to have been misplaced, as a subsequent Poverty Assessment revealed that larger families
were not more likely to be poor than smaller ones, and that, in fact, in rural areas families with
more children were less likely to be poor; (b) privatization was slower than expected, in large
part because of the complexities of the approval process and the inexperience of the staff
involved-more attention should have been paid from the start to streamlining privatization
procedures; (c) the program should have focused more carefully on existing mechanisms and
incentives for enterprise restructuring-in particular, efforts to draft an appropriate bankruptcy
law and create bankruptcy procedures should have been initiated sooner.
6.    The support lent to the reform program by the Bank and the IMF has been successful in
maintaining donor focus on Armenia, but less so in attracting significant new aid flows. Total
grant flows were approximately US$237 million in 1994, US$182 million in 1995, an US$178
million in 1996. This declining trend is expected to accentuate as humanitarian aid is replaced
by official lending. Overall, Armenia's ambitious reform effort remains seriously underfunded:
total amounts pledged for 1996 at the recent CG meetings amounted to only US$106 million.
Multilateral sources provided some US$193 million of financing in 1996; but are unlikely to
keep providing even this level of support on a sustained basis.



-iv-
7.    The success of the project has been due to a number of factors, including the commitment
of the Government of Armenia (which initiated reforms before any international support was
available), its understanding of the reforms and the related sense of ownership, and its ability to
mobilize other funds and effectively coordinate donor efforts (and particularly those of the bank
and IMF). One of the most important factors was the degree of continuity of the project teams
on both the government and Bank side, which allowed for the accumulation of experience and
knowledge on both sides and prevented reversals in the program. Also important on the Bank
side was the close degree of coordination between the policy dialogue conducted under the
framework of the Rehabilitation Credit, and ongoing project and economic work in the sectors
(especially energy). A final important factor was the creation of a tabula rasa by the conjunction
of a number of circumstances, including the earthquake, the end of the war with Azerbaijan, the
partial blockade, the breakdown of trading patterns of the old FSU, and the transition in general.
These developments helped destroy or temporarily immobilize interests which may have
attempted to block or delay the reforms. The Government of Armenia with the help of Bank and
IMF staff moved quickly to take advantage of these historic circumstances before strong
blocking coalitions of vested interests could be formed.
8.   In sum, the Credit and the associated programs have achieved as much or more than
could be realistically expected in such a short time-span. Most of the main economic targets
were reached or surpassed. The performance of the Bank and the Government of Armenia were
highly satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    At the moment there does not appear to be any strong organized opposition to the reform
process. The September 1996 presidential elections and subsequent protests revealed growing
popular discontent, particularly in Yerevan. However, this appears to reflect more frustration
with the failure of real incomes to rise significantly, than opposition to the economic reform
process itself. Other than the resumption of hostilities with Azerbaijan, there are three significant
dangers to the sustainability of the reforms. First, if the rewards continue to come slowly, the
long-term significance of the reforms may not be appreciated. In particular, it is not clear for
how long the population will continue to tolerate the present living standards without demanding
change. In the short-run an increase in the supply and reliability of basic goods such as
electricity and water are crucial. It is also essential that the Government fill in the social half of
the reform program, which will only be possible if the education, health and civil sector reforms
initiated under the SAC are successfully implemented and the tax effort is increased. Pensions
and civil service wages are also at levels which are not likely to be sustainable in the long-run.
The second danger is that access to export markets, crucial for the long-term economic recovery
of Armenia, will be limited. This could be due to the lack of growth in FSU countries, the
resurgence of conflict in Georgia, or - most importantly - the continuation of the blockade by
Turkey. Third, in the absence of a solution to the regional conflict, foreign investment in the
magnitudes needed to sustain growth over the medium-term may fail to materialize.
10.   The follow-up to the Armenia Rehabilitation Credit has already begun in the form of
credits to support the continuation of comprehensive reforms (Structural Adjustment Credit),



institution building (Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit), infrastructure
rehabilitation (Highways Rehabilitation Credit), and poverty alleviation (Social Investment
Fund). The Structural Adjustment Credit, in particular, is built upon the outcome and success of
this project. Its main goals are to deepen the structural reforms already achieved as well as to
help rectify some of the critical problem areas, such as the energy, health and education sectors.
Projects to support health and education reform are under preparation, as are a follow-up
operations in the energy sector, a municipal development project (focusing on water supply and
housing), and projects to support agricultural reform and private sector development.
11.   The main lessons of this Credit are the following:
(i)   Timeliness and a tabula rasa: The most important lesson to be learned from
this project is that the most desperate situations often afford the greatest possibility of
change. Upon independence in 1991 Armenia quickly began its reform effort, although
the war with Azerbaijan and related developments quickly constrained the Government.
In 1994 Armenia was suffering from hyperinflation, and had one of the lowest per
capita incomes in the FSU countries. Following the cease-fire in the Spring of 1994,
and with assistance from the World Bank and IMF, the stabilization and reform
program was implemented quickly and extensively. As coalitions of vested interests
against change were very weak, in a short period it was possible to introduce and
implement a package of reforms which was much stronger than in many other FSU
countries. In essence the lesson is that it is important to move quickly and boldly when
such an opportunity arises, before the formation of change-blocking coalitions.
(ii)   Government understanding, commitment and ownership: While it is
commonplace (and perhaps no longer necessary) to emphasize the importance of recipient
commitment and ownership, the true lesson from this project is that neither of these is
likely to be satisfactory if the recipient does not understand the project in more than a
superficial way. The Government of Armenia's commitment to the reform process and
this project were the result of a deep understanding of the reforms, including the
inevitable short-run costs.
(iii) Continuity in the project team: Since Independence in September 1991, the
Armenian Government has been drawn primarily from the Armenian National
Movement. This political continuity allowed key Government policy makers to
accumulate significant post-Independence experience, with contributed greatly to the
smoothness and success of the reforms. Continuity in the Bank country team was also
important, as it helped cement a solid dialogue with the Armenian authorities, encouraged
trust, and preserved institutional knowledge on the Bank side. Also important on the
Bank side was the close degree of coordination between the policy dialogue conducted
under the framework of the Rehabilitation Credit, and ongoing project and economic
work in the sectors (especially energy), as well as extensive coordination with the IMF.



-vi-
(iv)   Institutional support as a necessary condition: Adequate institutional support
was a necessary condition for the success of the project. This support was supplied in the
project itself and through the Institution Building Credit. Failure to meet the privatization
targets was largely due to the fact that they were unrealistic given the institutional
capacity. Cooperation with the IMF was also important in building institutional capacity,
particularly in the areas of fiscal and monetary policies.
(v)   The importance of the legal system and judiciary process: Most of the delays
which took place in the project, including privatization, were largely due to difficulties in
designing and implementing a consistent set of laws and procedures. Given the
involvement of Parliament (or a similar institution) in such a process, either less
ambitious time tables or more active participation of members of Parliament from the
beginning is required.
(vi)   The importance of interdependency: Another lesson is the need to recognize
the interdependency of social and economic policies. Although this has been rectified in
the Structural Adjustment Credit, relatively little attention was placed in the
Rehabilitation Credit on social concerns in Armenia, despite the widespread poverty,
large declines in life expectancy, and deterioration of the education system. The future of
Armenia depends on its human resources, given its lack of natural resources; accordingly,
the success of any economic reform program will depend greatly on social reform and
rehabilitation.
(vii) The energy sector: In all FSU and Eastern and Central European countries, it is
particularly important to pay strong and early attention to the energy sector. Past energy
pricing had little to do with actual costs, and tariffs had to be raised enormously just to
approach operation and maintenance costs. Initially, collection rates were very low - in
large part because households were unwilling to pay for unreliable and low quality
electricity supply. The combination of increased energy metering, and improved quality
and reliability of supply, have succeeded in greatly augmenting households' willingness
to pay. The result has been vastly increased collections from the population - which in
mid-1996 had already reached 60% (up from 30% in 1995 and 10% in 1994). This case
shows that increased quality of service and improved financial discipline go hand-in-
hand.






Implementation Completion Report
Rehabilitation Credit
(Credit No. 26830)
Republic of Armenia
Part I: Project Performance Judgment and Analysis
A. Project Objectives
1.    When Armenia gained its independence in September 1991, it faced enormous
challenges. In addition to the problems caused by the breakup of the Soviet Union and the
existing trading patterns, it was left with a particularly unenviable industrial legacy. Its structure
of production - based largely on the production of light industrial goods, heavy industrial
products, foodstuffs, and semi-finished goods, mainly for the FSU market - was considerably out
of line with its natural comparative advantage. Armenia also had more than its share of the
Soviet military-industrial complex. Any "competitiveness" that Armenia may have had in most
of these products was lost when artificially low transport and energy prices disappeared. To
make matters even more difficult, Armenia does not have abundant natural resources, its
agricultural base is poor, it still had not recovered from the devastating 1988 earthquake, and
soon after independence war broke out with Azerbaijan over the Nagorno-Karabakh region. The
latter led to an additional blockade from Turkey, the effect of which was compounded by
transport difficulties in Georgia, due to the then prevailing civil wars in that country.
2.    On the other hand, relative to the other countries of the region, Armenia has a well
educated and entrepreneurial minded labor force, and a long tradition of trade, determined in part
by its strategic location. These sources of comparative advantage should make the transition to a
market-based system somewhat easier. Armenia's external debt was also relatively low at
independence and has remained so. Finally, the large, affluent Armenian diaspora throughout the
world has been generous with humanitarian assistance and is expected to contribute significantly
to the renewal of private investment.
3.    When negotiations began in 1994 for this US$60 million Rehabilitation Credit, Armenia
(like its neighbor Georgia) was in the midst of one of the worst economic crises that a country
has ever suffered. From independence to the end of 1993, GDP fell by approximately 60 percent.
Annual inflation was 3,732 percent in 1993 and 1,885 percent in 1994. In 1993 the fiscal deficit
was 48 percent of GDP, while the current account deficit was 43 percent of GDP before official
transfers. The large fiscal deficit and the resulting hyperinflation were the direct results of the
inability to control expenditures in a time of military conflict and economic crisis. These
expenditures reached 85 percent of GDP in 1993. While tax revenues fell from about 50 percent
of GDP in 1992 to 16 percent in 1993, the latter is a relatively respectable figure for a country of
Armenia's income level with a market economy. Still it is clear that the drop in expenditures



-2-
was not synchronized with the decrease in revenues. The large current account deficit arose
from enormous increases in energy and transport costs due to the blockade and the end of the
Soviet trading block. Real wages declined over 90 percent from 1991 to 1993. There were
severe energy shortages, particularly in winter. On the social side, both the education and health
systems were deteriorating rapidly and only large amounts of humanitarian assistance prevented
a complete collapse of the latter. Government expenditures on health and education were,
respectively, only 2.9 percent and 4 percent of (a greatly reduced) GDP in 1994.
4.    The Rehabilitation Credit was the fifth operation to be undertaken by the Bank in
Armenia since cooperation began in 1993. It followed the Institution Building Loan (US$12
million) in 1993 and three infrastructure rehabilitation credits in 1994-the Earthquake
Reconstruction Credit (US$28 million), the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (US$43 million),
and the Power Maintenance Project (US$13.7 million). It was also preceded by a purchase of
SDR1 6.875 million by Armenia from the IMF under the Systemic Transformation Facility
(STF). The structural reform program that the Rehabilitation Credit supported was designed to
complement the stabilization program supported by the STF.
5.    The main objective of the credit was to support the economic reform program of the
Government of Armenia, whose principle goals were restoring macroeconomic stability and
promoting the resumption of growth and an improvement in living standards. To reach these
goals the reform program contained three components. The first focused on the development of
competitive markets and of the private sector, through privatization, liberalization and regulatory
reform. The second aimed at improved financial discipline for enterprises and banks, while the
third component sought to improve the targeting of the social safety net. To help in the
implementation of the reform program, this credit was to provide: (i) budgetary support,
especially for the strengthening of the social safety net for the most vulnerable groups; (ii)
foreign exchange for the purchase of critical imports, particularly for the private sector; and (iii)
a framework for urgently needed financial assistance from other donor agencies.
6.    On the surface, the objectives of the project and the policies that it supported were quite
broad. Hence the project's success is difficult to evaluate, given that many other factors (such as
the easing of Armenia's economic isolation) may have influenced the outcomes. However, the
description of the project contains many specific recommendations and obligations which were
intended to further the policy goals of the Government and ultimately improve the
macroeconomic situation. Accordingly, the evaluation of this project will focus as much on
these intermediate goals and targets as on the main objectives of the project. With regards to the
latter, objectives comprising stabilization, growth, and an improvement in living standards may
seem overly ambitious in a project expected to last about one year. But, given the depths to
which the economy of Armenia had sunk, the end of the war with Azerbaijan, and the experience
of other countries following a hyperinflation, they were not unrealistic.
7.    The Bank did not have a full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Armenia; the
development of a full CAS is scheduled for 1997. However, a limited CAS was prepared for
presentation to the Board with this project. In addition, a Country Economic Memorandum was
prepared in 1993, and by the time of approval of this project there was an energy sector review,



-3-
an agriculture and food sector review, and an informal environmental review. This project
clearly supported the ongoing dialogue between the Bank and the Government of Armenia.
8.    The project was risky for a number of reasons, as identified in the project report. A
resumption of war with Azerbaijan was the greatest risk and would likely have completely
derailed the project. However, given the extreme deterioration in living conditions, it would
have been even riskier to wait longer before proceeding with project preparation. It was also
acknowledged that the probability of success would be increased by the end of the Turkish (and
Azerbaijani) blockade, although this is yet to materialize. The Institution Building Loan was
designed to help provide adequate capacity to undertake the project, although it was realistically
acknowledged that a reliance on gap-filling technical assistance would be necessary in the short-
term. It was also acknowledged that without other external assistance the credit would likely be
insufficient to meet the short-term demands of Armenia. Therefore, the Bank pledged assistance
in the mobilization of other resources through the Consultative Group process. Finally, there
was a need to deal with a lack of political consensus and the social tensions arising from the
restructuring and the great decline in living standards. In order to mitigate the worst effects on
poverty one goal of the project was to improve targeting of the social safety net, which allowed
for an increase in the absolute level of benefits to the (targeted) recipients. The mobilization of
humanitarian assistance from other donors and the Armenian diaspora was also seen as critical in
this regard.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
9.    The results of the reform program and the credit were highly successful. As discussed in
the next section, most of the detailed reforms undertaken in the context of the project were
fulfilled or surpassed; reforms behind schedule were completed in 1996. The major economic
indicators showed large improvements. Moreover, the Bank and the IMF were modestly
successful in attracting other funds for the reform process through the Consultative Group
process (although overall Armenia's reform program remained underfunded). There have also
been some improvements in external circumstances, which will help sustain the results. The
improvement of the Georgian situation has helped ease the difficult transport situation, and trade
with Iran has increased substantially. Nevertheless, the blockade by Turkey and Azerbaijan
continues to be a significant impediment to economic recovery in Armenia.
10.   During the negotiation of the Rehabilitation Credit and during the twelve months after it
was passed by the Board, significant reforms were undertaken in price liberalization, energy
sector pricing and payments, the external trade and payments regime, private enterprise
development, privatization, the financial sector, social assistance, and the housing market. Some
of these reforms were undertaken in the context of the STF of the IMF (which was followed in
June 1995 by the approval of a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)); others were strengthened in the
negotiations of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), which followed the Rehabilitation
Credit. While it is difficult to attribute the improvement in the macroeconomic situation to a



-4-
single reform or program, the cumulative results of these combined efforts have been notable.
Monthly inflation fell from 46 percent on average in the first quarter of 1994 to below 1 percent
per month by end-1995. The fiscal deficit in 1995 was 8.7 percent, well below the target of 12
percent. A new national currency, the dram, was introduced in November 1993; in 1995 it
appreciated 90 percent in real terms with respect to the US dollar. There was positive growth in
GDP of 6.9 percent in 1995. Export growth in 1995 was 22 percent and, more importantly,
export growth to non-FSU countries was 78 percent. In addition, there has been a small (but
encouraging) amount of foreign direct investment.
11.   The decline in inflation, positive economic growth (revealed especially through a boom
in trade and other service sectors), and slowly rising real wages have all translated into modest
improvements in the living standards of the population. Most important of, perhaps, has been the
improvement in the quality and availability of electricity supply. In 1995, the system was able to
provide on average only four hours of electricity per day (which nevertheless represented a large
improvement over 1994); in 1996, 50-60 percent of households received 24 hours of electricity.
12.   The benefits of growth, however, have not reached all segments of the population. As
recent surveys revealed, poverty remains pervasive in Armenia, with nearly 30 percent of
households classified as poor. The Government has tried to improve the living standards of these
most needy citizens through better targeting of government expenditures. Subsidies for bread
and electricity were replaced by cash transfers to the most vulnerable categories of people -
children, the unemployed, and pensioners dependent on administered incomes. The Government
also started targeting the distribution of humanitarian assistance. However, the lack of strong
correlates for poverty has made accurate targeting of transfers extremely difficult. For example,
child allowances were initially adjusted to increase more than proportionally for larger families.
But results of household surveys subsequently revealed that families with more children were not
more likely to be poor; the targeting of large families was hence adjusted (under the framework
of the SAC) to correct for this. Despite the improvement in targeting, social transfers remain
very low, and are insufficient on their own to move families out of poverty. Social distress has
been further compounded by the dramatic decline in other social expenditures: expenditures on
public health, for example, were halved each year between 1992 and 1994. Falling real wages
and low expenditures have all contributed to deteriorating quality and services in the health and
education sectors. This decline has been accompanied by an increase in informal (private)
payments to providers, to the detriment of those households who are poor. Reversing this
situation will require an comprehensive reform of the role of government in this sector, along
with a significant increases in public expenditures in the social sectors. Whether the latter
materializes, however, will depend a great deal on savings in other parts of the budget and an
improved tax effort.
13.   One of the objectives of the project was to provide a framework for mobilizing and
coordinating much-needed assistance from other donors. In this regard, the project was only
partly successful. Efforts by the Bank and the IMF were indeed essential in mobilizing other
donors through the Consultative Group process, but results in terms of attracting new aid flows
were fairly modest. Total grant flows were approximately US$237 million in 1994, US$182
million in 1995, an US$178 million in 1996. This declining trend is expected to accentuate as



-5-
humanitarian aid is replaced by official lending. Overall, Armenia's ambitious reform effort
remains seriously underfunded: total amounts pledged for 1996 at the recent CG meetings
amounted to only US$106 million. Multilateral sources provided some US$193 million of
financing in 1996; but are unlikely to keep providing even this level of support on a sustained
basis.
14.   Despite the success of the reform program supported under the credit, Armenia's
economic recovery remains fragile. The benefits of renewed growth have not yet reached all
segments of the population, and real incomes remain significantly below their pre-independence
levels. While realizing large increases in real incomes necessarily will take time, there is a
danger that the reforms will be undermined if significant benefits to the general population take
too long to materialize. Moreover, despite progress to reduce public dissaving, domestic savings
remain highly negative. This is to be expected given the magnitude of the economic collapse in
Armenia, but cannot continue indefinitely. Efforts to mobilize private savings and channel them
into the formal economy will be key to consolidating and sustaining growth in the future.
Further progress on energy sector reform is also crucial if the gains achieved to date are to be
consolidated. Although the Rehabilitation Credit went some way to increase electricity tariffs
and impose greater discipline on energy payments (actions which were subsequently deepened
and extended under the Structural Adjustment Credit), the financial situation of the whole energy
sector remains precarious. The accumulation of large external arrears on gas payments to
Turkmenistan in 1995 was one of the weaker points of the reform program supported by the
Rehabilitation Credit; the emergence of new (albeit much smaller) energy arrears in 1996 under
the Structural Adjustment Credit bears witness to the difficulty of solving this problem.
15.   Other weak points in the original program (some of which were subsequently remedied
under the follow-up Structural Adjustment Credit) included: (a) the targeting of benefits based
on number of children (designed based on the experience of other FSU countries) turned out ex-
post to have been misplaced, as a subsequent Poverty Assessment revealed that larger families
were not more likely to be poor than smaller ones, and that, in fact, in rural areas families with
more children were less likely to be poor; (b) privatization was slower than expected, in large
part because of the complexities of the approval process and the inexperience of the staff
involved - more attention should have been paid from the start to streamlining privatization
procedures; (c) the program should have focused more carefully on existing mechanisms and
incentives for enterprise restructuring - in particular, efforts to draft an appropriate bankruptcy
law and create bankruptcy procedures should have been initiated sooner.
16.  In sum, the Credit and the associated programs have achieved as much or more than
could be realistically expected in such a short time-span. Most of the main macroeconomic
targets were reached or surpassed, although in 1995 GDP growth fell somewhat short of its
(perhaps unrealistic) target. Not surprisingly for a first operation, the program did not tackle
reforms in all areas. Some, such as a comprehensive reform of the financial sector, were left for a
follow-up credit that could build on the institutions strengthened by the first loan. Others, such
as the incentives for enterprise restructuring, were perhaps not sufficiently addressed in the
credit - an error which was subsequently corrected by the SAC. Overall, however, the credit has
to be considered very successful; and particularly, when viewed as a first step of an ongoing



-6-
comprehensive program comprising a second adjustment loan and several sector projects. From
the point of view of evaluating the success of the credit, it would have been helpful to include
among the main objectives some more precise targets or monitoring indicators - a lesson which
should be incorporated into future loans. We will see below, however, that the program
performed exceptionally well on most implementation goals, which could, to some extent, be
considered intermediate targets.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   As noted above, the fulfillment of the main objectives of the credit was dependent on the
satisfaction of a large number of conditions and recommendations. Many of these were
undertaken in support of the Board presentation. Others were undertaken as conditions for the
preparation of a second credit. The major reforms undertaken in the context of this credit are
discussed below.
18.   Price liberalization is almost complete. All consumer subsidies have been eliminated
except those on district heating and hot water (which most households are not receiving in any
case), and those for energy - which comprise both an explicit subsidy as tariffs are less than full
cost, and an implicit subsidy as collections are still not 100%. All administered prices are
adjusted on a regular basis to maintain their real value. Moreover, electricity tariffs are being
increased progressively to meet full operations and maintenance by end- 1996, and full cost-
recovery by end-1997.
19.   Clearing trade was reduced considerably in 1995 and eliminated completely in 1996.
There is still some barter trade - mostly for natural gas from Turkmenistan - but it is voluntary
in nature and does not involve any role for Government. The surrender requirement for export
earnings has been eliminated; the import tariff is low and fairly uniform (there are two bands at
0% and 10%); all regulatory obstacles to exports have been abolished; and foreign exchange
markets have been liberalized.
20.   Although 85 percent of agricultural land was privatized by 1992, the legal framework for
private property was undeveloped. Within the framework of this Credit, a real property code, a
new companies code, a bankruptcy law, and a collateral law have been adopted. The placement
of 11 of the most highly indebted enterprises in a restructuring program was postponed; but all
11 were subsequently put into the privatization process under the Structural Adjustment Credit.
While explicit subsidies to enterprises were eliminated, there still exist substantial implicit
subsidies to a few critical enterprises (such as Nairit). These mainly take the form of lack of
payment for energy supplies.
21.   The legal and regulatory framework for commercial banks has been considerably
strengthened and the supervisory roles and functions of the Central Bank of Armenia were more
clearly defined. Some 26 of the weakest banks were closed in 1994 and 1995. Building on the



-7-
Rehabilitation Credit, the SAC has put great emphasis on eliminating the remaining major
weaknesses in the financial sector.
22.   In parallel to the cuts in subsidies, there have been modest increases in wages of the
lowest paid employees in the budgetary sector, pensions, and transfers to children and the
unemployed. Nevertheless, because of limited fiscal resources, social assistance remains at very
low levels. Draft legislation on pension reform was submitted as a pre-Board condition for the
Rehabilitation Credit. This was followed by the adoption of a new pension law in December,
1995. The new law gradually increases the retirement age for men from 55 to 65 years, and for
women from 50 to 63 years. It also reduces the pension by 50 percent for those who continue to
work.
23.   The two main weaknesses in the reform program have been the energy sector and
privatization. Between 1994 and 1995, the collection of electricity payments improved from 62
percent to 70 percent for the budgetary sector and from 10 percent to 33 percent for households,
but at end-1995, electricity tariffs still did not cover operating and maintenance costs. As a
consequence, the power system continued to operate with a large financial deficit. To address
this weakness, the SAC (which followed the Rehabilitation Credit) put special emphasis on the
energy sector. Two key goals of this second operation were (a) that electricity tariffs cover all
operation and maintenance costs by January 1, 1997; and (b) that the collection rate reach at least
60 percent by July 1, 1996 and 75 percent by January 1, 1997. (By January 1, 1997 tariffs were
greater than operation and maintenance costs and the collection rate was in the 70-75 percent
range.)
24.   Privatization is well under-way although the targets set under the Rehabilitation Credit
were not met. By end-1995, 1812 of the 3000 targeted small enterprises were privatized; the
original target was reached early in 1996. Progress in medium and large privatization was
slower; only 355 medium and large enterprises had been offered for sale by the end of 1995,
against a target of 900. The latter figure was reached by September, 1996. The privatization
process was slowed down by the complexities of the approval process, and by the inexperience
of the staff involved. Over the last year and a half, however, the process was significantly
streamlined, and as staff accumulated experience, the process accelerated considerably. On the
positive side, Armenia's voucher-based privatization has worked extremely well in terms of
transparency and fairness. Very few enterprises that have been offered have failed to sell, and
the state has not retained minority holdings in any of the privatized enterprises. Insider
privatization has been minimal compared to what has happened elsewhere in the region (i.e.
Russia, Georgia). In fact, the Bank is using the Armenian experience as a model for voucher
auctions in other ECA countries (such as Albania).
25.   As the very good implementation record would suggest, there do not seem to have been
any significant unforeseen factors affecting the project. The relatively weak institutional
capacity of the Government of Armenia was known and partially compensated for by the
Institution Building Credit which preceded this Credit. The working relationship between the
Bank and the Government of Armenia appears to have been very good. There can be no doubt
about the good intentions of the Government with respect to major reforms. Even reforms



-8-
delayed for political or institutional capacity reasons were acted upon in a reasonable time span
or in the context of the Structural Adjustment Credit, while reforms which were deemed to be
inadequate (such as the bankruptcy law) have been revised.
D. Project Sustainability
26.   The reform program initiated by the Government of Armenia in 1992 took on a new
momentum in 1994 and remains clearly on track. The reforms supported by the follow-up SAC
complement those already achieved by early 1996. If this momentum is maintained, there will
have been few countries in history which have accomplished as much economic reform in a short
period as the Republic of Armenia. In essence, the combination of the transition, the war with
Azerbaijan, collapse of old trading patterns, and the blockade by Turkey and Azerbaijan created a
window of opportunity which the Government has taken full advantage of. While it could be
argued that there was little else that the Government of Armenia could do, history has shown that
governments often continue bad policies no matter how desperate the situation.
27.   Other than the resumption of hostilities with Azerbaijan, there are three significant
dangers to the sustainability of the reforms. First, if the rewards come too slowly, the long-term
significance of the reforms may not be appreciated. In particular, it is not clear how long the
population will continue to tolerate the present living standards without demanding change. In
the short-run, an increase in the supply and reliability of basic goods such as gas, electricity and
water are crucial. It is also essential that the Government fill in the social half of the reform
program, which will only be possible if the education, health and civil sector reforms initiated
under the SAC are successfully implemented and the tax effort is increased. The low levels of
pensions and civil service wages are also at levels which are not likely to be sustainable in the
long-run.
28.   The second danger is that access to export markets, crucial for the long-term economic
recovery of Armenia, will be limited. This could be due to protectionism from OECD countries,
the lack of growth in FSU countries, the resurgence of conflict in Georgia, or the continuation of
the blockade by Turkey. All of these factors could also have detrimental effects on Armenia's
creditworthiness, and deter foreign investment, which will be crucial for Armenia's development
in the medium-run.
E. World Bank Performance
29.   The Rehabilitation Credit was the fifth operation to be undertaken by the Bank in
Armenia since cooperation began in 1993. It followed the Institution Building Loan (US$12
million) in 1993 and three infrastructure rehabilitation credits in 1994 - the Earthquake
Reconstruction Credit (US$28 million), the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (US$43 million),



-9-
and the Power Maintenance Project (US$13.7 million). Bank involvement in Armenia was
restricted by the war with Azerbaijan, but the establishment of a cease-fire in 1994 and
subsequent movements towards a peaceful resolution of this conflict enabled the Bank to resume
the development of a full assistance program. The involvement of the Bank (and of the IMF) has
been critical to the success of the reform program to date, given the extremely weak fiscal and
current account situations that the Government faced. Both the financial and technical support
from the Bank have enabled it to build and maintain good relations with the Government.
30.   Mobilization of funds through the Consultative Group process has been modestly
successful. The United States has been by far the most important bilateral donor, followed by the
European Union and the Netherlands, with additional smaller support from Argentina, France,
Italy and Germany. EBRD and IFC are also active in Armenia, and are focusing their efforts on
creating support for private investment especially from the Armenia diaspora. In general, there
can be little doubt that without the efforts of the Bank and IMF, the amount of bilateral and
private funds provided to Armenia in support of the reform program would have been
substantially less, which would have imperiled the success of the program.
31.   Given the situation and weak institutional capacity in Armenia in 1994, the reform
program covered by the Rehabilitation Credit may have seemed overly ambitious. However, the
success described above shows clearly that it was feasible. The only major limitation was that
not enough attention was paid to the energy sector, even though this has traditionally been a
weak spot in the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe and the FSU. Also, not
enough focus was given early on to the incentives for enterprise restructuring - more thorough
efforts to draft an appropriate bankruptcy law, establish bankruptcy procedures and implement
pilot bankruptcy and liquidation exercises should have been pursued under the credit. Credit
must be given to Bank staff for the further reforms which followed the supervision mission in the
context of the negotiations of the Structural Adjustment Credit. These more ambitious, highly
detailed reforms have strengthened the original program considerably and should give a better
balance to the social side of the socio-economic equation.
32.  In sum, the performance of the Bank with respect to the Armenia Rehabilitation Credit
was highly satisfactory.
F. Borrower Performance
33.   Since 1988, Armenia has suffered from a devastating earthquake, the end of the former
Soviet Union and its traditional trading patterns, a debilitating war with Azerbaijan, and a
blockade from Turkey, its most important neighbor. The earthquake and war have left much of
its infrastructure damaged, and its inheritance from the FSU was particularly poor. The
Government has undertaken reform vigorously and with almost no backsliding and few
hesitations. As noted, most of its macroeconomic targets and implementation goals were
substantially met or surpassed. Once again, it is possible to point to the slow movements in the



-10-
energy sector and privatization, although the latter has largely been rectified and the former is
now being tackled very seriously. Where there have been deficiencies, the results of the mid-
term supervision mission and the negotiations on the SAC have demonstrated that the
Government is quick to seek new or better solutions.
34.   In sum, the performance of the Government of Armenia with respect to the Rehabilitation
Credit has been highly satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
35.   The outcome of the project is rated as highly satisfactory. Macroeconomic balances are
greatly improved, implementation was highly successful, and the extent of structural reform in
Armenia has been as much as anyone could have reasonably expected a short two years ago. It
could be argued that on one of its major objectives-the improvement of living standards-there
was not as much progress as could have been desired. However, the recovery of growth and the
deepening of the reform efforts supported by this credit and the follow-up operation, have laid a
solid foundation for a sustained recovery of real incomes over the near and medium term.
Against a background of widespread poverty, however, it will remain important to monitor living
standards closely. To prevent transitional poverty from becoming structural, it will also be
essential to ensure that the poor retain access to basic social services. To this end, the Bank
should carry out Poverty and Social Assessments on a regular basis.
H. Future Operations
36.   The follow-up to the Armenia Rehabilitation Credit has already begun in the form of
credits to support the continuation of reform (Structural Adjustment Credit), institution building
(Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit), infrastructure rehabilitation (Highways
Rehabilitation Credit), and poverty alleviation (Social Investment Fund). The Structural
Adjustment Credit, in particular, is built upon the outcome and success of this project. Its main
goals are to deepen the structural reforms already achieved as well as to help rectify some of the
critical problem areas, such as the energy, health and education sectors. Note that projects to
support reform in health and education are under preparation, as are follow-up operation in the
energy sector, a municipal development project (focusing on water supply and housing), and
projects to support agricultural reform and private sector development.



-11-
I. Key Lessons Learned
37.   Given the extensive measures undertaken and the closely related SAC, this Rehabilitation
Credit potentially has important lessons for both future Rehabilitation Credits and Structural
Adjustment Credits. The main lessons are the following:
(i)   Timeliness and a tabula rasa: The most important lesson to be learned from this
project is that the most desperate situations often afford the greatest possibility of change.
Upon independence in 1991 Armenia quickly began its reform effort, although the war
with Azerbaijan and related developments quickly constrained the Government. In 1994,
Armenia was suffering from hyperinflation and the one of the lowest per capita incomes
in the FSU countries. Following the implementation of a cease-fire in Spring 1994, and
with support from the World Bank and IMF, the stabilization and reform program was
implemented quickly and comprehensively. As coalitions of vested interests against
change were very weak, in a short period it was possible to introduce and implement a
package of reforms which was much stronger than in many other FSU countries. In
essence the lesson is that it is important to move quickly and boldly when such an
opportunity arises, before the formation of change-blocking coalitions.
(ii)   Government understanding, commitment and ownership: While it is
commonplace to emphasize the importance of recipient commitment and ownership, the
lesson from this project is that neither of these is likely to be satisfactory if the recipient
does not understand the project in more than a superficial way. The Government of
Armenia's commitment to the reform process and this project were the result of a deep
understanding of the reforms, including the inevitable short-run costs.
(iii)  Continuity in the project team: Since Independence in September 1991, the
Armenian Government has been drawn primarily from the Armenian National
Movement. This political continuity allowed key Government policy makers to
accumulate significant post-Independence experience, with contributed greatly to the
smoothness and success of the reforms. Continuity in the Bank country team was also
important, as it helped cement a solid dialogue with the Armenian authorities, encouraged
trust, and preserved institutional knowledge on the Bank side. Also important on the
Bank side was the close degree of coordination between the policy dialogue conducted
under the framework of the Rehabilitation Credit, and ongoing project and economic
work in the sectors (especially energy), as well as extensive coordination with the IMF.
(iv)  Institutional support as a necessary condition: Adequate institutional support
was a necessary condition for the success of the project. The was supplied in the project
itself and through the Institution Building Credit. Failure to meet the privatization targets
was largely due to the fact that they were unrealistic given the institutional capacity.
Cooperation with the IMF was also important in building institutional capacity,
particularly in the areas of fiscal and monetary policies.



-12-
(v)   The importance of the legal system and judiciary process: Most of the delays
which took place in the project, including privatization, were largely due to difficulties in
designing and implementing a consistent set of laws and procedures. Given the
involvement of Parliament (or a similar institution) in such a process, either less
ambitious time tables or more active participation of members of Parliament from the
beginning is required.
(vi)   The importance of interdependency: Another lesson is the need to recognize
the interdependency of social and economic policies. Although this has been rectified in
the Structural Adjustment Credit, insufficient attention was placed on social issues in the
Rehabilitation Credit, despite the widespread poverty, large declines in life expectancy,
and deterioration of the education system. There is wide agreement that the future of
Armenia depends on its human resources, given its lack of natural resources.
Accordingly, the success of any economic reform program will depend greatly on social
reform and rehabilitation.
(vii) The energy sector: Finally, in all FSU and Eastern and Central European
countries, it is particularly important to pay strong and early attention to the energy
sector. Past energy pricing had little to do with actual costs, and tariffs had to be raised
enormously just to approach operation and maintenance costs. Initially collection rates
were very low - in large part because households were unwilling to pay for unmeasured,
unreliable and low-quality electricity services. The combination of increased residential
metering, and improved quality and reliability of electricity supply have succeeded in
greatly augmenting households' willingness to pay. The result has been vastly increased
payment collections from the population - which in mid- 1996 had reached 60%, up from
an average of 30% in 1995 and from 10-15% in 1994. Higher tariffs and collections
have, in turn, improved the financial situation of the energy sector, which allowed for
better operation and maintenance of the system and hence improved quality and
reliability. The lesson is that reforms in the energy sector have to be tackled
comprehensively, and that improved financial discipline and quality of the system go
hand in hand.



-13-
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Ng1igikkNot applicabk
Macro Policies                                        00
Sector Policies                                      El                E                 El
Financial Objectives                                 I]                E                 []
Institutional Development             ]             [                  0                 0
Physical Objectives                  EEl                               E 0
Poverty Reduction                   []              [                                   [
Gender Issues                        al              E]               [ 0X
Other Social Objectives              a]                                El 00
Environmental Objectives                             El                El               [
Public Sector Management               l               l              El                 0
Private Sector Development           [l                               E                  El
Other (specify)                      El              El               [                  E
B. Project Sustainability             Like1Y                    Unlikely                   Uncrtain
ElCEl
Continued



-14-
Higl
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(V)                      ($)                        (/)
Identification                       I2I                       a                          a
Preparation Assistance                                        i                          Iii
Appraisal                           M71
Supervision                         EI                                                   L
Hiehly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)               ~~~~~(/)                   (v')
Preparation                         F3                         a                          a
Implementation                                                Li                         LI
Covenant Compliance                 F71
Operation (if applicable)           E                         i                           D
Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactorv
(F)             (7)              (7)                (7)
[S~ L                         LI                LI



-15-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose          Year of approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1. Institution Building Loan  Technical Assistance       FY93        Under
implementation
2. Earthquake Reconstruction   Specific Investment       FY94        Under
Credit                                                               implementation
3. Power Maintenance Credit   Specific Investment        FY95        Under
implementation
4. Irrigation Rehabilitation  Specific Investment        FY95        Under
Credit                                                               implementation
Following Operations
1. Highways Rehabilitation  Specific Investment          FY96        Under
Credit                                                               implementation
2. Social Investment Fund   Specific Investment          FY96        Under
Credit                                                               implementation
3. Structural Adjustment    Balance of Payments          FY96        Under
Credit                      Assistance                                implementation
4. Structural Adjustment    Balance of Payments          FY96        Under
Technical Assistance Credit    Assistance                            implementation



-16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       Date Planned       Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      10/94                 10/94
Preparation                                       -                     -
Appraisal                                        1/95                 1/95
Negotiations                                     1/95                 1/95
Letter of Development Policy                     2/95                 2/95
(if applicable)
Board Presentation                              2/95                  2/95
Signing                                         3/95                  3/95
Effectiveness                                    3/95                 3/95
First Tranche Release                           N/A                   N/A
(if applicable)
Midterm Review                                  N/A                   N/A
(if applicable)
Second (and third) Tranche Release              N/A                   N/A
(if applicable)
Project Completion                              6/96                  6/96
Loan Closing                                    6/96                  6/96



-17-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY95               FY96
Appraisal estimate             50.0                10.0
Actual                         63.38                 .94
Actual as % of estimate       127.0%                9.4%
Date of final disbursement: August 28, 1995



-18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Poliy Commitments                              Status of Actions
A. Achieving Macroeconomic Stability
To create a stable macroeconomic environment    All quantitative criteria agreed upon with the IMF
conducive to economic growth.                were met.
To reduce monthly inflation to 1 % by the end of   Annual inflation fell from 1885% in 1994 to 26%
1995.                                       in 1995. In the first six months of 1996, inflation
was only 5.6%.
To strengthen the gross reserve position of the  Gross reserves were 1.5 months of imports in
CBA to reach 1.6 months of imports by the end of  1995 and 2.3 months of imports in 1996.
1995.
To remove existing distortions affecting interest   The nominal exchange rate of the dram stabilized
rates and foreign exchange rates.            and the real exchange rate appreciated 90% in
1995. Interest rates are highly positive.
To reduce the fiscal deficit in 1995 to 12% of  The fiscal deficit fell from 16.4% of GDP in 1994
GDP on a commitments basis by reducing tax  to 8.7% of GDP in 1995.
exemptions and subsidies and increasing excise
rates and collection efforts.
B. Promoting the Development of Markets and Increasing Their Efficiency
(i) Price Liberalization
To liberalize all prices, except for a few natural    The only remaining consumer subsidies are
monopolies.                                  district heating and hot water. Prices of
electricity, drinking water, irrigation, urban
transport, telephone services, garbage removal,
sewerage and gas remain administered.
Regulated prices are to be set so as to fully  All administered prices are adjusted on a regular
recover the cost of providing the good.      basis to maintain their real value. By January 1,
1997 the electricity tariff was above operation and
maintenance costs.
Due to collection problems an implicit subsidy
continues to many consumers for electricity and
gas.



-19-
Policy Commitments                             Status of Actions
(ii) Reform of the External Regime
To create a policy environment that does not  Most regulatory obstacles to exports were
discriminate against exporters and does not inhibit removed and the import tariff is low and uniform.
competition from imports.                    The surrender requirement of 30% of foreign
exchange earnings by exporters was eliminated in
April 1995.
Clearing trade and the foreign exchange surrender  Clearing trade was significantly reduced in 1995,
requirement are to be abolished.             and eliminated in 1996. While there is still barter
trade with Turkmenistan, it is voluntary.
(iii) Financial Sector Reform
To strengthen the capacity of the banking system    Legal and regulatory arrangements for banks and
to mobilize financial savings and allocate credit to  the supervisory role of the CBA were
efficient users.                             strengthened. Minimum statutory capital for
banks was increased. All refinance credit is
allocated by auctions. About 26 of the weakest
banks were closed. Markets play an increasing
role in credit allocation and the determination of
interest rates, which are highly positive in real
terms.
The Savings Bank is still not in compliance with
capital adequacy and will be subject to
restructuring.
To introduce financial statements for commercial  This will be completed as part of the follow-up
banks that are consistent with international  SAC.
standards.



-20-
Policy Commitments                           Status of Actions
(iv) Regulatory Framework for Private Sector
Development
To submit a new land code to Parliament by April A real property code was adopted by Parliament.
1, 1995.
To develop the system for land registration and    Will be completed under the Agriculture Reform
titling.                                   Support Project currently under preparation.
To submit to Parliament a revised joint-stock  The company, collateral and bankruptcy laws
company law, a law on collateral, a bankruptcy    have been adopted by Parliament. The anti-
law and an anti-monopoly law.              monopoly law was prepared but is under review.
To offer for competitive tender all state purchases  State procurement is conducted on a competitive
greater than US$ 50,000 as of February 1, 1995.   basis.
C. Hardening Enterprise Budget Constraints
(i) Privatization
To accelerate the transfer of ownership of  The basic legal and institutional framework for
productive assets from the state to private owners. privatization is largely established. Land
privatization and some small scale privatization
took place in 1991/2. A massive privatization
public relations campaign was launched in 1995.
To privatize 1000 small enterprises by July 1,  1812 small scale enterprises were privatized.
1995, 3000 small enterprises by January 1, 1996,  (The goal of 3000 was reached in the first half of
and all remaining small enterprises by mid-1996.  1996.)
To offer for sale 900 medium and large     355 medium and large scale enterprises were
enterprises by January 1, 1996.            offered for sale. (The goal of 900 was reached by
September 1996.)
To adopt auction regulations for the privatization   This was completed in 1995.
of medium and large scale enterprises.



-21-
---Policy Commitments               -Status of Actions
(ii) Financial Discipline and Restructuring
To tighten financial discipline in enterprises that   Budget subsidies to enterprises were mostly
have not yet been privatized and to facilitate  eliminated, monetary policy was tightened, and
privatization or liquidation of loss-makers.  credit allocation was increasingly market-based.
Eleven highly indebted enterprises are to be  This was delayed and completed as part of the
placed in an enterprise restructuring program,  SAC. All 11 enterprises have been liquidated or
designed to operate as a pilot bankruptcy    are in the process of being offered for sale.
program.
A task force will be established to coordinate an    The task force and committee were set up.
arrears-clearing exercise, and a committee will be
formed to monitor the arrears of the 50 largest
enterprises.
D. Ensuring a Minimum Level of Social Protection for the Poorest
To ensure the protection of the most vulnerable   Increases in the administered prices of bread and
groups in the adjustment process and beyond. To  electricity necessitated increased benefits and aid
rely on targeting compensation consistent with    to the most vulnerable groups. Child allowances
fiscal constraints through existing systems of cash  were increased; bread compensation was provided
transfers to the most needy.                to those receiving unemployment benefits; free
provision of essential foodstuffs was provided to
those officially registered as unemployed but not
in receipt of unemployment benefits; lower-paid
budgetary sphere employees and pensioners were
compensated for the increased cost of bread and
electricity. Legislation was submitted to
Parliament to allow cash payments in
compensation for administered price increases to
unemployed not in receipt of unemployment
benefits.
To undertake a pilot household survey to provide   The survey and the analysis were undertaken in
a sound basis for targeting social benefits.  1994 and 1995.
To introduce a pension reform and submit draft    Although there was some delay, the new pension
legislation by February 1, 1995.             law was submitted to Parliament at end- 1995. It
provides for a phased increase in the retirement
age, delinking of pensions from the minimum
wage, and a flatter pension structure.



-22-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated       Actual
I. Key operating indicators in SAR
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)                 - NOT APPLICABLE -
III. Modified indicators for future operation (if applicable)



-23-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at        Status  Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
- NOT APPLICABLE -



-24-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate              Appraisal/latest estimates
(US$ million)                      (US$ million)
Item                Local   Foreign    Total            Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                      costs    costs
1. Import            0.0      69.0     69.0              0.0      69.0      69.0
Total     0.0      69.0      69.0             0.0      69.0      69.0



-25-
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Appraisal/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Source                          Local Foreig   Total        Local Foreign   Total
n
costs  costs                costs   costs
1. IBRD/IDA                        0.0  60.0    60.0           0.0  64.3    64.3
2. Cofinancing institutions *      0.0   9.0      9.0           0.0   9.0      9.0
3. Other external sources          0.0   0.0      0.0           0.0   0.0      0.0
4. Domestic contribution           0.0   0.0      0.0           0.0   0.0      0.0
Total    0.0  69.0    69.0            0.0  73.3    73.3
* NLG 8M - Dutch Grant (US$ equivalent 5.0)
NLG SM - Dutch Grants (US$ equivalent 3.0); US$1 M - Argentinean Grant



-26-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- NOT APPLICABLE -



-27-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Agreement  Section    Covenant   Statu   Fulfillment   Fulfillment         Description of     Comments
Type        s        Date         Date            Covenant
CA        3.01(a)       9          C        --                      Consultation and
exchange of views
CA        3.01(b)       9          C        --                      Progress reports
CA        3.02          3          C        ---           ---       Procurement
CA        3.03(a)       I          C        ---           ---       Maintain records and
accounts
CA        3.03(b)       I          C        --                      Audit and furnish
records and accounts
LA        3.07(a)       I          C        ---           ---       Maintain records and
accounts
Covenant type:                                                         Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                 8 = Indigenous people              C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue   9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries       10 = Project implementation not    CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds  covered by categories 1-9   NC  not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding             11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the       budgetary or other resource allocation
project or executing agency         12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Enviromnental covenants         regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



-28-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title     Describe and comment on lack of compliance
- NOT APPLICABLE -



-29-
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
($ '000)
Planned             Revised             Actual
State of Project Cycle  Weeks     US$      Weeks      US$      Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal    10.0  41.6      30.6     103.7      30.8     139.7
Appraisal                0.0       0.0       0.6       0.7       0.6       0.9
Negotiations through     0.0       0.0      10.5      23.6      10.5      23.7
Board approval
Supervision             20.0      90.1      18.6     148.8      20.9     135.2
Completion              10.0      30.6       4.4       9.0       4.4       9.0



-30-
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2
Stage of project    Month/   No. of    Days       Specialized     Implement.   Development       Type of
year    persons  in field    staff skills      status      objectives     problems 3
Preparation              06/94      3        15           CE
Preparation              11/94      7        16      CE, ERS, ERS,
FSS, HRS,
PSDS, TE
Negotiations             01/95      8         -       CC, CE, CO,
DO, ERS, HRS,
LC, PSDS
Board approval           03/95      -         -
Signing                  03/95      -         -
Effective                03/95      -         -
Supervision 1            05/95      1        13           CE               I             I
Supervision 2            07/95      6        12       CE, CO, EE,          2             2
ERS, PSRS, TE
Completion               06/96      -
- Specialized staff skills      2 _ Performance ratings           3 - Types of problems
CC = Cofinancing Coordinator     I = Highly Satisfactory           F = Financial
CE = Country Economist           2 = Satisfactory                  M = Managerial
CO = Country Officer                                               T = Technical
DO = Disbursement Officer
EE = Energy Economist
ERS = Enterprise Reform Specialist
FSS = Financial Sector Specialist
HRS = Human Resources Specialist
LC = Legal Counsel
PSDS = Private Sector Dev. Specialist
PSRS = Public Service Reform Specialist
TE = Trade Economist



-31-
Appendix A
Implementation Completion Report
(Credit No. 26830)
Republic of Armenia
Appendices
Appendix A - Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
1.    The Rehabilitation Credit was approved in February 1995 to help Armenia embark on a
path of structural reform. The Rehabilitation Credit promoted the development of competitive
markets and of the private sector through privatization, liberalization and regulatory reform,
enhanced financial discipline for enterprises and banks, and improved the targeting of the social
safety net to the most needy.
2.    The Government was very successful in implementing the measures contained in the
Letter of Development Policy, specifically in the following areas:
3.    Price Liberalization - subsidies on bread, municipal and garbage removal and the cross-
subsidies on water and sewerage were eliminated. The subsidies on district heating and hot
water (the only remaining consumer subsidies) remain under review. In the case of district
heating, the issue of provision of targeted heating subsidies to vulnerable groups was resolved as
part of the overall reform of social assistance.
4.    Energy Sector Pricing and Payments - Average electricity tariffs increased by 25
percent in real terms during 1995 although this was not sufficient to cover operational and
maintenance costs. Enforcement of payments for electricity consumption improved significantly.
A mechanism for collective payment by the residents of apartment buildings and villages was
initiated on a pilot basis.
5.    Reform of the External Trade and Payments Regime - The arrangement with
Turkmenistan for natural gas imports remained in force; the participation by enterprises in the
interstate barter arrangements became voluntary.
6.    Private Enterprise Development - A property code which clarifies the legal framework
for private property sales was adopted and a revised joint-stock company law was submitted to
Parliament. In order to provide increased security for contracts, a law on collateral was adopted
by Parliament in June 1995; to facilitate closure, a bankruptcy law was adopted by Parliament at
the same time. An anti-monopoly law was prepared, but not adopted.
7.    Privatization - Privatization of small-scale enterprises progressed significantly in 1995.
As of January 1, 1996 the Government had privatized over 1800 small enterprises (including 300



-32-
Appendix A
small enterprises privatized in 1991-1992). Privatization of medium- to large-scale enterprises
got started. As of January 1, 1996, 355 medium- to large enterprises had been privatized. The
ambitious end-1995 target of 900 enterprises privatized was not achieved but the streamlining of
procedures in early 1996 will allow the process to move faster in the future.
8.    Financial discipline - Eleven highly indebted enterprise were placed in an enterprise
restructuring program. This was designed to operate as a pilot bankruptcy program in which the
modalities of debtor reorganization and liquidation, as well as the willingness of the Government
to see bankruptcy procedures initiated for state owned enterprises would be demonstrated. The
program was subsequently eliminated, and the 11 enterprises were placed directly into the
privatization program.
9.    Financial Sector - Progress continued in 1995 in strengthening the legal and regulatory
arrangements for banks and in defining the supervisory role and functions of the CBA. Measures
taken include: introduction of guidelines for aggregate limits on large exposures, for lending to
shareholders, and for foreign exchange exposure.
10.   Social Assistance - Compensation for the increases in the prices of bread and electricity
(taken place as generalized subsidies were eliminated) was effected to reflect categories of the
most needy: children, the unemployed, and pensioners dependent on administered incomes. The
Government increased child allowances, unemployment benefit, pensions and wages to lower-
paid employees in the budgetary sphere by an amount calculated to reflect the incremental cost of
a lifeline consumption of bread and electricity.
11.   Labor Market - Housing privatization acceleration stimulated labor mobility including
the privatization of about 60% of the formerly state-owned housing stock, adoption of a
Government Decision on Condominiums in May 1995, and the increasing of the rents in state-
owned housing at end 1995.



MAP SECTION



T



4i                             T. Sh.l.-es/    45o gfirSehly Vtoyye                                                                              47tt-                                      IBRD34
GEORGIA                          ToD.s.-si       4, To So                                                               46                          ;R 494B R
ro Bo         T,gdoo.iko                                                                                                 GEORGIA
ToAkhoIkeE, ro\g-k
_ t~~~~~~~~~~~~IoGn verdig-V  J,<  >_ 
~ osAp [
k4'v                GUk                ovGknason
IIjboi09 mcIydt         (,   .< ,t W          ycn/              fJ\<~;T             .TK                                                                 MINGECHAURSKOYE                                            41'
>vH  }(4buirR9s  X        4         9    ->&~~~~Aton  IdzheyoQng       ozckh T                                                _oO4                RERVOIR
''\ 9 Xt1.^  X )\                                           W, '' SS                                                       ~<
X=            GU               >'ROVAKAN  -X>                       _ Glkn                    /;~
'- ' Dil zohn     Gelkena
TO Koos                               Kondokhs  / h
Aotik        Ap~~~~Ora          Tsovogyok                                  she
T. K,        Mooi/                                                                K'rasooseC'sk
To K  yh\crct2.      v       d     <       >_~~~~'-~   -.sevony k>no>                    To Kedobek 
9  Xq  <  / 4                     i    Tsek~TMhkodzor g'-~' "-s}
10                    7' Nn         No
OtSrten( ~~~~~     Byora    N\.S.k.
As arok,   e                                 K   E                               _                                      A R M  E N I A
Mets/.  <)  To      441,-kT M ,SECONDAR Dams
\vOr en                                                 TOWNS / VILLAGES
__                                                                           7To KeBodoho                   (D  MAIN CITIES
40'            Ve,in Artas   ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~* NATIONAL CAPITAL
40'                                                                        ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arahtgjiuid     AZERBAIJAN                            RIVERS
PRIMARY ROADS                                                      40-
To Istis                        -     SECONDARY ROADS
0TUR                           -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ATS hbekos '-- 5   8            To Pkh     ush \
) t ', ~~~~~To Sh.ktkt ,-/ isr,7-si \,
AZERBAIJAN  9                              Tt '
oh_ Koa{ NJ KhoNAh,,kh-o
ISLAMIC                                                 T. Progs                                    Too
39'                                                  REPUBLI
Siskert                            MILES 0      1         2        2         4
Th*vs Wo,I0 00,0 Grrtor,                                                                                                                           N' )            KILOMETERS O    10   20   30   40   SO   60   70
To Odub.d        rgi               To Zongeon
44-  45JN47'                                      48'
JANUARY 1994



I






IMAGING
Report No.:           16337
Type:      ICR



