Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-651 9-AM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
O  THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 41.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FEBRUARY 2, 1995
M ICROGRAPH I CS
Report No: P-    6519 AM
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dram
EXCHANGE RATE
US$1.0 = 406 Dram
(as of January 23, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CBA                      -      Central Bank of Armenia
CIS                      -      Commonwealth of Independent States
CG                       -      Consultative Group
ESW                      -      Economic and sector work
EU                       -      European Union
EU TACIS                 -      EU Technical Assistance to the CIS
FSU                      -      Former Soviet Union
GDP                             Gross Domestic Product
GNP                      -      Gross National Product
IBL                      -      Institution Building Loan
LDP                      -      Letter of Development Policy
NMP                      -      Net Material Product
O&M                      -      Operations & Maintenance
SIF                      -      Soc.ial Investment Fund
STF                      -      Svst.emic Transformation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                  Republic of Armenia
Amount:                     SDR 41.5 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Payable over 35 years, including 10 years of grace, on standard IDA
terms
Objectives and Description:   The objectives of the proposed credit are: (i) to support the
Government's reform program to stabilize the economy and create the
conditions for a resumption of growth and an improvement in living
standards; (ii) to provide foreign exchange for the purchase of critical
imports, particularly for the private sector; (iii) to provide budgetary
support, especially for the strengthening of the social safety net for the
most vulnerable groups; and (iv) to provide a framework for urgently-
needed financial assistance from other donors.
The program includes policies that: (a) promote the development of
competitive markets and of the private sector, through privatization,
liberalization and regulatory reform; (b) result in improved financial
discipline for enterpriP-s and banks; and (c) improve the targeting of
the social safety net t. the most needy.
Poverty categorv:          Poverty-focused. The proposed credit would support improvements in
the targeting of social benefits to the poorest groups: the elderly,
children, the low-paid, and the unemployed. In the near tern,
benefits provided by the state to those groups will be increased; in the
mediun term, the pension system will be restructured to provide
higher benefits to those without alternative means of support.
Benefits:                  The structural reform program supported by the proposed credit will,
in conjunction with macroeconomic stabilization supported by the
IMF, foster the development of a competitive market economy, led by
the private sector. This will promote the efficient allocation of
resources to underpin economic growth and a reduction of poverty.
The credit will provide critical import support to allow economic
recovery and to stem the decline in living standards, particularly of
the poorest, and will do so through market mechanisms. The credit
should serve to catalyze similar financing from other donors.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Risks:                     There is a risk of slippage in both stabilization and structural reform
in the face of sociopolitical opposition if economic recovery does not
proceed fast enough to satisfy rising expectations (parliamentary
elections are to be held in May 1995). However, this will be
mitigated by improved targeting of the social safety net and continued
humanitarian assistance from donors and from the Armenian diaspora.
The implementation of the reform program could be undermined by
institutional weaknesses, although the provision of technical assistance
through the Institution Building Loan and support from other donors
will help to offset this risk. There is a significant risk of the donor
conummunity providing insufficient balance of payments financing in
support of stabilization and structural reform, which would entail an
unsustainable reduction in living standards. However, the
Consultative Group process is designed to mitigate this risk. An
additional risk is that aggregate demand will recover only slowly in
Armenia's FSU markets, and that access to non-traditional export
markets will be undermined by protectionism. A further risk is the
resumption of hostilities over Nagorno-Karabakh, and the consequent
continuation of Armenia's economic isolation. However, the current
peace negotiations appear to be moving in a positive direction and
economic recovery should increase popular support for peace.
Estimated
Disbursement:              The proceeds of the proposed credit would be released upon
effectiveness in one tranche. Out of the proposed credit, SDR 12.45
million (or 30 percent of the total credit) will be disbursed against
Armenia's actual imports (excluding items covered by the negative
list) since October 31, 1994, i.e., four months prior to the expected
date of effectiveness. This retroactive financing is justified by the up-
front action already taken by the Government on many important
elements of the reform program.
This report is based on missions which visited Armenia between June and October 1994, comprising
Messrs./Mmes. Jonathan Walters (country economist, mission leader), Jeanine Braithwaite (social
sectors), Lily Chu (banking), Alan Gelb (enterprise/financial linkages), Victor Leonov (trade), Cyril
Muller (trade), David Phillips (private sector development), Melinda Roth Alexandrowicz (enterprise
reform), Onno Ruhl (economic management), and Randi Ryterman (enterpriselfinancial linkages).
Una Raymond provided secretarial support and Ludmilla Talmatskaya provided translation services.
Documents were reviewed by Martha de Melo and Desmond McCarthy. Basil Kavalsky and Wafik
Grais are, respectively, the Director of the Country Department, and Division Chief of the Country
Operations Division, responsible for Armenia in the Europe and Central Asia region.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE                          1
A.   Background ......................................   1
Progress towards regional stability ..............             2
Monetary and fiscal expansion is beginning to be controlled  ... .  2
Output decline appears to be levelling off  ........... .      3
C.   Challenges and Prospects for the Future .....................  4
Overcoming resource misallocation and the terms of trade shock  .  4
Growth prospects ..............................  4
External Financing, Debt and Creditworthiness ..........       6
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND
STRUCTURAL REFORMS  ......            ................. .                  7
A.   Achieving Macroeconomic Stability  ............ .                     7
B.   Promoting the Development of Markets and Increasing their Efficiency . .  8
Price Liberalization                 ..                        8
Reform of the external regime    ..                            8
Financial sector reform                ..                     9
The regulatory framework for private sector development ...... 10
C.   Hardening Enterprise Budget Constraints ....................  12
Privatization   ............... ..................  12
Financial Discipline and Restructuring  .......   .......... 14
D.   Ensuring a Minimtun Level of Social Protection for the Poorest .....   15
PART m. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY   ..18
A. Background and Objectives .18
B.  Bank/IDA Assistance to Date ..... 18
C.   The Lending Program  ................................   19
D.   Coordination of External Assistance, MIGA and IFC Activities .22
PART IV. THE PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT .23
A.   Program Implementation and Credit Conditions .......       ......... 23
Hardening Budget Constraints  .........       ............. 23
Promoting Competitive Markets .........        ............ 24
Ensuring the Provision of an Adequate Social Safety Net ...... 24
B.    The Proposed Project    ............... .................  24
Credit amount and borrower  ........ ..       ............. 24



2
Project management .............................   25
Procurement .................................. 25
Eligible expenditures  ............................  26
Disbursement   .           ...............................   26
Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing  ..................  26
Closing date .................................. 26
Environmental category   ..........................  27
C.  Benefits and Risks ................................... 27
Benefits ..................................... 27
Risks ...................................... 27
PART V. RECOMNENDATION . ............................... 27
Schedule A               Timetable of Key Processing Events ....                  ......  ........   28
Annex 1                  Key Economic Indicators   .........................   29
Annex 2                   Letter of Development Policy  .......................   33
Annex 3    Policy Matrix .46



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Republic of Armenia for SDR 41.5 million (the equivalent of US$ 60 million) to provide
support for the Government's economic reform program. The credit would be on standard IDA
terms, with a maturity of 35 years including a grace period of 10 years. Cofinancing to the
amount of 5 million guilders from the Government of the Netherlands has been identified for
the proposed credit. Further co-financing or parallel financing for quick-disbursing balance of
payments assistance is being sought; at the Consultative Group Meeting held on November 22,
1994, pledges were made equal to two-thirds of Armenia's estimated financing needs for 1995.
Financing for technical assistance to support a number of measures in the Govermnent's reform
program will be provided by the Bank's Institution Building Loan or by other donors.
2.    Armenia became a member of IBRD in September 1992, and became eligible for IDA
terms in August 1993. The country is in the process of joining IFC and is considering
membership of MIGA.
PART I. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS FOR THE FUTURE
A.   Background
3.    Armeriia is a small, landlocked country with a land area of 29,800 square kilometers, and
a population of 3.65 million. Turkey lies to the west, Georgia to the north, Iran to the south,
and Azerbaijan to the east. GNP per capita was estimated at US$ 660 in 1993.' With few
natural resources and stony land, the Armenians have survived through strong traditions of
education and of entrepreneurship. Armenia formally declared independence on September 23,
1991. The President, Levon Ter-Petrossian, was elected to a five year term in October 1991
with 80 percent of the popular vote, and the Parliament of 260 members was elected in May
1990, also with a five year term.
4.    Armenia's development into a modem economy is constrained by the legacy of Soviet
central planning. It has inherited a structure of production and trade that is out of line with its
comparative advantage to a considerable extent. Armenia's product composition yielded a high
degree of dependence on trade with other republics, with exports and imports representing over
50 percent of GDP during the 1980s. Industry constituted about 60 percent of NMP. Under
the Soviet regime, Armenia exported large volumes of light industrial goods (40 percent of total
exports in 1991), but also substantial heavy industrial products as well as foodstuffs and semi-
I Atlas methodology; estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more
than the usual range of uncertainty and should be regarded as preliminary.



2
finished goods, mainly for the FSU mar"et. In the absence of raw materials and primary
processing faczlities, Armenia had to rely heavily on imports of semi-finished goods as critical
inputs into domestic industry (25 percent of imports in 1991) and the country was a net importer
of food. Armenia also had a disproportionate share of the Soviet military-industrial complex,
supplying high technology lasers and electronics.
B.   Recent Economic and Political Developments
5.    Progress towards regional stability. Like other countries in the region, Armenia is still
experiencing severe economic difficulties arising from the breakdown of the trade, payments and
financial system of the former Soviet Union (and the consequent severe terms of trade shock).
In addition, the conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh has led to a trade and transport blockade by
Azerbaijan (traditionally Armenia's principal transit route for oil, gas and other products) and
the closure of the Turkish border. The effects of this have been compounded by civil strife in
Georgia. From the winter of 1991/2 on, Armenia's effective isolation highly constrained
economic activity.
6.    However, there have been several recent positive developments in Annenia's relations
with its neighbors. Of greatest importance is the progress towards peace in the 6-year-old
Karabalh conflict: on July 27, 1994, Azerbaijan, Karabakh, and Armenia signed an agreement
in Moscow formalizing the ceasefire (which has held since May 1994) and providing for the
inmediate commencement of negotiations of a comprehensive peace agreement.  This
development offers a real prospect of a lifting of the blockade in the near future.2 In addition,
mpidly-growing trade with Iran, which is now second in importance only to that with Russia,
and increasing stability in Georgia have significantly eased Armenia's isolation (the latter is of
particular importance for improved transit of energy supplies).
7.    Monetary and fiscal expansion is beginning to be controlled. Until late 1993, Armenia's
continued membership of the ruble area, in which most members were conducting highly
expansionary financial policy, severely limited its capacity to reduce inflation, thereby
undermining monetary and fiscal discipline. In addition, during 1993 the old ruble area was
disintegrating without any clear prospect for Armenia to join a new ruble area or to receive
adequate external financing; consequently, the Armenian Government substantially loosened
financial policies in order to permit the stockpiling of imported inputs. This was effected largely
through massive net lending to enterprises (equivalent to 17.6 nercent of GDP) from the
Government budget; the budget deficit rose to 56 percent of GDP (from 27 percent in 1992),
almost 70 percent of which was financed by the central bank.
2  The December 1994 meeting in Budapest of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe (O.S.C.E.) decided to send a multilateral peacekeeping force to Nagomo-Karabakh and to
enhance the coordination between the O.S.C.E. and Russia on the Nagomo-Karabalk issue.



3
8.    In late 1993, 'Armenia was flooded with pre-1993 rubles which were being withdrawn
from circulation elsewhere in the FSU, which fuelled inflation even further as currency
substitution intensified. On November 22, 1993, a national currency, the dram, was introduced
against a background of severe financial imbalance and negligible foreign exchange reserves.
In the last two months of 1993, consumer prices rose by 900 percent (compared to a monthly
average of 26 percent in the first 10 months of the year).
9.    However, faced with rampant inflation, and enjoying monetary independence for the first
time, the authorities began to tighten financial policies. Beginning in the second quarter of
1994, public expenditures were linited to priority itcms (which included a drastic reduction in
net lending and subsidies to enterprises), and revenue collection was enhanced; consequently,
monetary growth declined and the central bank refinance rate became highly positive in real
terms. Inflation declined from an average of 46 percent per month in the first quarter of 1994
to less than 3 percent per month in the third quarter.3 Monetary tightness has also been reflected
in the stability of the nominal exchange rate since May and the sharp appreciation of the dram
in real terms over the same period.
10.   Output decline aWvears to be levelling off. Armenia has experienced an enormous decline
in output since the break-up of the Soviet Union. GDP fell by 52 percent in 1992 (to about one
third of its 1989 level), and a further 15 percent in 1993. Even allowing for non-recorded
growth in the infonnal sector, it is clear that the effects of the blockade have severely
compounded the FSU-wide output collapse. The massive increase in the costs of transport and
energy consequent on the blockade have induced a corresponding shift in the structure of
production; food production for domestic consumption and light industrial exports with low
energy and transport costs, such as jewelry, have grown at the expense of bulky export goods,
such as machinery.
11.   In the first half of 1994, real GDP is estimated by the Government to have grown by 2-3
percent (compared to the same period in 1993); the increase probably reflects the development
of alternative trade routes in the face of the blockade and possibly the effects of the previous net
lending to enterprises. The sustainability of this increase is therefore in question as the drastic
reduction in transfers to enterprises takes full effect.
12.   Poverty is widespread. Living standards have plummeted in Annenia in recent years and
a substantial proportion of the population are living in poverty (a household survey I1OW
underway and a Poverty Assessment for which preparatory work has commenced will yield more
precise data). Average real wages at the end of 1993 had fallen to about 6 percent of their level
two years earlier. In June, 1994, the average wage in the state sector stood at about US$ 2 a
month (equivalent, for example, to one kilo of meat) and US$ 4-5 economy-wide; the average
3  Prices rose again in the fourth quarter of 1994 (by 11 percent in October, 14 percent in
November, and an estimated 60 percent in December), in large part as a result of substantial increases
in administered prices (most significantly the price of bread).



4
monthly pension was about US$ 1. Registered unemployment reached almost 7 percent of the
labor force in May 1994, and an estimnated 12 percent were on short-time working or forced
leave. Severe energy shortages have sharply reduced the availability of electricity and heating
to households, particularly in winter. The bulk of the population appears to be living on
remittances from the diaspora, humanitarian aid, and income from informal sector activity (much
of it in subsistence agriculture).
C.   Challenges and Prospects for the Future
13.   Overcoming resource misallocation and the terms of trade shock. Like many other FSU
states, Armenia faces the consequences of a permanent adverse terms of trade shock following
the breakup of the command economy of the Soviet Union. Its economy does so burdened by
substantial resource misallocation, compounded by recent extreme macroeconomic instability,
an economic blockade and severe financial constraints.  The authorities recognize that a
comprehensive program of stabili7ation and structural reforms is the only alternative to continued
stagnation and dire poverty.
14.   The Govenmment's program  underway since early 1994 contains a number of
interdependent elements.  First, a stable environment is required so that producers and
consumers can make sound decisions without fear of major macroeconomic disruptions.
Stabilization will rest upon continued tight fiscal and monetary policies, and wage restraint.
Second, competition in markets is essential to an efficient allocation of resources. The
promotion of open markets will require a variety of policies: the further liberalization of prices
(in particular, in the energy sector) as well as of the foreign exchange and trade regime; and the
elimination of the state's direct role in external trade through interstate barter. The removal of
remaining undue restrictions on the emerging private sector will also be necessary to encourage
new private activity and to integrate the substantial informal sector into the formal economy.
15.   Third, the continued hardening of enterprise budget constraints will encourage enterprises
to respond to the new market forces. This shift in behavior will be induced through accelerated
privatization and improved enforceability of creditor rights (including the enactment and
enforcement of a bankruptcy law). Strict financial policy, the improved prudential regulation
of the fragile banking sector, clearing of enterprise arrears and a program to isolate and
restructure or liquidate major loss-makers will serve to support the changes at the enterprise
level that are expected. Finally, the targeting of the social safety net will be significantly
improved in order to protect the sections of the population most affected by the removal of bread
and electricity subsidies, and to allow the pension system to be more effective and affordable
in the medium term.
16.   Growth prospects.  Output is expected to grow as the reform program begins to have
an impact on the economy and as the blockade is lifted (the lifting of the blockade, expected
during 1995, will remove constraints on external trade, sharply decrease tansport and energy



5
costs and enhance access to external financing).4  An initial GDP growth spurt of 10 percent
projected for 1995 declines to 6 percent by 2003.
17.   In early years, the rapid GDP growth will result primarily from  higher capacity
utilization (currently estimated at only 20-30 percent) and rapid private sector development.
Growth is expected to be led by export demand in FSU markets, as those economies recover,
and by increasing penetration of nontraditional markets, such as the Middle East and Europe.
Export growth of 6.5 percent in 1995 and 14 percent in 1996 is predicted following the lifting
of the blockade during 1995 falling to 8 percent by 2003. Export growth and diversification will
be stimulated by the improvement in the incentives framework induced by the reform program;
in particular, average productivity is expected to increase substantially as the role of the private
sector is enlarged and as financial discipline is imposed on the public sector.  Infrastructure
investments designed to overcome Armenia's poor transport and communications connections
with neighboring countries will significantly facilitate growth in external trade. Export growth
is expected to come primarily from light industry and, to a lesser extent, from services and
agroprocessing;5 the importance of heavy industry is likely to continue to diminish as compared
to its traditional role due to the increased real price of energy and other inputs. The satisfaction
of the previously repressed demand for services in the domestic market is also likely to make
a major contribution to growth.
18.   Private consumption will also recover as incomes rise and as the real exchange rate
appreciates as a consequence of macroeconomic stabilization.' The initial growth in private
consumption can be expected to be quite rapid (11 percent in 1995) after several years of very
low consumption levels; however, the increase is expected to tail off in later years as savings
are first restored (after very substantial dissaving) and then increased as incentives to save are
improved (by the reduction in inflationary expectations, and by enhanced confidence and
competition in the financial sector).
4 Detailed medium-term projections based on the sustained implementation of a stabilization and
structural reform program are presented in Annex 1.
5  As an example of a subsector with potential for expansion, Armenia has already developed a
large jewelry industry in which high value production mitigates the transport cost disadvantage, and
low energy intensity reduces the signif ;ance of Armenia's high energy costs. Armenia has also
developed a significant software industry benefitting from its abundant technical skills.
6 A substantial appreciation of the real exchange rate is projected. In 1995, this is a consequence
of monetary tightening and the sharp increase in the price of bread, a nontraded good on which
expenditure is a very high proportion of total consumption. Over the medium term, the appreciation
reflects a substantial increase in real wages from extremely depressed initial levels (average wages in
1994 were US$ 4-5 per month).



6
19.   Investment in new capacity will play an increasing role in generating growth as the
potential for increased capacity utilization is gradually exhausted. This will occur as private
sector confidence, both domestic and foreign (including from the diaspora), responds to the
improved investment climate, and as the financial sector plays a more effective role in
channeling savings into investment. The reduction in the overall fiscal deficit (from 23.7 percent
of GDP in 1994 to a surplus of 0.8 percent by 2003) will release substantial resources to the
private sector.  Public investment will initially increase as accumulated infrastructure
rehabilitation needs are large; however, at the same time public investment will be reoriented
away from direct production to playing a role complementary to private sector development.
20.   External Financing. Debt and Creditworthiness. Armenia will require substantial external
capital inflows to finance its transition to a market economy and the alleviation of poverty.
Rapid export growth and an improvement in the terms of trade as the blockade lifts, investments
in transport and communications infrastructure are made, and productivity in the export sectors
increases, will do much to redress the initial external imbalances.7 However, substantial
financing requirements to cover current account deficits, debt amortization and modest reserve
accumulation are projected for the medium term. Nevertheless, on the basis of current
projections, debt indicators remain acceptable over the period with the debt service-to-export
ratio declining from 17 percent in 1996 to 13 percent in 2003.9 In 1995, debt service is
projected at 24 percent of exports; this high level is due almost entirely to the repayment of a
European Union credit contracted three years earlier and repayable in one tranche.
21.   Since Armenia will only achieve commercial creditworthiness gradually, the bulk of
external resources would have to come from official sources in the medium term. In the near
tern, the substantial humanitarian aid Armenia has been receiving on a grant basis is expected
to be replaced progressively by official lending (partly on concessional terms) beginning in. 1995.
As confidence in the Armenian economy grows, and the external position strengthens, the weight
of official sources in the financing package should gradually diminish. Financing from foreign
private credit and direct investment (particularly from the Armenian diaspora) is expected to
become more important.9
See tables in Annex 1.
8 Debt-to-export ratios are considered more meaningful than debt-to-GDP ratios given the
considerable uncertainty over projections of the real exchange rate in Armenia.
9  The Armemian diaspora is estimated at 4 million people (outside of Armenia), of whom 1
million in the U.S.A., and substantial numbers in France, the Middle East, and the former Soviet
Union.



7
PART II. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM OF STABILIZATION AND
STRUCTURAL REFORMS
22.   The strategy of the Government is to accelerate the transition to a market-oriented
economy. EnhancAd prospects for peace are allowing the Govermnent's attention to be
redirected from management of a siege economy, in which energy security issues play a
dominant role, to the implementation of more forward-looking policy. Within this framework,
the economic program aims to break inflationary expectations, promote a sustained recovery in
economic growth, and improve the living standards of the poorest sections of the population.
The elements of the program are outlined below.
A.   Achieving Macroeconomic Stability
23.   The Government has designed, in consultation with the IMF, a package of financial
policies to achieve macroeconomic stability. The program is supported by a Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF) (approved by the IMF Board on December 14, 1994), to be
complemented possibly by a Stand-by Arrangement and/or an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility in 1995.
24.   The principal objectives of the stabilization program are to (i) reduce monthly inflation
to 1 percent by end-1995; (ii) strengthen the gross reserve position of the central bank to reach
1.6 months of imports by end-1995; and (iii) remove existing distortions affecting interest and
exchange rates. To achieve these objectives a combination of tight monetary and fiscal policies,
and trade and price liberalization are required.
25.   In the fiscal area, the program aims to reduce the fiscal deficit (on a commitments basis)
to 12 percent of GDP in 1995 (a deficit of 24 percent is estimated for 1994). 10 On expenditures,
the subsidy on bread and other consumer goods and services will be removed rapidly. Other
expenditures will be kept under tight control, particularly those on transfers to enterprises,
wages, and defense. On the revenue side, tax exemptions will be reduced, excise rates will be
increased, and collection efforts enhanced. `
26.   Monetary policy has been designed to achieve the targeted decline in inflation while
laying the foundations for output recovery. The role of interest rates in financial savings and
expenditure decisions will be promoted by ensuring that rates remain positive in real terms. In
pursuit of this objective, the central bank's refinance rate will be determined in credit auctions
'° On a cash basis, however, the fiscal deficit remains constant between 1994 and 1995 at 15
percent of GDP due to the substantial level of domestic arrears accumulated in 1994 which are to be
cleared in 1995.
" This effort will be supported by technical assistance to the State Tax Inspectorate and the
Customs Departinent under the Institution Building Loan.



8
through which all refinancing will take place, interest rate minima on bank deposits have been
removed, and mandatory charges on cash withdrawal have been eliminated. In parallel,
prudential regulation of the banking system will be enhanced and the supervisory capacity of the
central bank will be reinforced.
27.   On external policy, the exchange rate regime will remain flexible; in parallel, the
surrender requirement was reduced from 50 percent of export proceeds (net of direct foreign
exchange costs) to 30 percent on January 1, 1995 and will be eliminated by mid-1995. External
financing on a concessional basis will be sought, and nonconcessional foreign borrowing will
be strictly limited.
B.   Promoting the Development of Markets and Increasing their Efficiency
28.   Price Liberalization. Armeniaundertook anextensive price liberalization inJanuary 1992
in parallel with most other FSU countries. In October 1994, controls on prices of milk, baby
food, aviation services, intercity transport, and liquified gas were eliminated. A few goods and
services are still subject to direct price controls and subsidies (bread, urban transport, state-
owned housing, commlunal services, domestic telephone calls) and to limits on profit margins
(bread, electricity, and natural gas). These controls will be phased out to remove constraints
on investment and to alleviate pressure on the budget; most notably, bread price controls will
be eliminated by July 1, 1995 (see below).
29.   Of particular importance in the area of price-setting is the control on electricity prices:
sharply increased energy import prices are a major element in the terms of trade shock faced by
Armenia and electricity meets the bulk of the country's energy needs. Electricity tariffs do not
currently cover full costs and substantial cross-subsidies from producers to households and to
users of irrigation existed until recently.
30.   However, the cross subsidies in the electricity tariff were eliminated on December 1,
1994 by an increase in the tariff for households (with compensation targeted to the most
vulnerable households) and for irrigation which unified the tariff for all users (thereby removing
the taxation on the productive sector implicit in the differentiated tariff). Cost recovery policies
will be introduced as rapidly as possible to ensure adjustment to the terms of trade shock and
the financial viability of the energy sector. The calculation of full operations and maintenance
(O&M) costs will be completed by June 30, 1995, according to a methodology developed in
consultation with the World Bank. Average electricity tariffs will be set to cover at least the
average O&M costs of electricity supply by December 31, 1995. In the longer term, tariffs will
be set to recover full costs (including the cost of capital).
31.   Reform of the external regime.  Armenia has progressively removed most of the
regulatory obstacles to external trade. The import tariff, which is applied only to non-CIS
imports, is low and fairly uniiform (95 percent of current non-CIS imports are subject to duties



9
of 0-10 percent).2 Imports only require licenses (or are prohibited) for health, security and
environmental reasons; exports are also controlled for such reasons.
32.   The export regime had been largely liberalized. Export licenses are required only for
medicines and endangered animals and plants. Exports of metals and of scrap metals (outside
the framework of interstate agreements) are subject to minimum reference prices - goods
invoiced below the reference price are subject to a 100 percent tax on the difference (the use of
minimum reference prices is to be discontinued by end-1995). Thirty percent of net export
proceeds have to be surrendered to the exporter's bank (which in turn must sell the foreign
exchange in the interbank market) at the market rate (this surrender requirement is scheduled
to be abolished by July 1, 1995). There are no export taxes.
33.   A substantial portion of exports is allocated by the state task system for the purposes of
barter in the framework of interstate agreements ("clearing" trade), particularly in exchange for
energy imports. 13 14 This system has persisted due to the extreme energy insecurity faced by
Armenia in recent years. However, the clearing system depresses enterprise profitability, and
impedes the development of new markets for Armenian exports.  Furthermore, once the
blockade is lifted, and the balance of payments improves, energy security will be significantly
enhanced and the motivation for clearing will correspondingly diminish; consequently, the
Government has decided to phase out and eventually eliminate clearing as the availability of
inport financing improves. In the interim, imports under clearing arrangements will be limited
to natural gas, crude oil and mazout (other oil products will no longer be procured through
clearing), and the state task procurement system was abolished on January 1, 1995.
Arncontract, the state procurement agency, will follow competitive principles in procurement;
in addition, it will be corporatized and plans for its privatization finalized by July 1, 1995.
34.   Financial sertor reform. Economic recovery and restructuring will depend much on more
efficient allocation of financial resources and increased capacity to mobilize financial savings.
Since 1991, the financial sector has developed rapidly in Armenia. Besides five large
"specialized" former state banks, more than 50 private commercial banks have been created.
35.   A number of actions are being taken by the Govermnent and the Central Bank of
Armenia (CBA) to help change the mobilization and allocation of ficial resources to a
market-based system. The CBA began using credit auctions in July 1994 to allocate refinance
credit, in which all banks can participate (except those which are financially distressed). From
1 A few luxury items (e.g. caviar, ganes, furs, pet food, tobacco, wines and spirits) attract
rates of up to 50 percent.
' Under the state task system, public enterprises were required by the state to deliver specified
quantit.es of goods to the procurement agency, Arncontract, for the purposes of interstate barter.
" Clearing trade in 1994 is estinated to account for 78 percent of energy imports, and 34
percent of total imports.



10
the beginning of 1995, all CBA refinancing credit is being allocated by auction. In addition, all
Govermment direction of credit to specific enterprises was eliminated from January 1995. The
CBA removed interest rate minima on loans on October 1, 1994 and eliminated interest rate
minima on deposits in December 1994. The Government and the CBA also eliminated
mandatory charges on the withdrawal of cash from bank deposits in December 1994.
36.   The Government has also begun to improve the legal framework for the financial sector.
Laws on Banking and on Central Bank Activities were passed in 1993. The CBA has also begun
to improve bank supervision capabilities (with IMF assistance) and to tighten prudential
regulation. Reserve requirements on local currency deposits were increased to 15 percent of
deposits in May 1994; reserve requirements on foreign currency deposits were increased to 15
percent in October 1994.15 Increases in minimum statutory capital for banks are being phased
in over the period July 1, 1994 to April 1, 1995. The CBA is requiring that loans more than
180 days overdue should be written off against the reserve fund of the bank in question. Banks
will also be required to increase the amount of the reserve fund for bad loans to 100 percent of
statutory capital by January 1, 1996. In addition, in May 1994, the CBA issued a number of
regulatory standards on capital to assets, liabilities, and deposits, and limits on borrower
concentration. The CBA will also develop appropriate guidelines for aggregate limits on large
exposures, lending to shareholders and foreign exchange exposure.
37.   The Government and the Central Bank recognize that the reforms underway to strengthen
the banking system are likely to be only a precursor to more fundamental measures. The
process of enterprise restructuring and privatization will almost certainly reveal that the value
of the banking sector's loan portfolio is considerably less than is currently reflected in the
balance sheets of the banks. Once the size and exact nature of this problem has revealed itself,
a comprehensive financial sector strategy will be formulated (with analytical and potential
lending support from the Bank).  Such a strategy would need to address options on bank
capitalization, prudential regulation, bank taxation, and privatization.
38.   The regulatogy framework for private sector development. Private enterprises have
emerged fairly rapidly in Armenia, although their development has been constrained by
depressed economic activity and input shortages, as well as by inappropriate policy.
Macroeconomic stabilization, enterprise reform, and the liberalization of the external regime and
of prices will assist greatly in establishing an environment favorable to the private sector. A
series of more specific measures to promote private enterprise is also required."6
'5 The one exception is the Savings Bank, which will have until July 1, 1995 to reach the 15
percent reserve requirement.
16 Many of these measures require the preparation of new legislation. In this regard technical
assistance is being provided by the Bank's Institution Building Loan and by other donor initiatives.



11
39.   Considerable unused commercial space owned by state enterprises exists in Armenia.
The Government will undertake a number of initiatives to facilitate the purchase or leasing of
such space by the private sector. The process of corporatization of public enterprises not in the
1994 privatization program should release premises and other assets for use by the private sector
in advance of the privatization of the enterprises concerned, since corporatization frees such
enterprises from the requirement to seek Government permission for asset sales. By April 1,
1995, the Government intends to submit to Parliament a new land code which will define
ownership, leasehold and resale/inheritance rights to urban as well as rural land, and will allow
the privatization of industrial and commercial land. The Government also intends to develop
the system for land registration and titling, beyond the temporary titles now available for rural
land.
40.   To encourage entry of new enterprises, the Government will maintain procedures for
rapid registration and will restrict the need for licensing of activities to those required in the
public interest, such as for health, environmental and security purposes. In order to promote
investment and improved corporate governance the Government will define laws and regulations.
concerning inter alia incorporation, capitalization, governance and closure of companies. To
achieve this, a revised joint-stock company law has been submitted to Parliament. In order to
provide increased security for contracts (in particular bank lending), a law on collateral has been
submitted to Parliament; in order to facilitate closure, a bankruptcy law has also been submitted.
The Government also intends to submit to Parliament by July 1, 1995, an anti-monopoly law
designed to control abuse of dominant market positions and restrictive trade practices.
41.   The Government recognizes the need to establish a stable and equitable tax regime for
business. During 1995, a comprehensive review of tax policy will be undertaken to reconcile
the objectives of revenue mobilization and the creation of an appropriate incentives framework.
The Govermnent wilt also amend enterprise accounting methodology to reconcile it with
internationally accepted accounting principles to allow more effective taxation and asset
valuation.
42.   The Govermnent also recognizes that a free labor market is essential for economic growth
and private sector development, and consequently eliminated in October 1993 the propiska
(residence registration) requirement for labor force participants. It is also recognized that labor
mobility will be further stimulated by the development of a private housing market. To this end,
housing privatization has been underway since September 1993 and about 50 percent of the
housing stock has now been privatized; the process is expected to have been completed by end-
1995. A law on condominia, to be submitted to Parliament in mid-1995, will clarify sale rights
and maintenance responsibilities thus removing remaining obstacles to housing privatization.
43.   In order that state procurement practices should not impede private sector development,
all state purchases above US$ 50,000 will be offered for competitive tender beginning February
1, 1995. This will apply to both domestic products and imports. The World Bank Institutional
Development Fund will provide technical assistance on a grant basis to design the necessary
legal and institutional framework.



12
C.   Hardening Enterprise Budget Constraints
44.   Historically, Armenian enterprises, like those in the rest of the FSU, have been provided
with whatever credit or subsidies were necessary to fulfill centrally-devised economic plans. In
the economic crisis of recent years, some state-owned enterprises continued to receive extensive
financial support to stave off economic collapse. However, this policy has postponed adjustment
to the terms of trade shock and the removal of stmctural rigidities in the economy, thereby
exacerbating the dependency on state support.  This dependency has resulted in highly
inflationary financial policies. The hardening of enterprise budget constraints is therefore
essential to underpin macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustrnent.
45.   Privatization. The Government recognizes that rapid transfer of state-owned assets to the
private sector is critical to this process of enhancing discipline in the productive sector by
replacing subsidy-addiction with profit-seeking behavior.  In 1991, the privatization of
agricultural land commenced (making Armenia the first FSU country to undertake that step); by
end-1993 it was largely complete and 87 percent of agricultural land (excluding kitchen gardens)
had been transferred to private hands. More than 700 of the approximately 800 state and
collective farms had been broken up, and almost 300,000 private farms had been created. Since
February 1994, the sale of land has been permitted. In addition, in 1991/2, 335 small
commercial enterprises were privatized.
46.   The first wave of enterprise privatization took place within an inadequate legal
framework. For this reason, and because of rising opposition to reform from vested interests
and the population at large as the economic crisis deepened, the privatization process halted.
However, in June 1992, the law on "Privatization and Denationalization of State Enterprises and
Unfinished Construction" was approved. In January 1994, Parliament adopted a privatization
program for 1994 providing for the privatization of about 5000 entities through a combination
of voucher and cash sales, and more detailed implementing regulations have since been
approved. This program is estimated to represent approximately 35 percent of productive assets
owned by the state, and is envisaged as the first stage of a process to privatize all but a few
"strategic" enterprises, which is expected to last through the end of 1997.17
47.   Two main institutions are responsible for implementing privatization in Armenia, under
the supervision of the Ministry of Economy. The Privatization Commission, which is governed
by a 20-member board (10 appointed by Parliament and 10 by the President) drafts the relevant
legal framework, selects enterprises for privatization, and determines the timing and methods
of privatization. The Privatization Board, which is under the direct control of the Government,
implements the program. Both the Commission and the Board are receiving technical assistance
from EU TACIS and the Institution Building Loan (IBL).
'' The "strategic" category is understood to include certain transport, armaments, and energy
enterprises.



13
48.   The implementation of the privatization program has accelerated since the summer of
1994. By end-January 1995 about 300 small scale enterprises had been privatized, and over
1000 additional small enterprises were in the pipeline. The employees of small enterprises have
the first option to purchase the enterprise (at a price determined by a valuation process), with
payment by instalment in cash or vouchers. If the employees do not wish to purchase the
enterprise or if they fail to pay the first instalment, the enterprise is offered for sale by auction.
Privatization of the 5,000 small scale enterprises owned by the state is scheduled to be completed
by mid-1996. "'
49.   Voucher distribution commenced in October 1994 and is expected to be completed in
February 1995. The vouchers, available to all Armenian citizens at a nominal fee, have an
announced value of 10,000 drams (equivalent to about US$ 25), and will be revalued every three
months in line with the consumer price index. Vouchers are freely tradeable. The total nominal
value of the vouchers currently being distributed is equal to 30 percent of the assessed value of
the assets in the current privatization program.
50.   Development of the regulatory framework and infrastructure for mass privatization is
accelerating. Approximately 900 medium- and large-scale enterprises are to be privatized in
1995. The majolity of these enterprises also form part of a program to convert 1100 industrial
enterprises into joint-stock companies in which the employees receive 20 percent of the shares
free of charge. For all the enterprises in the mass privatization program, the state will sell 100
percent of its shares remaining after the free distribution to employees. Twenty percent of those
shares will be offered to the employees at the price established by the valuation process, and the
remainder will be offered by auction for cash and vouchers. Auction mechanisms have been
designed to permit a high degree of pricing flexibility.  If the Privatization Commission
considers an enterprise to be of interest to strategic investors, it can be sold by competitive
tender rather than by auction. The first auction of medium- and large-scale ernterprises is
scheduled for March 1, 1995. The first tender (of the majority shareholding in 10 enterprises)
is to take place by July 1, 1995. A massive public relations campaign to promote privatization
is now underway.
51.   Investment funds are beginning to form and licensing regulations were adopted in mid-
December 1994. According to the Investment Fund Decree, a fund can own up to 40 percent
of the shares in any given enterprise. The funds are therefore expected to play a valuable role
in corporate governance as well as in capital market development and in allowing the population
to diversify risk.
52.   More generally, privatization, as well as continued advances in the private sector and the
growth of the financial sector, will contribute to the development of capital markets in Armenia.
Trading of shares of privatized companies will be facilitated through the creation of secondary
,s Approximately 2000 of these enterprises are already leased to their employees, and will be
privatized.



14
markets. To facilitate trading, the Government will design and implement a share registry
system by April 1, 1995. In addition, the Government has established a unit within the Ministry
of Finance to be responsible for regulating and supervising the capital markets.
53.   Financial Discipline and Restructuring. Since the process of privatization is scheduled
to take three years, and some enterprises may remain state-owned at least in the medium term,
the development of mechanisms to impose a hard budget constraint on these enterprises will be
critical. Elimination of direct transfers from the government budget or from the banks will not
be an effective means of instilling corporate discipline if enterprises receive quasi-fiscal transfers
in the form of arrears to state-owned suppliers or if enterprises accumulate tax arrears.
54.   In Armenia, a significant portion of the interenterprise arrears problem stems from (i)
the nonpayment by consumers of electricity which feeds through to the nornpaymeni by the
energy sector to Armcontract for energy imported under the clearing trade system, and hence
to arrears from Armcontract to the Armenian suppliers of goods bartered for those energy
imports; (ii) the nonpayment by Government of its contractual obligations to the enterprise
sector.
55.   The electricity utility, Armenergo, has increased its collection efforts and has instituted
a system of prepayment for electricity. However, progress in this area has been slowed by
several factors, including the unreliability of service due to severe shortages of gas and fuel and
weaknesses in the legal framework conceniing diversions of electrical power. A draft law
covering this issue will be submitted to Parliament by mid-1995. In view of the expected
improvement in energy supplies during 1995 as external financing constrints and the blockade
lift, the share of electricity allocated by market mechanisms will be increased from below 10
percent currently to 50-70 percent of total supply by April 1, 1995. Armenergo aims to reduce
technical and commercial losses by at least 30 percent by end-1995 by, inter alia, improved
billing and collection efforts.
56.   The fiscal program for 1995 (agreed with the IMF) envisages that during the first three
quarters the Government will clear its accunulated arrears to the enterprise sector, estimated to
equal almost 3 percent of GDP (quarterly targets have been established). The Government will
ensure that this encourages a general arrears-clearing exercise without fiscal or monetary
expansion. A task force has been set up in the Ministry of Finance (in close collaboration with
the Central Bank) to coordinate this exercise. Finns receiving payments through the settlement
of Government arrears will be informed of their legal obligations to eliminate overdue payables
and be required to inform the task force of their actions in this respect; creditors of such firms
will also be informed when payment of Government arrears has been made. This will send a
strong signal to the enterpnse sector that firms are responsible for meeting their obligations, and
will pennit clear identification of the largest net debtors. At the same time it will allow more
transparent valuation procedures which will facilitate privatization, bankruptcy, and credit
allocation.



15
57.  In July 1995, once the settlement process is well-advanced, a committee will be created
in the Central Bank to monitor the level and structure of all payables and receivables and their
overdue portions for the fifty largest enterprises or concerns in the country. This will be
integrated with a similar reporting system covering the fifty firms with the largest overdue
obligations to the banking system (a portfolio review of the banks is already underway). A
monthly report will provide the basis for an early warning system against the systemic buildup
of arrears. Building on the experience gained in other transition countries in the early stages
of stabilization, banks will be discouraged from new lending to clients accumulating arrears,
either directly or through requiring one hundred percent reserves against such loans. This is
seen as an interim step towards normalizing financial relationships, which can only be fully
realized following a period of macroeconomic stability and the normalization of trading
relationships.
58.   Restructuring as a reaction to changing conditions is already taking place in some
enterprises. However, others are in serious difficulties as indicated by low capacity utilization
and increased arrears. The Government plans to utilize the above early warning system by
placing ten critical loss-making enterprises in a restructuring program in order to demonstrate
in practical terms an approach to containing their losses while at the same time developing a set
of recommendations on how their problems can best be addressed. A time-bound program
would be developed in which the enterprise would have to demonstrate viability or face
liquidation. Restructuring measures could include divesting underutilized assets, reducing
employment, developing new marketing strategies, taking steps to reduce excessive levels of
accounts receivable, improving management control by organizational changes etc. Such
restructuring would not involve new investment, but would prepare the enterprises for
privatization. Technical assistance will be sought in order to work with each enterprise to
develop and implement these measures."9 The Governmuent will appoint an administrator to
oversee the restructuring process in each enterprise.
59.   Enterprises in the program would not have access to new unsecured credit from banks
or from suppliers; at the same time, debt service payments by those enterprises would be frozen.
Each enterprise would undertake a debt workout negotiation with its creditors under the
supervision of its administrator. The Government recognizes that enterprise restructuring and
debt workouts may require budgetary transfers, but will only make such transfers within a
restructuring program for a given enterprise and within the constraint of its overall fiscal
objectives.
D.   Ensuring a Minimum Level of Social Protection for the Poorest
60.   Sustained implementation of the stabilization and reform program will generate economic
growth in the medium-term and allow living standards in Armenia to improve; social protection
"9 Funding for this technical assistance is to be provided by the Institution Building Loan.



16
measures in the absence of such an adjustment program will do little to alleviate poverty.
However, there will be social needs during the transition and over the longer term for which
public provision must be made. Expenditure on social protection (including consumer subsidies)
in Armenia has been high (20 percent of GDP in 1993) but average benefits are very low; in
short, the system is expensive and poorly targeted. In addition, these expenditures are partly
financed by a payroll tax, which is likely to discourage the hiring of labor as enterprises begin
to move toward profit maximization.' Substantial restructuring of the major social programs
and targeting to the most vulnerable groups is required, thereby increasing their effectiveness
within the overall goal of limiting the state budget deficit.
61.   Within the current system of transfers, there are two primary candidates for cost savings
which could be funneled into targeted protection: the pension system and generalized consumer
subsidies. The Government envisions a modest public pension system to ensure a minimum
standard for retirees along with the development of privately managed and financed, earnings-
related retirement insurance plans. As a transitional step towards this goal, the Government will
introduce a pension reform in early 1995.
62.   The pension reform consists of increasing the retirement age, changing the nature of the
benefit formulae, breaking the current link between the minimum wage and the pension system,
and reducing special exemptions and privileges. In the medium term, the Government intends
to reduce or eliminate benefits to pensioners who continue to work as part of its intention to
move towards means-tested transfers.
63.   The Govermment has submitted draft legislation on the pension reform to Parliament.
Inis draft legislation provides that the retirement age will be increased by six months for men
and by one year for women on 1 January 1996 (from its current level of 60 for men and 55 for
women), and will be subsequently increased annually by the same amounts until a retirement age
of 65 years for both men and women is reached.2" The pension formula (currently based on the
last year of earnings) will henceforth be based on the social pension (which is paid to those
retirees who lack any recorded work tenure), with small increments based on years worked.
The increments will be modest in order to generate cost-savings and because the Government's
long-term objective is to pay only a minimum pension (leaving supplementary pension provision
to private savings/retirement plans). The length-of-service additions will also be structured to
generate significant cost savings. Length-of-service requirements for early retirements will be
increased by 5 years for both men and women in phase with the increases in the retirement age;
I State enterprises pay 35 percent of the payroll, individual farmers pay 29 percent, and priva&e
enterprises pay 10 percent. Individual private entrepreneurs pay 37 percent of an amount equal to
twice the minimumn wage multiplied by the number of employees.
21 People currently approaching the retirement age will be subject to a grandfathering provision
which will gradually increase the retirement age depending on the current age of the potential retiree.
For example, a woman now aged 54 would retire at age 56, a woman aged 53 would retire at 57 etc.



17
early retirees will be subject to a minimum age of 55 for both men and women before benefit
is paid.'
64.   Reducing generalized consumer subsidies will generate significant fiscal resources, but
will require offsetting compensation for the most vulnerable groups. Of particular importance
is the bread subsidy which is expected to equal 13 percent of GDP in 1994. The Government
increased the administered price of bread from 6 dram per kilogram to 66 dram on December
1, 1994, and will adjust the price further on April 1, 1995 (to take account of inflation since
December 1, 1994), and liberalize fully the price of bread by July 1, 1995. In addition, the
Government raised the price charged to residential users of electricity seven-fold on December
1, 1994 (thereby removing the cross subsidy from producers).
65.   In view  of the difficulties of developing an effectively means-tested system  of
compensation for these price increases, the Government will in the short term rely on targeting
compensation through those existing cash and in-kind transfers which reflect categories of the
most needy: children, the unemployed, and pensioners dependent on administered incomes.
66.   Recognizing the correlation between the number of dependents (particularly children) and
poverty, the Government increased child allowances as of December 1, 1994. Similarly, the
unemployment benefit was increased on December 1, 1994. However, approximately 100,000
of those registered as unemployed have exceeded the eligibility period for unemployment benefit
and therefore constitute a particularly vulnerable group. The Government will therefore target
humanitarian aid more effectively to those officially registered as unemployed but not in receipt
of unemployment benefit. For this purpose, the free provision of essential foodstuffs to this
group commenced in December 1994. By April 1, 1995, the Government will submit legislation
to Parliament extending bread compensation directly to this category of the unemployed to
replace the food program. Additionally, the Government is comDensating pensioners for the
increased cost of bread and electricity as of December 1, 1994. Finally, the Government
increased wages to civil servants ("budgetary sphere" employees) in the lowest grades to
compensate for the increased cost of bread and electricity as of December 1, 1994.
67.   In the medium term, the Government intends to implement a system of targeting cash
benefits based on needs, utilizing the experience gained with the "Paros" program for targeting
humanitarian assistance.' In order to provide a sound basis for targeting social benefits, the
'  Under Armenian pension law, early retirement is allowed for certain occupations if a length-
of-service requiremnent has been met. The new pension law provides for that requirement to be
increased by five years (from 25 years for men and 20 years for women) in phase with the increase in
the retirement age, and receipt of pension on early retirement to be subject to a minimum age of 55.
The gender differential in the length-of-service requirement remains after the pension law reform to
reflect interruptions in women's employment due to child-care.
3 This program, known as "Paros" in Armenian and "Beacon" in English. is funded by USAID
and seeks to identify appropriate groups for targeted assistance.



18
Govermment (in collaboration with the academic community) has initiated a pilot household
survey based on a nationally representative, random sample. Under a component of the
Armenian Social Investment Fund (SIF), a national integrated household survey, utilizing the
pilot survey experienLce, will be conducted. In parallel to improving the targeting of cash
benefits, labor-intensive public works schemes financed from the SIF will be undertaken.
PART III. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.   Background and Objectives
68.   The key objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy are to deepen structural
reforms to complete the transition to a market economy and to alleviate the largi; pockets of
poverty that have emerged over the last few years. In tenns of structural reforms, emphasis will
be placed on promoting private sector development and establishing a targeted system of social
protection. Continued strict macroeconomic policies and deepened structural reforms should
lead to the resumption of economic growth and higher overall living standards. Sector specific
interventions, to complement the economy-wide efforts, will focus on the delivery of social
services, on energy efficiency and on the rehabilitation of other critical infrastrucure.
69.   A strong consensus exists within Annenia on these development objectives. Until
recently, implementation of economic reform had been hampered by instability in the Caucasus
countries, especially the armed conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh. The progress towards peace
in the Karabakh conflict has enabled the Armenian authorities to focus anew on economic issues.
In these improved circumstances, the Bank has resumed the development of a full assistance
program consisting of lending, of economic and sector work (ESW), of policy dialogue and of
active resource mobilization and coordination. It is expected that a far-reaching peace agreement
will be reached soon so as to remove the risk of stalling reform and continuously falling living
standards due to civil conflict.
B.   Bank/IDA Assistance to Date
70.   The reform process in Armenia was launched with considerable momentum just after
independence, with strong programs of land and small-scale enterprise privatization. In response
to these early efforts, the Bank quickly prepared a Country Economic Memorandum (distributed
in March 1993) to assist the Goverrunent in its policy formulation process. However, the Bank's
early focus on policy reform in its dialogue with Armenia could not be sustained due to renewed
fighting in Karabakh during early 1993. Instead, the Bank's strategy was reduced to supporting
the development of market-oriented institutions and to maintaining the delivery of key
infrastructure services to meet basic human needs.
71.   In this context, an Institution Building Loan (Loan 3585-AM) in the amount of US$12
million was approved in March 1993. Under this loan, support for institution-building is being



19
provided in (i) macroeconomic management; (ii) social safety net and employment services; (iii)
mobilization of fiscal revenue; (iv) enterprise refonr, including privatization; and (v) financial
sector reform.
72.   Three IDA credits have been approved in support of infrastructure rehabilitation. The
first infrastructure operation in the amount of US$28 million was the Earthquake Reconstruction
Credit (Credit 25620; approved in January 1994). Its objectives are to provide improved
housing and living conditions to victims of the 1988 earthquake through reconstruction of basic
infrastructure, which will support employment creation. On December 8, 1994, an Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project in the amount of US$43 million and a Power Maintenance Project in the
amount of US$13.7 million were approved. With about three quarters of the total agricultural
production dependent on irrigated land, recent degradation in the maintenance of the irrigation
system has jeopardized the recovery of the agriculture sector. The Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project aims at rehabilitating critical parts of the irrigation system. Electricity availability for
households has been severely restricted due to shortage of fuel. Despite low capacity utilization,
the degradation of the system has accelerated. The Power Maintenance Project aims at repairing
and restoring six power plants and at strengthening the electricity distribution system.
73.   The implementation of the Institution Building Loan was initially slow, due to lack of
experience with projects of this nature in the implementing agencies; also, the difficult
circumstances in the country dimmed the interest of potential suppliers of technical assistance.
Recently, implementation has improved, reflecting the better physical and political
circumstances, and renewed momentum in the reform effort. The implementation of the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project has been good so far, with construction work proceeding
according to schedule. In addition to lending, the Bank has also assisted the Government's
policy formulation process through missions and economic and sector work. Aside from the
Country Economic Memorandum, an Energy Sector Review was distributed in June 1993 and
an Agriculture and Food Sector Review has just been completed, as has an informal
environmental review. An Institutional Development Fund grant has been approved to improve
public procurement regulations and practices.
C.   The Lending Program
74.   The Bank Group Assistance Strategy beyond these projects would support: (i) stabilization
and structural reform with adjustment lending and policy-oriented ESW; (ii) energy efficiency,
export development, and the rehabilitation of basic infrastructure with investment lending; and
(iii) poverty reduction, both in the design of lending operations, and through support for the
cost-effective delivery of basic social services, especially for the poor. The Bank would seek
to mobilize adequate fnacing for Armenia's development effort by leading donor coordination
through the Consultative Group process and by promoting policies to encourage increased
foreign direct investment and other equity investments.



20
75.   The lcvel and composition of the Bank Group's assistance to Arm1niia will depend on the
maintenance of peace and stability in the region and on the country's pcrformance in
implementing its stabilization and structural adjustment program. Strong and continued progress
in these areas will enable a high case program blending IDA and IBRD resources, but with an
increasing share ol IBRD lending. Continued progress in some areas of reform but slippages
in others would justify moving to a medium case program (also blending IDA and IBRD
resources), as would worsening creditworthiness due to shortfalls in external financing (see para.
76). However, given the uncertainty surrounding Annenia's macroeconomic prospects, the
Bank's country assistance strategy would be reassessed before IBRD lending is resumed, with
particular regard to creditworthiness considerations. In the event of more generalized policy
slippages than are assumed in the medium case, assistance would be reduced to a low case
program and limited to a few investment operations on IDA terms only.
76.   A necessary condition for the implementation of the high case program will be adequate
financing of the balance of payment requirements over the next 2-3 years. This will require
increased financial assistance from the international conumunity, in particular from bilateral
donors. Considering the limited foreign exchange generation capacity of the Armenian economy
in the near term and existing external debt obligations, large amounts of external financing with
long maturities and grace periods as well as concessional interest rates will be required. Without
such support, the level at which the Bank could prudently lend would be reduced, despite
satisfactory progress in policy implementation on the part of the country.
77.   The high case scenario described above assumes that the following conditions (or
triggers) are met:
*     continued progress towards political stability in the region, in particular implementation
of a peace agreement over Nagorno-Karabakh;
*     progress in implementing sustainable macroeconomic policies leading to low inflation in
the short term and the restoration of sustainable growth in the medium term;
*     substantial advance in structural reforms on an economy-wide front, including timely
implementation of the privatization program, elimination of the state's direct role in
external trade, and more effective targeting of the social safety net.
78.   The lending program under the high case sxenario would consist of 8 projects totalling
about US$ 220-245 million over the three years FY96-98, split roughly fifty-fifty between IDA
and IBRD lending. The three-year lending program would be apportioned approximately as
follows: adjustment lending, trade and finance (45 percent), transport and energy (25 percent),
agriculture (15 percent), social sectors and housing (15 percent).
79.  In the high case, the core of the Bank Group's program would be adjustment lending and
lending to support the structural reform program. This support would be in the form of the
proposed Rehabilitation Credit and further adjustment operations would be in the form of



21
structural adjustment loans or sector adjustment loans. The first sector adjustment operation
would promote financial sector development and the financial discipline of enterprises. If the
situation called for a broader approach, this operation could be complemented or replaced by a
Structural Adjustment Credit with a focus on these enterprise/financial sector issues. An
adjustment operation in the social or energy sectors would follow.
80.  In addition to a stable macroeconomic framework and general progress on structural
reform, the sector-specific conditions for investment lending would be the following: (i) progress
towards full cost-recovery and elimination of cioss-subsidies in energy pricing; (ii) sound public
investment planning and appropriate cost recovery policies and institution building measures in
the infrastructure sector; (iii) measures to implement agreed medium-term sectoral adjusunent
strategies in health and education; and (iv) demonopolization of trade and processing and
measures to develop land-market institutions in the agriculture sector.
81.   Reduced policy performance or insufficient external financing availability leading to
lower export growth rates and therefore to worsening creditworthiness would move the program
to the medium case, which would include 5 projects. In this scenario, lending would also be
a blend of IDA and IBRD resources and would total US$ 130-170 million. There would be one
adjustment operation over the three-year period in the energy or social sectors i. agreement can
be reached on a comprehensive sector policy framework. Investment lending in the medium
case would proceed where progress can be made on project-related policy issues as defined for
the hlgh case (see para. 80).
82.   The triggers for the medium case would be:
*     continued progress towards political stability in the region, in particular implementation
of a peace agreement over Nagomo-Karabakh;
*     progress in implementing sustainable macroeconomic policies leading to low inflation in
the short term and the restoration of sustainable growth in the medium term;
O     progress on structural reforms, although not economy-wide. This will include at a
minimum sustained small-scale privatization and more effective targeting of the social
safety net.
83.   The Bank would pursue a significantly smaller lending program in case the overall
stabilization and reform program stalls. In this low case, lending would be targeted to
investment projects aiming to arrest the deterioration of key infrastructure and to deal with
human resource issues. This assistance program would include 3 projects for US$ 50-60 million
on IDA tenms only.
84.   The low case would also require continued progress towards political stability in the
region. Movement from the high or medium case to the low case would be triggered by:



22
0     weakening of stabilization policy and generally slow progress on structural reform.
85.   The Bank's lending program will be supported by economic and sector work to provide
a basis for its policy dialogue. Preparatory work for the first Poverty Assessment has
commenced, while a Public Expenditure Review will be initiated in FY96. A National
Environmental Action Plan is also planned for FY96. Sector work will aim at supporting the
lending program.
86.   As mentioned above, thie absence of sufficient external financing, either in the forn of
financial assistance or in the forn of foreign direct investment flows has been identified as an
important risk that would slow down economic growth and jeopardize the reformn process. Even
in case of strong policy performance, however, Armenia's economic performance is heavily
dependent on external factors, specifically political stability in the region. While there is reason
to trust that developments in this area will remain positive, the situation in this respect will be
kept under close review. During 1995, the absence of adequate financial support from bilateral
donors could generate serious social and political difficulties. In that situation, the Bank would
adjust to lower lending levels as reflected in the medium case program. Donor countries should
be encouraged to support Armenia to the maximum possible extent in order for the Bank to be
able to play its part in supporting the country in its comprehensive program of economic
reforms, which starts from extremely difficult circmstances.
D.   Coordination of Externa Assistance, MIGA and IFC Activities
87.   To miniimize the risk of underfunding of the reform program and to facilitate coordination
of external assistance, the Bank has organized aid coordination meetings for Armenia. A pre-
Consultative Group meeting to coordinate technical assistance to Armenia was held in May 1993.
A full Consultative Group was held on November 22, 1994 to mobilize balance of payments
financing to complement the proposed Rehabilitationi Credit and STF from the IMF. Financial
commitnents were made for 1995 totallinL LTS$ 265 million (equivalent to about two-thirds of
estimated fiancing needs).
88.   Extensive consultation with the IMF is taking place on the design of a Rehabilitation
Credit and of implementation of the Institution Building Loan. In addition, the EU and USAID
are providing parallel financing for the Institution Building Loan. The Government of Japan
contributed to the preparation of the Earthquake Reconstruction project, while UlSAID and the
EU contributed to the preparation of the Power Maintenance project. Presently, the Social
Investment Fund project is being prepared in close cooperation with USAID and NGOs. Close
cooperation with EBRD is maintained in the energy sector and in the private sector development
sphere. While these efforts point in the direction of relatively good donor coordination, this
fimction in the Annenian Government still needs significant strengthening, for which assistance
will be provided by UNDP. The Bank intends to organize annual CGs in the first two years,
and biennial meetings beyond that, conditional on implementation of the base case program.



23
89.   Armenia is in the process of joining IFC and expects to be a member by early 1995.
Membership in MIGA is under consideration. Given the constrained possibilities for investments
under the blockade, substantive discussions on possible IFC or MIGA interventions have not yet
taken place. The potential of such interventions to unlock support from the Armenian diaspora,
however, should be significant.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED REHABILITATION CREDIT
A.   Program Inplementation and Credit Conditions
90.   The Government's structural reform  program, to be supported by the proposed
Rehabilitation Credit, has been outlined above. The program, including timetables for the
implementation of specific measures during the 12 months following Board presentation, is
described in the attached Letter of Development Policy (LDP). In the course of preparation of
the program, technical assistance needs for its implementation have been identified; such
technical assistnce will either be financed by the Bank's Institution Building Loan or by other
donors. A task force drawn from the key central and line agencies, coordinated by the Ministry
of Economy, has been established to monitor implementation of the program.
91.   The Letter of Development Policy describes a substantial program of structural reform
measures and significant steps have already been taken in recent months. The Government's full
commitment to an ambitious reform program is reflected in the measures that were taken before
Board presentation and which will be taken for effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
92.   The measures which were taken by the Government as a result of agreements reached
during negotiation of the proposed Credit are described below and reflect the program's
emphasis on the critical areas of hardening budget constraints, promoting competitive markets,
and ensuring the provision of an adequate social safety net.
Hardening Budget Constraints
0     adoption of a Ministry of Finance order establishing a task force to coordinate a
general arrears-clearing exercise to be carried out when Government begins to
clear its arrears in 1995. The order outlines the objectives of the task force and
nominates its members;
*    public announcement that, according to the law, corporatized public enterprises
(not in the 1994 privatization program) do not require Government permission to
sell their assets. Since corporatization has commenced only recently in Armenia,
such an announcement is needed for newly-corporatized enterprises to be aware
of this important legal right;



24
*     satisfactory progress in the conclusion of privatization sales contracts for small
enterprises in the context of the Privatization Program approved by Parliament.
About 300 small-scale enterprise had been privatized by end-January 1995;
*     issuance of regulations satisfactory to the Bank goveming the holding of auctions
for medium- to large-scale privatization. In particular, pricing flexibility is a
primary objective of the auction mechanism. The only restriction on the auction
will be that if less than 25 percent of the shares offered in an auction are
demanded, the auction will be cancelled. Within the following three months one
of three options will be implemented: either (i) liquidation of the enterprise; or
(ii) negotiation of a direct sale to a single buyer; or (iii) holding a second auction.
In the case of option (iii), the enterprise will be liquidated if less than 25 percent
of the shares are demanded;
Promotine Competitive Markets
*     adoption of a decree to remove the following export restrictions: 25 percent
mandatory prepayment for private sector exports; export licensing (except for
pharmaceuticals on health grounds and animals/plants in the Red Book of
Armenia on environmental grounds); export tax on goods invoiced below
reference prices (i.e. the use of minimum reference prices will be discontinued),
except for metals and scrap metal (for which reference prices will be abolished
by end-1995); all prohibitions affecting inter-enterprise barter transactions;
o     interstate barter clearing agreements concluded for 1995 include imports of only
natural gas, crude oil and mazout;
Ensuring the Provision of an Adequate Social Safety Net
*     submission by Government to Parliament of draft legislation on pension reform
to effect a phased increase in the retirement age, to delink the pension system
from the minimum wage, and to flatten the structure of pensions.
93.  In the context of hardening enterprise budget constraints and promoting competitive
markets, the holding of the first privatization auction for medium- to large-scale enterprises is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
B.   The Proposed Project
94.   Credit amount and borrower. The proposed credit of SDR 41.5 million (the equivalent
of US$ 60 million) would be made to the Republic of Armenia represented by the Ministry of
Finance. Disbursements will be made to the Central Bank of Arnenia (CBA), and an account
of the Ministry of Finance at the CBA will be credited with the dram equivalent at the official



25
exchange rate of the day;24 the Government will thereby receive non-inflationary budget support.
The foreign exchange proceeds of the credit will be sold by the CBA or will be held in reserves,
in accordance with the objectives of monetary policy.' The credit would be on standard IDA
terms, including a 35 year maturity and a 10 year grace period.
95.   Proiect management.  Overall coordination of project activities and general loan
administration will be the responsibility of a project manager employed by the Ministry of
Economy. The project manager, who has already been hired, will be responsible for preparing
applications for disbursement, maintaining project accounts and arranging for their timely audit,
and monitoring overall loan implementation. On the basis of the information from the various
agencies involved in the implementation of this loan, the project manager will prepare the
Borrower's contribution to the Project Completion Report within six months of the closing date.
The project manager has obtained experience in similar work in her function as head of the
Project Implementation Unit for the Bank's Institution Building Loan.
96.   Procurement. Procurement under the project will follow standard procedures as spelled
out in the "Guidelines for Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits." The ICB
threshold is US$ 1 million for this credit. Procurement for imports under US$ 1 million will
be done directly by importers using their normal practices.' In determining the threshold the
following considerations were taken into account: (i) the Bank's evolving experience of public
procurement practices in Armenia, gained through experience with two previous loans and
through enterprise visits, revealed that commercial practices are generally in line with the
requirement that enterprises, in both public and private sectors, solicit multiple quotations from
multiple countries; (ii) the Letter of Development Policy incorporates measures to enhance the
role of competition in public procurement; and (iii) technical assistance in public procurement
is being provided by the Bank.2' Simplified ICB processes (using Bank standard bidding
documents) would be followed for all contracts for US$ 1 million or greater and would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. Subject to the Bank's prior approval, commonly traded
commodities would be procured through organized international commodities markets or other
channels of competitive procurement. A Country Procurement Assessment Review is planned
for FY95.
24 The official exchange rate is defined in Armenia as the rate deternined by the latest auction.
2 The CBA sells foreign exchange to banks on behalf of their clients (through the interbank
auction) and to the Government for its own needs (at the rate established in the latest auction).
26 The procurement procedures applied to public entities in Armenia are based on competition
open to both foreign and local bidders and have been found acceptable to the Bank.
27 An Institutional Development Fund grant has been approved for the development of public
procurement legislation and an appropriate institutional framework in Armenia. In addition, the
Institution Building Loan provides funding for procurement training.



26
97.   Eligible expenditures. The credit would provide quick-disbursing balance of payments
support based on evidence that imports of eligible goods had taken place. Non-eligible imports
would include goods on the World Bank's standard negative list; imports paid for in the currency
of Armenia and goods financed by other donors. Retroactive financing of payments made to
suppliers not more than four months before loan signing will be permissible up to a maximum
of SDR 12.45 million (US$ 18 million) equivalent to 30 percent of the amount of the credit.
This retroactive financing is justified by the up-front action already taken by the Govermnent
on many important elements of the reform program. Pre-shipment inspection will not be
required under the proposed credit: the low or zero level of import tariffs for the bulk of imports
limits the probability of tax evasion through under-invoicing, while macroeconomic stabilization
has diminished the incentives for capital flight through over-invoicing.2
98.   Disbursement.  The financing will be provided on the basis of (i) statements of
expenditure, prepared in accordance with the Bank's simplified documentation requirement for
adjustment operations (i.e., based on customs certificate) for contracts valued at less than US$1
million29; (ii) full documentation (i.e., contract, supplier's invoice, evidence of shipment,
customs certificate, and evidence of payment) for contracts of US$ 1 million and above,
provided there are supporting documents that the contracts were awarded according to Bank
procurement guidelines; and (iii) a statement by the Government that the imports presented for
fimancing from the Rehabilitation Credit have not been financed by another loan or grant.
Contracts valued at less than US$ 5,000 will not be eligible for financing. The project manager
will prepare the withdrawal applications and will keep photocopies of the customs documents
on which the applications are based. The original customs documents will be retained by the
Customs Department until three years after the closing of the project, and will be made available
to Bank supervision missions and to the auditors, as requested.
99.   Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing. The project manager will maintain all project
accounts, which will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on auditing anid financial reporting. Audit reports will
be submitted to the World Bank not later than six months after the close of each year or the date
of final disbursement. The project manager will also prepare monthly progress reports detailing
the status of all disbursement requests.
100.  Closing date. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed within a short period of time.
It is therefore proposed that the closing date of the credit be June 30, 1996.
z In addition, the Armenian Customs Department is currently receiving technical assistance
(financed by the Institution Building Loan) to strengthen its valuation capabilities.
29 The Armenian Customs Department is currently receiving technical assistance from UNCTAD
in the installation of an automated customs documentation system, in the framework of the Institution
Btailding Loan.



27
101. Environmental cateworv. The project will have no direct impact on the environment.
For the purposes of OD 4.01, it has therefore been placed in Category U which does not require
an environmental assessment.
C.   Benefits and Risks
102. Benefits. The structural reform program supported by the credit will, in conjunction with
macroeconomic stabilization supported by the IMF, foster the development of a competitive
market economy, led by the private sector. This will promote the efficient allocation of
resources to underpin economic growth and a reduction of poverty. The credit will provide
critical import support to allow economic recovery and to stem the decline in living standards,
and will do so through market mechanisms. The credit should serve to catalyze quick-disbursing
balance of payments financing from other donors.
103.  Risks. There is a risk of slippage in both stabilization and structural reform in the face
of sociopolitical opposition if economic recovery does not proceed fast enough to satisfy rising
expectations (parliamentary elections are to be held in May 1995). However, this will be
mitigated by improved targeting of the social safety net and continued humanitarian assistance
from donors and from the Armenian diaspora. The implementation of the reform program could
be undermined by institutional weaknesses, although the provision of technical assistance through
the Institution Building Loan and support from other donors will help to offset this risk. There
is a significant risk of the donor community providing insufficient balance of payments financing
in support of stabilization and structural reform, which would entail an unsustainable reduction
in living standards. However, the Consultative Group process is designed to mitigate this risk.
An additional risk is that aggregate demand will recover only slowly in Armenia's FSU markets,
and that access to non-traditional export markets will be undermined by protectionism. A further
risk is the resumption of hostilities over Nagomo-Karabakh, and the consequent continuation of
Armenia's economic isolation. However, the current peace negotiations appear to be moving
in a positive direction and economic recovery should increase popular support for peace.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
104. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
February 2, 1995
Attachments



28
Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
REHABILITATION CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                       9 months
(b)   Prepared by:                                 Government with the assistance of
IBRD staff
(c)   Preparation Missions:                        June 8-22, 1994
October 19-November 9, 1994
(d)   Negotiations:                                January 24-26, 1995
(e)   Planned date of effectiveness:               March 1, 1995
(f)    List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:            Not applicable



ANNEX 1
Table 1. Armenia: Key Economic Indicators
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Summary Indicators (Real Growth Rates)
Gross Domestic Product               -15.0      3.0    10.0      9.0      8.0      7.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0
Private Consumption                    na      10.9    13.0      6.1      5.5     4.8      4.4      4.6     5.8      3.9      4.1
Annual Inflation                    3731.9  5020.9   198.0    10.0        6.0     6.0      4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0
ExportsofG&NFS                         na      3.0      6.5    14.0    12.5    11.0    10.0         9.0     8.5      8.0      8.0
Imports of G&NFS                       na      5.0    15.0       8.0      7.0     6.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
National and Fiscal Accounts (% of GDP)
Investment                             7.9    10.4    11.5    13.0    14.4    15.8    15.8    16.0    16.2    16.5    16.7
Gross Domestic Savings               -47.2   -53.9   -34.2   -17.0    -5.4         2.1      6.2     8.8    11.3    12.5    13.5
Budget Revenues                       28.8    37.3    29.6    25.1    22.0    19.4    18.1    17.9    17.9    17.9    17.8
o/w: Tax Revenue                     16.2    14.7    16.7    17.9    17.3    16.0    15.8    15.7    15.7    15.7    15.7
Budget Expenditures                   85.0    61.0    41.7    35.2    29.0    24.1    20.5    19.6    18.4    17.3    17.0
Fiscal Deficit                       -56.1   -23.7   -12.0   -10.0    -7.0    -4.7    -2.4    -1.6    -0.5            0.6     0.8
Exports                               47.2    56.0    30.2    24.8    22.2    21.5    20.0    21.2    22.5    22.3    22.1
Imports                              102.3   120.3    75.9    54.8    42.0    35.3    29.6    28.4    27.3    26.3    25.4
Resource Balance                     -55.1   -64.3   -45.7   -30.0   -19.8   -13.7    -9.6    -7.2    -4.9    -4.0    -3.3
Current Account Balance (incl grants)  -15.2    -0.1   -24.5   -22.4   -15.6   -11.5    -8.6    -6.5    -4.5    -3.9    -3.3
Current Account Balance (excl grants)    -43.1   -56.8   -42.0   -27.2   -18.3   -12.9    -9.0    -7.0    -4.9    -4.2    -3.6



ANNEX 1
Table 2. Armenia: Balance of Payments
(US$rm)
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Exports of G&NFS                    209.1   219.0   226.7   262.6   318.4   380.9   439.8   505.9   581.9   626.1   672.9
Imports of G&NFS                    453.2   470.3   570.4   579.7   602.0   624.0   651.0   677.7   707.7   739.8   772.5
o/w: Energy                        100.9   166.0   224.7   245.0   302.4   321.8   333.4   343.4   353.3   360.1   364.3
Net Factor Income                    -2.8    -6.8    -8.0   -12.3   -23.1   -30.5   -37.3   -44.1   -50.1   -54.7   -59.7
Net Transfers                       179.3   257.6   167.9    92.0    83.0    70.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0    60.0
Current Account Balance (incl grants)    -67.5    -0.5  -183.8  -237.4  -223.7  -203.7  -188.5  -155.8  -115.8  -108.3   -99.3
Current Account Balance (excl grants)   -190.8  -222.1  -315.7  -287.4  -261.7  -228.7  -198.5  -165.8  -125.8  -118.3  -109.3
Foreign Direct Investment             0.0      7.0     9.0    17.0    20.0    23.0    25.0    27.0    30.0    35.0    40.0                 w
Long Term Loans (net)                89.9    56.7   231.0   236.6   231.0   180.7   165.4   141.3   108.4   106.1   102.4
o/w: IBRD Net Disbursements          0.5      1.5     2.8     5.2      8.4    12.7    23.6    33.3    33.8    31.9    30.8
o/w: IDA Net Disbursements           0.0      3.1    79.5    45.0    58.7    47.7    35.4    25.5    23.3    12.8        6.6
o/w: IMF Net Purchases               0.0    23.6    23.6    -3.0    -5.9    -5.9    -5.9    -5.9    -5.9    -5.9    -5.9
Change in Reserves                  140.5   -28.5   -30.7    -4.9   -21.0       2.7      4.0     1.7     0.8      o.9     0.7
Reserves In Months of Imports         0.0      1.0     1.6     2.0      2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5     2.5
Memorandum Items:
Real Exchange Rate                  100.0   120.2    69.8    55.0    45.0    40.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0
Terms of Trade                      100.0   102.9    94.8   102.4   113.7   125.3   132.4   140.9   150.2   150.3   150.4
it Decrease = Appreciation



ANNEX 1
Table 3. Armenia: Key Exposure Indicators
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Total Debt Outstanding and         120.6   172.0   424.6   639.6   870.6  1051.3  1216.7  1358.0  1466.4  1572.6  1675.0
Disbursed (US$rm)
Net Disbursements (US$m)            89.9    56.7   231.0   236.6   231.0   180.7   165.4   141.3   108.4   106.1   102.4
Total Debt Service (TDS) (US$m)      2.8     6.9    55.5    45.3    47.3    67.6    77.1    81.4    80.7    83.1    88.2
Debt and Debt Service Indlcators (%)
Total Debt/GDP                      27.2    44.0    56.5    60.5    60.7    59.4    55.4    56.9    56.6    56.0    55.0
Total Debt/Exports                  57.7    78.5   185.7   240.0   270.8   273.4   274.6   266.8   250.7   250.0   247.9
Total Debt ServIce/Exports           1.3     3.2    24.3    17.0    14.7    17.6    17.4    16.0    13.8    13.2    13.0
Total Interest/GDP                   0.6     1.8      1.3     1.5     1.8     1.9     1.9     2.0      2.1     2.1     2.1
Total Interest/Exports               1.3     3.2     4.3      6.0     8.1     8.9     9.2     9.3      9.1     9.2     9.3
IBRD Exposure Indicators:
IBRD Debt/GDP                        0.1     0.5     0.6      0.9     1.3     1.8     2.5     3.7      4.7     5.5     6.1
IBRD Debt Service/Exports            0.0     0.0     0.1      0.2     0.3     0.6     0.9      1.2     1.6     2.2     2.8
IBRDDebtfrotalDebt                   0.4     1.2     1.1      1.6     2.1     3.0     4.5     6.5      8.3     9.8    11.0
IBRD Debt ServicerDS                 0.6     1.3     0.4      1.2     2.1     3.2     5.0     7.3    11.6    16.7    21.2



32
es3UUSUu11 UTUtpu%tSmfts3UU
4u P Qu  Us
PRIME MINISTER
OF THE REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Dear Mr. Preston
The attached letter of Development Policy outines the program of
macroeconomic stabilization and stuctural reform of the Republic of
Armenia. We request the world Bank to support this program with a
rehabilitation Credit of US$ 60 million.
The program of measures in the Letter is intended to achieve the rapid
resmption of economic growth within a sustainable macroeconomic
framework. If adjustments and corrective measures are required during the
course of the implementation of the program we will, where appropriate,
review those measures with the World Bank.
Yours sincerely,
Hrant Bagratia
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President,
Itrional Bank for
Reconstction and Development



33
ANNEX 2
Page I of 13
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The Government recognizes that Armenia faces a large adverse terms of trade shock
consequent on the breakup of the command economy of the Soviet Union. Serious structural
rigidities compounded by macroeconomic instability, a collapse in output and severe financial
constraints burden the economy.
2.   In this context, the Govermnent is firmly committed to accelerating the transition to a
market economy. Enhanced prospects for peace in the region since the spring of 1994 have
allowed the Government's attention to be redirected from management of a siege economy to
the implementation of more forward-looking policy. Within this framework, the economic
program currently underway aims to break inflationary expectations, promote a sustained
recovery in economic growth, and improve the living standards of the population. A
deepening of this program of stabilization and structural reform in 1995 is the only
alternative to continued stagnation.
3.    The Government's program outlined below contains a number of interdependent
elements. First, the attaimnent of macroeconomic stability so that producers and consumers
can make sound decisions without fear of major disruptions. Second, the stimulation of
competition in markets, which is essential to an efficient allocation of resources. The
promotion of open markets will require a variety of policies: the further liberalization of
prices as well as of the foreign exchange and trade regime; and the dismantling of the state
trading system. The removal of undue restrictions on the emerging private sector will also
be necessary. Third, the continued hardening of enterprise budget constraints will encourage
enterprises to respond to the new market forces. This shift in behavior will be induced
through privatization and reform of corporate governance mechanisms. The maintenance of
strict financial policy, particularly the elimination of subsidies to enterprises, and reform of
the banking sector will serve to support the changes at the enterprise level that are envisaged
under the program. Finally, the targeting of the social safety net must be made more
effective in order to protect the sections of the population most vulnerable in the structural
adjustment process.
Stabilization Program
4.    The principal objectives of the stabilization program are to (i) reduce monthly
inflation to 1 percent by end-1995; (ii) strengthen the gross reserve position of the central
bank to reach 1.6 months of imports by end-1995; and (iii) remove existing distortions



34
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 13
affecting interest and exchange rates. To achieve these objectives a combination of tight
monetary and fiscal policies, and trade and price liberalization are being implemented.
5.    In the fiscal area, the program will endeavor to reduce the fiscal deficit in 1995 to 12
percent of GDP on a commitments basis and to 15 percent on cash basis in 1995 (in 1994 a
deficit of 24 and 15 percent of GDP on a commitment and cash basis respectively is
expected). This will involve the Government in clearing its stock of domestic arrears and
remaining current on its payments in 1995. On the revenue side, tax exemptions will be
reduced, excise rates will be increased and collection efforts enhanced. On expenditures, the
subsidy on bread and other consumer goods will be removed rapidly. Other expenditures
will also be kept under tight control.
6.    Monetary policy will be designed to promote the role of interest rates in savings and
expenditure decisions by ensuring that rates remain positive in real terms. In pursuit of this
objective, the central bank's refinance rate will be determined in more frequent credit
auctions and directed refinancing was eliminated in January 1995, interest rate minima
imposed on bank deposits were removed in December 1994, and the Central Bank and the
Government ceased to impose charges on cash withdrawal at the same time. In parallel,
prudential regulation of the banking system will be enhanced and the supervisory capacity of
the central bank will be reinforced.
7.    On external policy, the exchange rate regime will remain flexible, but the multiplicity
of rates in the foreign exchange auction will also be largely eliminated by the abolition of the
cash withdrawal restrictions. In parallel, the surrender requirement will be phased out.
External financing on a concessional basis will be sought, and nonconcessional foreign
borrowing will be strictly limited.
Price Liberalization
8.    Extensive price liberalization was undertaken in .anuary 1992 and deepened in the last
quarter of 1994. Only a limited number of essential go-ds and services remain subject to
price regulation. This includes direct price controls on bread, urban transport, rents ins
state-owned housing communal services and domestic phone calls and profit/trading margin
controls on bread, natural gas and electricity.
9.    On December 1, 1994, cross subsidies for electricity to households and for irrigation
were eliminated and the price of bread was increased from 6 drams per kilogram to 66 as the
first of three steps to remove the bread price control by July 1, 1995 (see below). Also by
July 1, 1995 cross-subsidies on water and sewerage for households, and subsidies on garbage
removal, hot water, district heating and municipal electric-powered transport will be
removed. Remaining administered prices will be adjusted at a minimum on a quarterly basis,
to maintain their real value.



35
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 13
Energy Sector Pricing and Payments
10.   Electricity: Further to the removal of cross subsidies, average electricity tariffs will
be set to cover at least the average operational and maintenance (O&M) costs of electricity
supply by December 31, 1995. The determination of full O&M costs will be completed by
June 30, 1995, according to a methodology developed in consultation with the World Bank.
In the longer term, tariffs will be set to recover full costs (including the cost of capital).
11.   As electricity supply constraints diminish, Armenergo will increase the share of
electricity that is being supplied through market mechanisms to 50-70 percent of total supply
by April 1, 1995. Ongoing corporatization of Armenergo will be completed by end 1995.
Other electricity sub-sector commercial entities will also be corporatized.
12.   Payment Compliance: The Goverrnent recognizes that raising electrical tariffs for
residential customers will only result in higher levels of nonpayment without measures to
strengthen compliance. Armenergo has increased its collection efforts and has instituted a
system of prepayment for electricity. However, progress in this area has been slowed by
several factors, including the unreliability of service due to shortages of fuel and weaknesses
in the legal framework concerning diversions of electrical power. A draft law covering this
issue is being prepared, and submission to Parliament is expected by July 1, 1995. In
addition, Armenergo will reduce technical and commercial losses by at least 30 percent by
end-1995 by, inter alia, improved billing and collection efforts.
Reform of the External Trade Regime
13.   Most regulatory restrictions to international trade have been removed and the
Govermnent is committed to achieve an open trade regime which will optimize domestic
resource allocation and contribute to a competitive environment. The Government is
committed to bind its open trade regime within the framework of the World Trade
Organization and through the gradual elimination of clearing trade as contractual obligations
and trading sanctions allow.
14.  Interstate Clearing Arrangements: Due to external financing constraints and the
trading sanctions imposed on Armenia, interstate clearing agreements with key energy
suppliers have been necessary to avoid total economic collapse. With the growth of private
trade initiatives despite the blockade, the Government has been in a position during 1994 to
rely to a lesser extent on clearing arrangements to meet critical import requirements. Further
improvements in external financing availability will lead to a smaller role for clearing and its
eventual elimination. Starting January I, 1995, imports under clearing arrangements have
been limited to natural gas, crude oil and mazout.



36
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 13
15.   The procurement system of state tasks used for clearing trade was abolished on
January 1, 1995. Armcontract will not engage in subsidized procurement and will follow
competitive principles.
16.  The agencies currently under the supervision of the Ministry of Material Resources
will be fully corporatized and plans for their privatization will have been made by July 1,
1995.
17.   Export Regime: The Government has relaxed many restrictions introduced during
the second half of 1993 at the time of the disintegration of the old ruble area and the
introduction of the dram under severe macroeconomic imbalances. In parallel with improved
tax collection measures introduced on January 1, 1995, the Government eliminated ali trade
restrictions (with the exception of those imposed for health, security, cultural, or
environmental reasons, or those that are required by virtue of an agreement with a trading
partner country). More specifically, the following restrictions have been eliminated: (i) 25%
mandatory prepayment for private sector exports; (ii) export licensing; (iii) export tax on
goods invoiced below reference prices (i.e. the use of minimum reference prices will be
discontinued), except for metals and scrap metal, for which reference prices will be abolished
by end-1995; and (iv) all prohibitions affecting inter-enterprise barter transactions.
18.  Import Regime: A new tariff schedule was approved on October 26, 1994 (effective
January 1, 1995), with four possible duty rates of 0, l0, 30 and 50 percent. Under this
revised schedule, about 95% of current non-CIS imports would be subject to the 10 percent
or less duty rate. Only a few "luxury" goods are subject to rates of 30 or 50 percent, and
the Government is committed not to increase the number of goods subject to these rates and
not to introduce any additional import restrictions. All imports from CIS countries are
exempt from customs tariffs. Effective January 1, 1995, excise taxes on imports were raised
so that they are brought in line with excises on similar domestic goods.
Foreign Exchange Market
19.   Since mid-February 1994, the interbank auction market has determined the exchange
rate of the dram. The surrender requirement on foreign exchange earnings by exporters was
reduceo to 30 percent (from 50 percent) on January 1, 1995. This requirement will be
eliminated altogether by July 1, 1995. The surrendered foreign currency is exchanged at the
prevailing interbank (market) rate. All charges on cash withdrawals imposed by the
Government and the Central Bank of Armenia (CBA) were eliminated on December 1, 1994;
the divergence between cash and noncash exchange rates is thereby expected to largely
disappear.



37
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 13
Private Enterprise Development
20.   Macroeconomic instability, the collapse in markets, shortage of energy and other
inputs and the trade blockade have constrained the development of the private sector. Once
the blockade is lifted, other constraints on business will become important, in particular the
lack of investment resources, shortage of business skills, and the inadequacy of the enabling
environment for private sector growth, including basic commercial law and tax and
accounting systems. The Government is therefore taking steps to address constraints to
private sector development, and is creating an environment favorable to private business,
with equal treatmnent of state and private enterprises.
21.   Land and Commercial Space: Considerable unused building capacity exists in
Armenia. The Government will ensure that plots and commercial space are accessible to
new enterprises by encouraging enterprises with majority state participation to sell off or
lease underutilized buildings and associated commercial space. By April 1, 1995, the
Government intends to submit to Parliament a new land code which will define ownership,
leasehold and resale/inheritance rights to urban as well as rural land, and will allow the
privatization of industrial and commercial land. The Government also intends to develop the
system for land registration and titling, beyond the temporary titles now available for rural
land.
22.   Corporate Regulations: To encourage entry of new enterprises, the Government will
maintain procedures for rapid registration and will restrict the need for licensing of activities
to those required in the public interest, such as for health, environmental and security
purposes. In order to promote investment and ..aproved corporate governance the
Govermnent intends to define laws and regulations concerning inter alia incorporation,
capitalization, governance and closure of companies. To achieve this, a revised joint-stock
company law has been submitted to Parliament. In order to provide increased security for
contracts (in particular bank lending), a law on collateral has also been submitted to
Parliament; in order to facilitate closure, a bankruptcy law has also been submitted. The
Government also intends to submit to Parliament by July 1, 1995, an anti-monopoly law
designed to control abuse of dominant market positions and restrictive trade practices.
23.   Taxation and Accounting Systems: The Government recognizes the need to
establish a stable and equitable tax regime for business. The effect of inflation in distorting
tax liabilities will be carefully assessed and appropriate action will be taken to prevent
inflated tax assessments. The Government intends to amend enterprise accounting
methodology to reconcile it with the internationally accepted accounting principles.
24.   Foreign Investment: The operation of the Foreign Investment Law, adopted in 1994,
will be monitored to ensure that it provides appropriate incentives, and in particular to ensure
that it is in line with the objective of a streamlined and equitable tax regime and compatible
with local investment incentives.



38
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 13
25.   State Procurement: In order that state procurement practices should not impede
private sector development, all state purchases above US$ 50,000 will be offered for
competitive tender beginning February 1, 1995. This will apply to both domestic products
and imports. The World Bank Institutional Development Fund will provide technical
assistance on a grant basis to design the necessary legal and institutional framework.
Privatization
26.   The Government recognizes the critical importance of the transfer of state-owned
assets into the private sector and is therefore committed to the acceleration of the
privatization program. Between June 1994 and February 1995, the Government privatized
more than 300 small enterprises (defined as sales agreements having been signed), with over
1000 additional small enterprises in the pipeline (this excludes over 300 small enterprises
which were privatized in 1991-1992 before the Privatization law was passed and the 1994
Program was approved). The Government intends to complete the privatization of all small
enterprises (including leased enterprises) by mid-1996, according to the following schedule:
By July 1, 1995                1000 small enterprises
By January 1, 1996             3000 small enterprises
By mid-1996                    all remaining small enterprises
27.   To complete privatization of all small enterprises by mid-1996, all remaining small
enterprises not yet in the pipeline will be approved by July 1, 1995. Bread shops will be
approved for inclusion in the small scale privatization program to allow privatization to take
place after full liberalization of bread prices.
28.   With respect to medium and large enterprises, the Government will implemnent a mass
privatization program. The Privatization Program approved in January 1994 includes
approximately 900 medium and large enterprises and 600 unfinished construction sites; 100
percent of the shares in these enterpnses and all the construction sites will be offered for sale
during 1995. Currently, approximately 1100 medium and large enterprises are being
converted into joint stock companies and 20% of the shares are being distributed to the
employees free of charge. This process is expected to be completed by April 1, 1995. Most
of the enterprises undergoing he 20% free distribution are included in the 1994 Privatization
Program. In parallel with the bread price liberalization, bakeries and flour mills will be
added to the Privatization Program.
29.   The first auction for medium and large scale privatization is expected to begin by
March 1, 1995. In order to begin the first auction by March 1, 1995, the Government will
(i) issue all decrees and regulations necessary; (ii) establish auction procedures which permit
maximum price flexibility; (iii) select and prepare at least 10 medium and large enterprises
for the fir auction, including elaboration of standard information on each enterprise;



39
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 13
(iv) establish auction mechanisms, including setting up a bidding network and regional bid
centers as necessary; and (v) prepare a voucher cancellation mechanism. The distribution of
vouchers should be completed by February 15, 1995 in order to ensure the entire population
can participate in the first round of privatization auctions. In order to meet the above
privatization targets, the Govermnent will make available necessary resources to the
Privatization Board and the Privatization Commission.
30.   According to the Privatization Law, enterprises which may be attractive candidates for
large strategic investors (domestic or foreign) can be separated out from the auction program,
and a competitive tender can be held for the majority shareholding. The Privatization
Commission will select and prepare at least ten enterprises for such a tender to begin by July
1, 1995.
31.   A massive public relations and public awareness campaign has been launched. This
campaign includes information about the pnvatization program and voucher distribution. The
campaign informs the population what to do with their vouchers and provides information on
the enterprises being privatized. Technical assistance is being provided to support the
immediate camnaign and the subsequent development of a Privatization Information Center.
32.   The Investment Fund Decree has been passed, and a transparent licensing process has
been adopted. Creation of investment funds will be encouraged as a means of concentrating
share ownership as investment funds can own up to 40% of the shares in an enterprise;
however, the Government will not itself participate in the formation, provision of capital, or
management of such funds.
33.   Privatization, as well as continued advances in the private sector and the growth of
the financial sector will all contribute to the development of capital markets in Armenia.
Trading of shares of privatized companies will be facilitated through the creation of
secondary markets. To effectuate trading, the Government will decide on the form of shares
(paper versus computer/dematerialized) and then design and implement a share registry
system by April 1, 1995. In addition, a 1nit in the Ministry of Finance has been established
to be responsible for regulating and supervising the capital markets.
34.   The 1996 Privatization Program, which will be submitted to the Parliament for
approval by September 1995, will contimne to transfer state owned enterprises to the private
sector. The Govermnent plans to contimue the corporatization process for all enterprises
remaining in the state sector. Privatization of enterprises is expected to be completed by the
end of 1997. A short list of enterprises of a strategic nature is expected to be excluded from
privatization.
35.   Asset sales: The process of corporatization of a public enterprise frees that enterprise
from the need to seek Government permission to sell any of its assets. This freedom is
expected to accelerate the process of asset spin-off with resulting benefits for enterprise



40
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 13
liquidity and for private sector development. In order for newly-corporatized enterprises to
be fully aware of this freedom, a public announcement will be made to this effect. Those
enterprises in the 1994 Privatization Program cannot currently sell assets; by July 1, 1995 the
Government will submit to Parliament legislation to permit the sale of assets by enterprises
included in the Privatization Program.
Financial Discipline
36. The Government recognizes the importance of strengthening financial discipline
throughout the economy and the need to prevent an excessive buildup of arrears within the
enterprise and banking sectors in the course of carrying out the macroeconomic program. It
is also aware of the buildup of such a chain of arrears through 1994, involving the
Government itself, industry and the energy complex. This chain has arisen partly as a result
of the clearing arrangements instituted to preserve energy security.
37. As a first step, the Government has committed to clear its own arrears through the
first three quarters of 1995. In addition, it will ensure that this comprises during the initial
stage, a general arrears-clearing exercise without the injection of additional resources. A
task force has been set up in the Ministry of Finance (in close collaboration with the Central
Bank) to coordinate this exercise, building on experience already gained in organizing
simultaneous voluntary settlement of chains of arrears between enterprises. Firms receiving
payments through the settlement of Government arrears will be informed of their legal
obligations to eliminate overdue payables and be required to inform the task force of their
actions in this respect; creditors of such firms will also be informed by the task force when
payment of Government arrears has been made. This will send a strong signal to the
enterprise sector that firms are responsible for meeting their payment obligations. At the
same time it will enable a major part of the debt chain to be extinguished, laying the ground
for responsible credit practices as pricing and procurement move further towards a market
basis.
38. A standing committee will be created in the Central Bank by July 1, 1995, charged
with monitoring the level and structure of all payables and receivables and their overdue
portions for the fifty largest enterprises or concerns in the country. This will be integrated
with a similar reporting system covering the fifty firms with the largest overdue obligations
to the banking system. A monthly report will provide the basis for an early warming system
against the systemic buildup of arrears. Building on the experience gained in other
transition countries in the early stages of stabilization, banks will be discouraged from new
lending to clients accumulating arrears, either directly or through requiring one hundred
percent reserves against such loans. This is seen as an interim step towards normalizing
financial relationships, which can only be fully realized following a period of macroeconomic
stability and the normalization of trading relationships.



4].
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 13
39.   Many enterprises are in serious difficulties as indicated by low capacity utilization and
increased arrears. The Govenment plans to utilize the above early warning system by
placing ten critical loss-making enterprises by August 1, 1995 in a restructuring program in
order to demonstrate in practical terms an approach to containing their losses while at the
same time developing a set of recommendations on how their problems can best be
addressed. A time-bound program would be developed in which the enterprise would have
to demonstrate viability or face liquidation. Restructuring measures would include divesting
under-utilized assets, developing new marketing strategies, taking steps to reduce excessive
levels of accounts receivable, improving management control by organizational changes, etc.
This type of restructuring would not involve new investment, but rather, would prepare the
enterprises for privatization. Technical assistance would be sought in order to work with
selected enterprises to develop and implement these measures. The Government will appoint
an administrator to oversee the restructuring process in each enterprise.
40.   Enterprises in the program would not have access to new unsecured credit from banks
or from suppliers; at the same time, debt service payments by those enterprises would be
frozen. Each enterprise would undertake a debt workout negotiation with its creditors under
the supervision of its administrator. The Goverunent recognizes that enterprise restructuring
and debt workouts may require budgetary transfers, but will only make such transfers within
a restructuring program for a given enterprise and within the constraint of its overall fiscal
objectives.
Financial Sector
41.   The Govemment and the CBA recognize that a stable, market-based financial sector,
in particular the banking sector, will be critical to the mobilization and efficient allocation of
funds, which will in turn be essential to the growth of the economy. To this end, a number
of steps have been taken to strengthen the banking sector and to allow more market-driven
decision making. In particular, the CBA has been using credit auctions to allocate credit
since July 1994 and since January 1, 1995, all refinance credit from the CBA has been
allocated by auction. To ensure that this credit does not go to the riskiest banks (who would
be willing to pay higher rates, as they would have no alternative source of financing), the
CBA has introduced a screening procedure to prevent the participation of financially
distressed banks. In addition, the CBA has removed interest rate minima on loans and
deposits. The Government and the CBA also removed cash withdrawal charges in
December, 1994.
42.   The legal framework for the financial sector is also being strengthened. In 1993, the
Law on Banking and the Law on Central Bank Activities were passed. Prudential regulation
is also being improved. Reserve requirements on local currency deposits were increased to
15% of deposits in May 1994; reserve requirements on foreign currency deposits were
increased to 15% in October 1994. The one exception is the Savings Bank, which will have



42
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 13
until July 1, 1995 to reach the 15% reserve requirement. In addition, in May 1994, the
CBA issued a number of regulatory standards on capital to assets, liabilities, deposits and
limits on borrower concentration. The CBA will continue the development of prudential
regulations including those regarding aggregate limits on large exposures and foreign
exchange open positions. In addition, the CBA has introduced regulations restricting the
granting of credit by banks to their shareholders and will continue strengthening the
regulatory framework in this area. These regulatory reforms will be carried out in
consultation with the BME and the World Bank.
43.   The Governent and CBA are also aware that the problems in the enterprise sector,
due in great part to difficulties in obtaining inputs, especially power, have led to long delays
in payments to creditors, including banks. More than 20% of loans held by Armenian banks
are currently overdue. To help limit further overdue loans, the CBA is undertaking a
complete portfolio review of all the banks. This review is expected to be completed by May
1, 1995. Information from this audit will be used to identify the 50 largest overdue
borrowers.
44.  To further limit the negative effects of potential losses from bad loans, the levels of
statutory capital are being phased in. On July 1, 1994, the minimum capital was raised to
USD 15,000 equivalent; on October 1, 1994, the level was increased to USD 40,000; on
January 1, 1995, the required level was raised to USD 70,000; and by April 1, 1995,
minimum capital must equal USD 100,000 equivalent. The CBA is requiring that loans more
than 180 days overdue should be written off against the reserve fund of the bank in question.
The CBA is also requiring the banks to increase the amount of the reserve fund for bad loans
to 100% of statutory capital by January 1, 1996.
45.   The Central Bank of Armenia has recognized that bank accounting and reporting
formats used during the Soviet period do not accurately reflect the financial status of the
banks. Effective October 1, 1994 the CBA introduced modified reporting formats. It is
planning, with IMF technical assistance, to introduce a new Central Bank chart of accounts,
that will conform with international standards. Subsequently, new commercial bank financial
statements, consistent with international standards will be introduced.
Social Assistance
46.   The Government recognizes that generalized consumer subsidies are costly, and are
not an effective means of targeting assistance to the most needy. The Government increased
the administered price of bread from 6 dram per kilogram to 66 dram as of December 1,
1994, and will adjust the price further on April 1, 1995, and liberalize fully the price of
bread by July 1, 1995. In addition, the Government raised the price charged to residential
users of electricity on December 1, 1994. The Govermnent is compensating the poor who



43
ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 13
are most affected by the reduction and subsequent removal of the bread subsidy and by the
increase in the price of electricity.
47.  In the short term this will rely on targeting compensation consistent with fiscal
constraints through existing systems of cash transfer which reflect categories of the most
needy: children, the unemployed, and pensioners dependent on administered incomes.
Recognizing the correlation between the number of dependents (particularly children) and
poverty, the government increased child allowances as of December 1, 1994. Similarly, the
unemployment benefit was increased as of December 1, 1994. However, many of those
registered as unemployed have exceeded the eligibility period for unemployment benefit and
therefore constitute a particularly vulnerable group. The Government will therefore target
humanitarian aid more effectively to those officially registered as unemployed but not in
receipt of unemployment benefit. For this purpose, the free provision of essential foodstuffs
to this group commenced on December 15, 1994. By April 1, 1995, the Government will
submit legislation to Parliament extending bread compensation directly to this category of the
unemployed to replace the food program. Additionally, the Govermnent is compensating
pensioners for the increased cost of bread and electricity as of December 1, 1994. Finally,
the Governnent increased wages to lower-paid emnployees in the budgetary sphere to
compensate for the increased cost of bread and electricity as of December 1, 1994.
48.   The Government has already initiated a pilot program to identify the most vulnerable-
-the Paros (beacon) program. In the medium term, the Government intends to implement a
system of targeting cash benefits based on needs, utilizing the experience gained with the
Paros program for targeting humanitarian assistance. The Government will seek fnancing
for the second phase of the Paros program.
49.  In order to provide a sound basis for targeting social benefits, he Government has
initiated a pilot household survey based on a nationally representative, random sample.
Under a component of the Armenian Social Investment Fund (SIF), a national integrated
household survey, utilizing the pilot survey experience, will be conducted.
50. The Government is concerned that the current pension system is neither cost-effective,
equitable, nor appropriate for Armenia's emerging market economy. In the longer term, the
Govermnent envisions a public pension system which will ensure a minimum standard for
retirees along with the development of privately managed and financed, earnings-related
retirement insurance plans. As a transitional step towards this goal, the Governent intends
to introduce a pension reform.
51.   The pension reform consists of increasing the retirement age, changing the nature of
the benefit formulae, breaking the current link between the minimum wage and the pension
system, and reducing special exemptions and privileges. In the medium term, the
Government intends to reduce or eliminate benefits to pensioners who continue to work as
part of its intention to move towards means-test transfers.



44
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 13
52.   The Government will submit draft legislation on the pension reform to Parliament by
February 1, 1995. This draft legislation provides that the retirement age will be increased by
six months for men and by one year for women on 1 January 1996, and will be subsequently
increased annually by the same amounts until a retirement age of 65 years for both men and
women is reached. The benefit formulae (currently earnings-based) will be transformed and
will be based on the social pension (which is paid to those retirees who lack any recorded
work tenure), with small increments based on years worked. The length-of-service additions
will be structured to generate significant cost savings over current pension expenditure.
Length of service requirements for old-age, early and certain privileged retirements will be
increased by 5 years for both men and women in phase with the increases in the retirement
age. Additionally, early retirees will be subject to a minimumn age of 55 for both men and
women before benefit is paid.
53.   The Government recognizes the important role of humanitarian aid, the diaspora, and
the informal sector in supplementing wage income, and intends to strengthen the capacity for
means-testing benefit entitlements in the medium term.
Labor Market
54.   The Government recognizes that a free labor market is essential for economic growth,
and to this end, removed the propiska (registration) requirement for labor force participants
by a decree issued in October 1993. The Government recognizes that labor mobility will be
further stimulated by the development of a private housing market. To this end, housing
privatization has been underway since September 1993 and about 50% of the housing stock
has now been privatized; the process is expected to have been completed by end 1995. In
addition, a law on condominiums will be submitted to Parliament by July 1, 1995.
55.   The Govermnent recognizes the overall tight fiscal constraints, and in particular, the
difficult fiscal situation of the pension and employment fumd (PEF), along with a low level of
unemployment benefit. The Government intends to review the expenditures of the PEF on
unemployment benefits and to reduce or curtail expenditure on so-called "job creation'
activities. The Government intends to modernize and equip the employment service with
support from the Institution Building Loan. The Governent will review the experience of
public works in other countries and also in the context of the SIF.
56.    In the longer mn, the Government hopes to facilitate enterprise and labor market
adjusunent by reducing the level of payroll tax, recognizing that it creates a disincentive to
formal sector employment and burdens enterprises. The Government also intends to
introduce legislation in the medium term to reduce the amount of severance pay required
from enterprises.



45
ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 13
Monitoring
57.   A task force has been established to monitor the timely implementation of the
measures described in the Letter. This task force will prepare a monthly report for
submission to the Government and to the World Bank.



ARMENIA REHABILITATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                  ANNEX 3
Page I of 8
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Between Feb. 2, 1995
____________________________  :as or Feb. 1, 1995                        and  end-1995
A. ACHEVING MACROECONOMIC STABILITY                                        ___
To create a stable macroeconomic    Monthly rate of inflation was brought  In accordance with STF program,
environment conducive to economic   down from 46 percent in the first quarter  budget deficit to be restricted to 12
growth.                             of 1994 to 3 percent in the third quarter   percent of GDP in 1995 through cuts in
due to the tightening of monetary and  expenditures (particularly subsidies)
fiscal policy and the output decline has    and through tax reforms. Targets for
levelled off.                         monetary aggregates have been agreed,
and interest rates to be market-
Agreement reached with the IMF on a   determined. Agreement on Standby
stabilization program. First purchase  Arrangement with WIP expected in
under STF approved on December 14,     mid-1995.
1994.
* Prior Action for IMF STF
1/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition



ARMENIA REHIABILITATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                      ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
OBJECTIVES                          CURRENT STATUS                         MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
r                                                    Between Feb. 2, 1995
as of Feb. 1, 1995                           and end-1995
B. PROMOTING THE DEVELOPMENT OF MARKETS AND INCREASING THEIR EFFICIENCY
Price Liberalzation
To liberalize all prices, except for a  Price controls remain on only a few    The price of bread will be fully liberalized.
few natural monopolies. Regulated     goods and services.
prices to be set so as to fully recover                                        Cross-subsidies on water and sewerage for
the cost of providing the good.       The price of bread was increased I 1-    households, and subsidies on garbage
fold.*                                  removal, district heating, municipal electric
transport, and hot water, will be removed.
Cross subsidies for electricity to
households and for irrigation were      Electricity tariffs will be set to cover at least
eliminated.*                            operations and maintenance costs.
*  Prior Action for IDO  STF
I/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition



ARMENIA REHABILITATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                     ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
OBJECTIVES                          CURRENT STATUS                        MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Betweein Feb. 2, 1995
as of Feb. 1, 1995                          and end-1995
Reform of the external regime
To create a policy environment that  Most regulatory obstacles to exports have  Minimum reference prices for exports will be
does not discriminate against exporters   ben removed and the import tariff is low    abolished.
and does not inhibit competition from  and uniform. Interstate barter, however,
imports.                              remains important.                     Interstate barter will be phased out as the
availability of import financing improves.
Excise taxes on imports and on domestic
production were equalized*              State procurement for the purposes of
interstate barter will be on a competitive
The scope of interstate barter through  basis.
clearing will be limited to essential
energy imports.1/                       Abolition of surrender requirement.
Most remaining export restrictions were
removed. 1co
The state task procurement system has
been abolished.
The surrender requirement was reduced
from 50 to 30 percent of net export
proceeds.                                                                          l
Prior Action for IMF STF
f Pre-Board Condition
f Effectiveness Condition



ARMENIA REHABILUTATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                  ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                       MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
j -s _         f Feb_ 1, ~             j           Between Feb. 2, 1995
|a- -  _ss of F'eb. 1 1995                 and end-1995
Financial Sector Reform
To strengthen the capacity of the    Many new banks have been created since  Guidelines for aggregate 1imits on large
banking system to mobilize financial  1991. The Central Bank of Armenia has  exposures, lending to shareholders, and
savings and allocate credit to efficient   been strengthening its capacities during    foreign exchange exposure will be deve!oped.
users.                               1994. Bank supervision and prudential
regulation have been improving, but    Portfolio reviews of the banks will be
progress remains fragile. Markets have    completed.
been playing an increasing role in credit
allocation and the determination of    Minimum statutory capital for banks will be
interest rates. Interest rates have become  further increased.
highly positive in real terms.
Interest rate minima on bank deposits
have been eliminated.*
Charges imposed by the authorities on
cash withdrawals from the banks have
been abolished.*
Bank reserve requirements were
increased*
All refinance credit will be allocated by
credit auctions.
Directed credit was eliminated.
Minimum statutory capital for banks was
increased.
* Prior Action for IMP STF
1/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition



ARMENIA REHABILITATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                 ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8
OBJECTIVES                        CURRENT STATUS                       MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Between Feb. 2 1995
as of Feb. 1, 1995                         and end-1995
The Regulatory Framework for
Private Sector Development
To foster the growth of the private  Private enterprises have emerged rapidly,  A new land code will clarify property rights
sector.                             but are still constrained by depressed  and facilitate the development of land
economic activity, input shortages, and    mnarkets.
inappropriate policy.
The system of land registration and titling will
Public enterprises have been advised that  be developed.
the process of corporatization allows
asset sale without Government         An anti-monopoly law will provide for control
permission. I/                        of abuse of dominant market positions.
A new company law has been submitted    Tax policy will be comprehensively reviewed
to Parliament..                       to reconcile the objectives of revenue                         U'
mobilization and the creation of an
State procurement is being conducted on   appropriate incentives framework.
a competitive basis.
Enterprise accounting methodology will be
amended in line with internationally accepted
standards.
Labor mobility will be facilitated by the
completion of housing privatizadon, and the
strengthening of the legal framework relating
to maintenance and sale of housing.
* Prior Action for IhP STP
1/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition



Page 6 ua8 6
OBJECTrVES                        CURRENT STATUS               |  MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
_ I        Between Feb. 2,1995
as of Feb. 1, 1995                     and end-199S
C. HARDENING ENTERPRISE BUDGET CONSTRAINTS
To ensure that economic agents
respond appropriately to market
signals, and are subject to the
discipline imposed by market forces
and competition.                                                         l
Privatization
To accelerate the transfer of ownership  The basic legal and institutional  Small-scale privatization will
of productive assets from the state to    framework for privatization has been  accelerate and mass privatization will
private owners who will be more      largely established. Land privatization   commence.2/ Implementation of this
responsive to market signals. This   and some small scale privatization took   phase of privatization will involve sale
will also eliminate the pressure on the    place in 1991/2. After a long delay  of 35 percent of state-owned assets
government to bail out loss-making   small scale privatization has restarted.    during 1995.                                             -
enterprises.                         Preparations for medium- to large-scale
privatization are accelerating.       The 1996 privatization program will
be adopted.
A massive privatization public relations
campaign was launched.                Regulation and institution-building for
capital market development will be
Privatization sales agreements for about  strengthened.
300 small scale enterprises have been
signed.-/                             1100 medium- and large-scale
enterprises will be corporatized and 20
Auction regulations for medium- to    percent of their shares distributed to
large-scale privatization have been   employees.
adopted. 1/
* Prior Action for IMF STF
1/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition



ARMENIA REHABILITATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                     ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 8
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Between Feb. 2, 195
as of Feb. 1, 1995                      and end-l99S
Financial Discipline and Restructuring
To tighten fmancial discipline in     Budget subsidies to enterprises have  The authorities will monitor arrears of
enterprises that have not yet bcen    been largely eliminated, monetary     the fifty largest enterprises
privatized and to facilitate privatization   policy has been tightened, and credit    continuously.
or liquidation of loss-makers.        allocation is increasingly market-based.
However, the emergence of enterprise    Arrears-clearing will allow
arrears and weak enforceability of    identification of major loss-makers;
creditors' rights are undermining     ten such firms will be placed in a
financial discipline.                 restructuring program
A task force to coordinate an arrears-    Banks will be discouraged from new
clearing exercise has been            lending to borrowers with large                                  Ln
established. 1/                       arrears.
Payments indiscipline emanating from
the energy sector will be reduced by
improved collections by the electricity
"tility and greater reliance on market
mechanisms in the allocation of
electricity.
* Prior Action for IMF STF
1/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition



ARMENIA REHABILITATION CREDIT POLICY MATRIX                                                     ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 8
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                    MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
Between Feb. 2,1995
as of Feb. 1, 1995                      and end41995
D. ENSURING A MINIMUM LEVEL OF SOCIAL PROTECTION FOR THE POOREST
To ensure the protection of the most  The provision of social benefits and  Cash benefits in compensation for
vulnerable groups in the adjustment   humanitarian aid is weakly targeted.  administered price increases will he
process and beyond.                                                         paid to those unemployed no longer
Increases in the administered prices of   eligible for unemployment benefit.
bread and electricity for households
necessitated increased benefits and aid    Labor-intensive public works will be
to the most vulnerable groups. Child  undertaken with financing from a
allowances have been increased; bread    Social Investment Fund.
compensation has been made available
to those receiving unemployment       A household survey will be undertaken
benefit: the free provision of essential   in order to allow the development of a
foodstuffs to those officially registered    more means-tested benefits system.                         n
as unemployed but not in receipt of                                                                    w
unemployment benefit has commenced;
lower-paid employees in the budgetary
sphere and pensioners have been
compensated for the increased cost of
bread and electricity.
A new pension law has been submitted
to Parliament providing for a phased
increase in the retirement age,
delinking of pensions from the
minimum wage, and a flatter pension
structure. .I
* Prior Action for IMF STF
1/ Pre-Board Condition
2/ Effectiveness Condition






