CREDIT NUMBER            AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Rehabilitation Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2     AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4 Pf1C R           , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
January 30, 1995 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve economic stabilization
and systemic reforms of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in
the financing of urgently needed imports and services required
during such execution; and
(B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports that may be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
(b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the


﻿-2-
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional term has the following meaning, namely,
that "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-one million five hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 41,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as.of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year


﻿- 3 -
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,


﻿- 4 -
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Ministry of Economy is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, and
for the preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan, and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed action to be taken after the
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under
the Program.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 5 -
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after        the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure   that  such  records and  accounts   are
included in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the first privatization auction for large and medium-
size enterprises (defined as: (i) any manufacturing enterprise; (ii)
commercial service enterprises with more than 50 employees; and
(iii) retail, wholesale and warehouse enterprises with more than 25
employees) shall commence.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as


﻿-7-
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
I1-DEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
B y /4IA -L4Vk4ftI P44
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BY/S 8IL Ak b441kt V
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by
notice to the Borrower:
Group       Sub-croLp         Description of Items
112               -           Alcoholic beverages
121               -           Tobacco,    unmanufactured,
tobacco refuse
122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or   not   containing  tobacco
substitutes)
525               -           Radioactive   and   associated
materials
667               -           Pearls,  precious  and   semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
718           718.7           Nuclear  reactors, and parts
thereof,     fuel    elements
(cartridges),   non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors
728.43            -           Tobacco processing machinery


﻿- 10 -
Group       Sub-group        Description of Items
897           897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971               -          Gold, non-monetary   excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 12,450,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before such date but after
October 31, 1994;
(d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals  for  expenditures  under  contracts   for  the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$1,000,000 may be permitted by the Association upon the basis of
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
112.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency
widely used in international trade and specified in the
bidding documents."


﻿- 12 -
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
(d)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the. request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Section, the
Association's prior approval will be required for: (i) the first
extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension
exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the
bid validity period.
(e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
paragraph, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on the internationally required standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from
suppliers  from  at  least   two  countries, except   that  direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international


﻿- 13 -
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission of the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission of the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof,
such documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FO  ECRETJ


