Docwnent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 106174 /AG Type:  (PCR)                    ReportNo. 10617
wECKERLE, / X31708 / T9 102/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FIFTH AND SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECTS
(CREDITS 938-MAG AND 1391-MAG)
MAY 11, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         =      African Development Bank
AF3IN       =      Africa III Department, Infrastructure Division,
World Bank
EDF         =      European Development Fund
ERR         =      Economic Rate of Return
IDA         =      International Development Association
IFAD        =      International Fund for Agicultural Development
LNTPB       =      National Soils Laboratory (Laboratoire National des
Travaux Publics et des B;timents
GOM         =      Government of Madagascar
MPW         =      Ministry of Public Works
MTST        =      Ministry of Transports, Supplies and Tourism
NSL         =      National Soils Laboratory
PCR         =      Project Completion Report
RN          =      National Road (Route Nationale)
SAR         =      Staff Appraisal Report
SDC         =      Swiss Development Cooperation Agency
VOC         =      Vehicle Operating Costs
U.K.               United Kingdom



FOR OFFcIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Ofrctot-ewal
Op.atine EvaIua"Wn
May 11, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT.:    Project Completion Report on the Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Fifth and Sixth Highwa Projects (Credits 938-MAG and 1391-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Democratic Republic of Madagascar Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects (Credits 938-MAG and 1391-MAG)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.



FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIFTH AND SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECTS
(CREDITS 938 NAG - 1391 MAG)
Table of Contents
PREFACE....               ..
EVSLUTIONM           ....U.M.A........... . . . . . . ii
PART Is  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ... . . . . .   .  1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  . .  .  . .  .  .  .    1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . .  . .. . . 2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Project Implementation  .            . . . . .*. . . . . . . 5
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Bank Performance  . . . . . ............... .                  9
Borrower Performance  . ......... *                ....... . 10
Project Relationship      . .. . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . 10
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . .   . ... .. .  . 11
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . 12
A.   Comments on Parts I and III of PCR . . . . . . . . . . 12
B.   Sixth Highway Project: Technical and Financial Results 15
C.   General Observations . . . . . . . . . . .# . . . . . . 20
Annex   I:  Results by Category . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Annex  II:  Statement of disbursements against SF4-MAG
and 1391-HAG  . . . . . . . . .. . . .* . . ... 28
Annex III:  Schedule of disbursements against SF4-MAG
and 1391-MAG  . . .............. .               30
Annex  IV:  Indicative Exchange Rates for  Project Period  . 32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
(A) FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Project Timetable . .  . . . . . . . .  . .   .  .  . . . . . .  37
Credit Disbursements  . . . . . ... . .....38
Project Implementation  . . . . . . .  . ........ .  39
Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 42
Status of Loan Covenants   9 9*999 .    ....... . .....  43
Use of Bank Resources     . . .. . . . . . . . . .....  44
Annex. Project Costs and Financing by Category. . . . . . . 45
(B) SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Credit Disbursements           .................  50
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 51
Project Cost and Financing                       . . . . 52
Project  Results  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 55
Status of Loan Covenants   9.9       . ..9..            56
Use of Bank Resources   .                        . . . . 57
Annex  (i): Road Length Maintained (Fifth and Sixth
Projects)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  58
An-ax (ii)s Economic Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . 59



. i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FIFTH AND SIXTiH HIGHWAY PROJECTS
(CREDITS 938-HAG M     L t-%AG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects in Madagascar for which Credits 938 MAG - 1391 MAG in the amounts of
US$24 million and US$45 million respectively, were approved on June 21, 1979 and
June 23, 1983. Credit 938 MAG was fully disbursed in 1986, close to four years
behind schedule. Credit 1391 MAG was also fully disbursed, albeit with a delay
of over two years by mid-1990. The dates of last disbursement were June 6, 1986
and March 1, 1990, respectively.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division of Country Department
III of the Africa Regional Office. On March 25, 1991 the Bank sent the Borrower
Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II by May 25, 1991. It was
received in late June 1991.
Preparation of this PCR was based on the Staff Appraisal Reports, the
Credit Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and data collected by recent Bank missions to
Madagascar.



- ii -
PROJECT CQMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FIFTH AND SIXTH HIGHWAY PRCJECTS
(CREDITS 938-MAG A=D 1391-MAG)
EVALUATION  UMARY
Ob ectives
1.          The Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects shared the objectives of
developing the institutional capacity within the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW) to carry out and sustain the maintenance of Madagascar's main road
network. The emphasis on technical assistance to develop an ongoing
maintenance program and strengthen road maintenance capabilities, and the
importance of the road maintenance component within each project are
indications of this deliberate intent (para. 3.01). In relative terms the
importance of new road construction beyond required rehabilitation (para.
3.02) was intended to decrease with respect to prior country experience.
The Sixth Prcject was conceived with a sectoral view to further advance
this approach. A sectoral program was appraised and financed by several
donors including IDA (para. 3.03).
Imrlementation EWxerience
2.          The implementation of the Fifth project was delayed from early
on by the inability of MPW to follow the implementation program agreed upon
during preparation and confirmed during negotiations. It was further
affected by: (i) lack of sustained Government commitment to the objectives
of the project; (ii) clow contracting due to weak administrative
performance; (iii) insufficient counterpart funding; (iv) sizable increased
expenditures in new construction and rehabilitation work. The combination
of all these factors delayed project execution by almost four years,
brought about chE.ges in project scope, and prevented the attainments of
several implementation targets (para. 5.01 through para. 5.05).
3.          The implementation of the Sixth project shows an improvement
which is due in part tot (i) the overlap between supervision of the Fifth
Project with the preparation of the Sixth, which facilitated dialogue and
incorporation of experience into project design; (ii) the emphasis on
addressing a sector wide situation; and (iii) the participation of other
donors (para. 5.06). A delay of over two years in disbursements over the
appraisal schedule is indicative of progress as well as continuing
difficulties (para. 5.06 through part 5.09).
Results
4.          The projects were only partially successful in meeting their
objectives. For instance in the case of the Fifth project: only 49 km out
of 500 km of paved roads were resurfaced and there is no evidence that 400
tons of bitumen for road maintenance were procured; the rehabilitation



- iii -
instead of resurfacing of sections of RN4 totalling 200 km implied an
increase in costs per km which togetbar with economic and traffic growth
slower than arnticipated at appraisal give an ERR of about 18%, far
different from the 127% eat-.mated in the SAR; the Antsohihy-Ambanja road
investments hp.ve a low ERR of about 4%, much less than the 16% estimated in
the SAR. Or, the other hand, targets were substantially exceeded in the case
of regravellTig of unpaved roads, seven regravelling brigades were
constituted and they regravelled 600 km, in addition to 400 km performed by
contractors or two and a half times the appraisal tar,et of 400 km (para.
6.02). The maintenance work of the F_fth and Sixth Projects combined had
an ERR in - cess of 130% (see para 5 below).
5           The Sixth project obtained a greater proportion of its
operational targets. To some extent this was due to a gradual acceptance by
the Borrower of the economic priority of maintenance. In this regard,
patching and resealing on 2500 km of paved roads is reported as carried
out. The same applies to about 1850 km of feeder roads. The
rehabilitation of RN4 and RN7 had a rate of return of 25% and 31%
respectively. The combined project expenditures in maintenance for the
Fifth and Sixth Projects had a combined rate of return in excess of 130%.
However, a separate evaluation ex-post was not possible due to the overlap
between the projects and aggregation of the data available. Details of
these estimates are provided in para 6.03 and in Part III (B), Annex (ii).
The physical targets of the project were by and large obtained and
disbursement by categories albeit higher, ias proportional to the figures
in the SAR. The expanded program carried out is consistent with the
successful implementation of the project (paras. 6.03 and 6.07).
Sustainabilitv
6.      ..  The conditions for the sustainability of the efforts in the
road sector in Madagascar did not exist in the course of the Fifth Project.
Counterpart funds were neither on time nor sufficient for the project to be
carried out much less for the whole sector. In the course of the Sixth
Project the improvement in the resources flowing to maintenance was more
related to the availability of funds from other donors who agreed to
cofinance the "program" of MPW than to a stable and reliable source of
local finance. Both projects have made sizable contributions to building-up
the local technica_' capacity, thus helping to remove deficiencies in the
ability to maintain investments in the road sector. However, this progress
is likely to remain at risk, if the capacity generated were to go unused
due to the financial constraints of the road sector (para. 7.01). In sum,
substantial progress in regards to sustainability has taken ?lace during
the implementation of the two projects, although the lack of assured
finance remains a significant issue to be tackled in future oPerations.
Findints and Lessons Learned
7.          Substantial progress has been made in the course of these two
projects towards a shared view between the Bank and the Borrower on the
importance of road maintenance operations, and institution building
training and technical assistance have been instrumental in achieving this.
The follow-up by both tank and Borrower of the technical assistance made
available under the rrojects as documented in the files could have



- iv -
benefi-ted from being more aggressive. Studies have not been matched up
with locally generated implementation efforts, nor such implementation
seems to have figured prominently in the country dialogue during project
execution. At the operational level t1 conception of the sixth project as
an element of a coherent program has shown advantages over the set of
isolated actions making up the fifth. The supervision effort on the part of
the Bankl/, as evidenced by the thoroughness of supervision reports in
the files, might have decreased in intensity during the ten year period
covered by these projects, and at times did not provide a complete view of
project implementation. A fall-off in the motivating and leader:ship role
of the Bank may have occurred as a result. At the same time, .he overlap
of preparation and implementation of the project         allow the
incorporation of prior experience into project pre;. :ation oven if formal
supervision did not fully document the evolution of the situation. The
supervision of the Seventh Project currently under way, is paying
particular attention to the deficiencies noted above.
8.          The weaknesses of MPW in the course of project .= 12mentation
were caused bys (i) variabla commitment to project objectives; (ii) some
discontinuity in mid-level staff assignments; (iii) shortages in qualified
personnel; (iv) cumbersome administrative procedures; and (v) delays in
contracting and issuing payments to contractors. To further improve the
implementation of projects in the road sector, the following conditions are
required: strong commitment to project objectives; timely provision of
counterpart funds; streamlining of all administrative and disbursement
procedures; and reduction of the scope for political interference in
technical decisions as exemplified by the bridges of the Antsohihy-Ambanja
road. Uneven progress in these areas took place over the last ten years,
and particular attention to them is called for in the preparation and
supervision of future projects.
Overall Proiect Assessments
9.          The projects reviewed show clearly the inception of a process
of awareness and evolution on the part of the borrower which can only be
described as positive and, by implication, satisfactory. On narrow project
grounds, however, the information on record supports an assessment of the
Fifth Project as unsatisfactory, and of the Sixth Project as satisfactory.
Furthermore, lessons learned to be applied in future operations should
contribute to an improvement of the road sector in Madagascar. Finally, it
should be noted that the difficulties experienced by the Fifth Project were
fully expected by the Bank and were taken as a necessary cost to the
continuance of relations with the borrower.
1/    Each supervision mission was intended to supervise several
projects. The totals of supervision mission days for the Fifth Project
are given in Part III A - Table 8 and for the Sixth Project indicated in
Part III B - Table 8, do not reflect actual time spent in supervising
them,and a disaggregation could not be made.



PROJECT COMPLETIQN REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FIFTI AND SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECTS
(REDITS 938-MAG       1 1391-MAG)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW PROM ANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.0         Project Identity
- Project Names :    Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects
- Credit Numbers:    938 MAG  -  1391 MAG
- RVP Unit s          Africa Region, Country Department III
- Countrys            Madagascar
- Sector s            Infrastructure
- Subsector:          Highways
2 0         Background
2.01        The Primary road network of Madagascar consists of about 4,000-
km of paved roads, 300 km of gravel roads and 4,400 earth roads for a total
of 8,700 km. The secondary network of close to 6,000 km Is made up of 540
km of paved roads; 5,400 km of earth and gravel roads. Unpaved, tertiary
roads and tracks total 13,000 km.  In 1978, total-resources allocated to
road maintenance reached US$ 14.2 million equivalent. Although inadequate,
this represented an improvement from 1972 levels of US$ 8.2 million
equivalent. In 1978, investment expenditures at about US$ 20 million
equivalent (Appraisal Report Fifth Highway Project, report no. 23556-MAG),
almost doubled the level of recurrent expenditures for rehabilitation and
maintenance and rehabilitation. A decade later, the level of expenditures
in road maintenance had reached about US$ 20 million equivalent out of a
reported total of VD$ 27.4 million equivalent. The quality of the work and
the identification of maintenanue work to be carried out in priority
improved during the period covered by the Fifth and Sixth Highway projects.
(The Fifth project was appraised in 1979 and the closing date of the Sixth
project was June 1°eJ.).
2.02        The recognition of the importance of maintenance being on the
plus side, the scale of the resources available between 1980 and 1990, was
not sufficient to arrest the further deterioration of the road network.
Aside from the net increase in resources made available being inferior to
that suggested by the nominal figures given above - due to depreciation of
the US dollar - the resources, if allocattd to the Primary and secondary
network exclusively, would give a level of US$ 2,500 p.s. per km of paved
roads and USS 870 per km p.a. for earth roads. These amounts obtained
towards the end of the period can be considered acceptable for routine
maintenance and patching. They represent a major Improvement. However,



-2-
they cannot cover resurfacing and regra..lling when required, let alor.e
rehabilitation for the whole network. If we further note that throughout
the decade only 10% of these amounts came from local resources, the
financial problem faced by Madagascar's road infrastructure becomes
overwhelming.
2.03        The Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects shared sector development
objectives of upgrading existing infrastructure, enabling local capacity to
perform the necessary rehabilitation and maintenance of the paved network,
and developing a program for the opening and regravelling the system of
rural roads feeding into it. Specific project objectives evolved from one
project to the othe- 4.n terms of increased comprehensiveness and
adjustments to project components in the light of experience gained while
implementing the Fifth Project.
2.04        The projects attempted to change the policy context for the
sector which, during earlier lending operation, had been oriented towards
new road construction. The first indication of this shift occurred under
che Fourth Project which had included a small road maintenance comporent.
During preparation of the Fifth project, the GOM indicated its interest in
pursuing as a matter of absolute priority the establishment of road
connections between the capital and all main regional centers. IDA
consistently emphasized the need to balance such an objpZtive with the need
to maintain the existing network to head-off the risk of eroding its
capital base at a rate faster than that of new road accretions.
2.05        The Fifth Project amounted to a difficult compromise between
the extremely diverging positions of IDA and the Borrower. This difficult
start notwithstanding, the project initiated a dialogue which allowed the
further movement in the direction of increasing the quality of the road
investments represented by the Sixth Project.
3.0         Prolect Obiectives and Description
3.01        Prolect Oblectives. The objectives of the Fifth Project were
to: (i) prevent further deterioration of the paved network; (ii) incLease
the capacity of the MPW to carry out road maintenance; (iii) provide for an
all-weather road connection between the regional district of Antomboka and
the capital, Antananarivo. The objectives of the Sixth Project wpere to:
(i) permit efficient and reliable transport on the country's high priority
roads by improving their condition and arresting further deterioration;
(ii) continu- the strengthltening of the road administration's capacity to
maintain the :oad network and repair the Government's equipment pool; (iii)
improve transport coordination and planning; and (iv) begin the
rehabilitation of the country's commercial vehicle fleet.
3.02        Proiect Components. Specifically, the Fifth Project consisted
of:
(a)   The resurfacing and partial rehabilitation of about 500 kms of
paved roads (out of a total of some 5,000 km of paved roads)
and the provision of an initial stock of materials (bitumen)
for road maintenance.



-3-
(b)   The construction of 20 bridges on the AntohJhy-Ambanje road and
short road sections (approach roads) consacutive to the
bridges.
(c)   The improvement of road maintenance operations by:
(i)   Strengthening MPW's central administrative organization
for road maintenance;
(ii)  Improving rov:ine and periodic maintenance in two
regional districts, including a regravelling program f r
about 400 kms of roads (of about 4,700 km of unpaved RN);
and
(iii) Improving the mechanical workshops in five of the six
regional district centers.
(d)   A study to determine the most appropriate mix of lebor and
equipment for road maintenance and improvement works including
a regravelling program for about 4.0 kms of roads and
implementation of a two year demonstration program.
(e)   Feasibility and detail 1 engineering studies for about 170 kms
of National Road (RN) 13.
(f)   Training of MPW staff and technical assistance.
(g)   Overseas fellowships program for MPW staff.
3.03        The Sixth Highway Project as appraised included the following:
(a)   A three-year rehabilitation and maintenance program (1984-1986)
consisting of:
Mi)   Rehabilitation, spot improvement and maintenance of about
900 km of rural and feeder roads by contractors,
including about 150 km of roads in the Highlands Rice
Project area;
(ii) Patching and resealing of about 2,500 km of paved roads,
spot improvement and maintenance of about 2,000 km of
rural and feeder roads ( including about 150 km in the
Highlands Rice Project area) und routine maintenance of
the entire 10,000 km economic network by force account,
requiring provision of (1) equipment, spark.. parts,
materials and supplies, and (2) workshop facilities and
equipment; and
(iii) The second phase (about 280 km) of a rehabilitation
program of RN4 and RN7;
(b)   Improvement of the National Soils Laboratory (NSL);



(c)   Training of MPW and MTST (Ministry of Transport, Suppl'ies and
Tourism) personnel;
(d)   Rehabilitation of the road transport industry through the
purchase of spare parts;
(e)   Consulting services for: (1) supervision and management of
works under (a); (2) preinvestment studies of future paved road
maintenance and strengthening programs and the development of
about 2,000 km of rural and feeder roads including about 1,000
km of roads in the Highlands Rice Project area; (3) improvement
of MPW's management and organization and the administration of
the feeder road network; (4) improvement of transport planning
and coordination; (5) technical assistance for training and for
improvement of NSL.
4.0         Prolect Desian and Organization
4.01        Conceptual Fcandation. As formulated in the respentive SAR's,
the projects had a clear conceptual foundation, which was the need to shift
from road network expansion to maintenance, rehabilitation, strengthening,
related institution building and transport planning. This shift had begun,
albeit in a modest way, under the Fourth Highway Project. Initially, the
Borrower neither understood nor supported this changed approach to highway
development. Nevertheless, over the ensuing years, the Borrower came to
adopt this position to an extent which could not have been predicted
initially.
4.02        Innovative Aspects. The Fifth was the first highway project in
Madagascar to make an almost exclusive effort to create and empower a
.highway maintenance capacity, and provide related institution building and
a matching training effort. For Madagascar, this feature was innovative to
the point of encountering outright resistance from local authorities in the
course of project appraisal and execution. The pace and acceptance of
innovation improved with the Sixth and the effort was extended to the whole
network, including the identification, design and evaluation of new
projects. Compared to previous operations in the country's road subsector,
the projects were innovative in that they attempted to introduce
substantial change. The scope of the Fifth project might have been overly
ambitious, not with respect to actual needs, but with respect to the
initial degree of acceptance of the proposed innovations on the part of the
Borrower. Since this was expressed in the lower priority given to
maintenance budgets, it is easy to conclude that the scale of the Fifth
project was excessive since little or no indication of borrower acceptance
or demonstration benefits had been reaped from the previous projects in the
sector. The combined experience with the Sixth Project, however, indicates
that, while real teething problems were experienced at the beginning of the
decade, over the long term and in spite of delays, a significant shift in
attitudes took hold and a project of a much broader scope was made possible
at the end as a result.
4.03        Preparation of the projects.  An innovative project for which
less-than-perfect agreement exists can always benefit from additional
preparation work. There is no clear answer as to whether the favorable



- 5 -
evolution of the Borrower's views would have been accelerated had the Fifth
project been delayed at a time in which it was to become the only active
IDA operation in Madagascar. IDA acted in manner consistent with the view
that the need to initiate a dialogue and maintain a presence in the country
was worth the risks taken. At the same time there were studies started
under the Fourth Project which were instrumental for the preparation of the
Fifth, although there is no mention in the files of the studies or other
documentation on which the project is based. Given the complexity of the
tasks undertaken and the cost overruns experienced, the Fifth Project could
have benefitted from a more thorough preparation effort. This could have
been helpful in reducing delays in credit effectiveness and subsequent
implementation. The preparation of the Sixth benefitted from an improved
dialogue between IDA and the Borrower as well as from the studies financed
by the previous project. In all, an increasingly amicable dialogue, i.e.
improved quality of project priparation was observed. The subsequent delays
in implementing the Sixth Project are more related to lingering
institutional problems and project complexity rather than obvious flaws in
project preparation (see para. 5.06).
4.04        Roles and Responsibilities. The new roles and responsibilities
to be discharged by the Borrower were not fully understood or internalized
at the time of the negotiations for the Fifth Project. On IDA's part, an
assessment of MPW capability and most likely pace of change was not made.
In retrospect, a more specific institutional analysis might have led to a
better definition of technical assistance needs and would have avoided some
of the delays in project implementation. Again, the Sixth project
benefitted from the experience under the previous project, and its
technical assistance components were more focused on the needs of the
Borrower.
5.0         Proiect Implementation
5.01        Variances in the Implementation. The most critical variances
between planned and actual implementation of the Fifth Project affected
project substance, cost escalations, the physical project scope, changes in
design standards, and project delays. On project substance, IDA conceived
the project as a maintenance, pavement strengthening, rehabilitation and
related technical assistance and training operation. The Borrower had
expressed interest in new construction during negotiations, and a new
bridge construction component representing 11% of planned IDA disbursements
was added to the project. During implementation, the share of new
construction grew progressively as cost revisions lifted it to 70% of
actual IDA disbursements at the time of project completion, thus diluting
the maintenance orientation of the project and siphoning away project funds
from road maintenance.
5.02        Cost escalations took project costs from US$ 45.7 M inclusive
of a 15% total contingency to US$ 62.3 M or over 40% of appraisal estimates
over and above the application of price and physical contingencies, and
maintenance items had to be postponed as a result.
5.03        The physical scope of the project suffered as a result of cost
escalations: only 49 km of the 500 km intended were rehabilitated; the road
maintenance including all contingencies was reduced from US$ 16.1 M to US$



- 6 -
3.7 million; the small labor intensive component of US$ 0.9 M was
eliminated; and only eighteen of the 20 bridges on the Antsohihy - Ambanje
road were constructed with IDA funds. (The remaining two were financed by
the European Development Fund - EDX . 2/
5.04        Design standards changes for RN6 bridges were agreed to by IDA
on condition that the government would finance the extra cost out of its
own resources. This condicion was later relaxed. The bridges were
constructed as two lane as opposed to single lane es envisioned in the SAR.
5.05        Project completion and credit closing dates were postponed
three times. The SAR expected to complete the project in three years, but
actual completion took place over three and a half years behind schedule.
Lack of counteipart funds, staff changes, administrative and procurement
delays affecting the deployment of consultants contributed, together, to
the substantial delays.
5.06        The implementation of the Sixth Prolect faced difficulties
linked to its ambitious scope. Nevertheless, the substance of the IDA-
financed project was respected and all project components have been
reported as completed with no major changes to project orientation. The
cost performance of the implementation of individual components is obscured
by the fact that disaggregated data on actual local expenditures by
component is not available. In addition, the total work program of MPW was
enlarged as financing by other donors totalling US$ 47 million was made
available3l. Whether a modification to the program to include
economically lustified applications of these funds took place or not is not
kno'yn4 Accordingly, the extent to which variances in project costs have
taken place cannot be ascertained, although institutional performance as
reported is indicative of a substantial improvement. More of a doubling of
foreign and local costs of the program took place (from US$ 81.7 million
over 3 years to US$ 164.5 million over six years) and resulted in an
increase of the government contribution from US$ 16 million equivalent to
US$39 million. The extent to which design standards might have been
modified cannot be ascertained in view of the paucity of data. The project
was to be completed in three years but, in fact, took six and a half years,
something to be kept in mind as total costs and implementation time for the
program, of which the project was part, actually doubled. The level of
activity and expenses in the road sector certainly picked-up beyond the
level envisioned at appraisal under the Sixth project, albeit Pubject to
the efficiency questions posed above (quality of additional works and cost
effectiveness of their design standards).
5.07        Possible Avoidance of Variances and Risks. The variances in the
Fifth project could have been substantially reduced if: (i) the Borrower
2/    Regravelling of roads however, exceeded appraisal targets by 200
km, at the end of 1983.
3/    The African Development Bank (ADB) increased its lending by US$ 25
million, the European Development Fund (EDF) provided additional US$ 12
million and the Swiss Development Corporation (SDC) made available US$
10 million.



and IDA had been closer in their i.nitial positions; (ii) IDA and the
Borrower had been more aware of tLe implementation constraints of the
latter; (iii) the necessary technical assistance had been both available
and welcome; (iv) the necessary counterpart funding had been made available
on time. By contrast, the variances in the Sixth Project were related to
an increase in funding and expansion of the scope of MPW's work program.
The main unanswered questions for the Sixth Project refer to the cost
effectiveness of the doubling of expenditures over a doubled implementation
period.
5.08        The sources of project risks identified during appraisal of the
Fifth Project were: (i) failure of the Government to release, on a timely
basis, adequate funds to the regional district offices; (ii) interference
of regional political authorities with the implementation of the
maintenance program; (iii) delays in recruitment of consultants and other
procurement. For the Sixth Project the sources of risk identified were: (i)
possible lack of counterpart funds; (ii) the capability of MFW to manage
and execute an expanded program; (iii) the possibility that poor quality
control could reduce the economic life and the benefits ensuing from the
project. The risks were clearly identified in the SAR of the Fifth Project
and, in retrospect, all of them contributed to project delays and weaker
project performance. The risk remedies designed into the Fifth Project were
insufficient, although given the innovative nature of the project one could
question whether more than a marginal reduction in risks would have been
possible under the circumstances. The risks of the Sixth Project were
addressed by a financing mechanism to be used exclusively for routine and
periodic road maintenance and by a significant technical assistance
component.
5.09        Actions Affecting Implementation. The single action that most
.affected project implementation was IDA's willingness to entertain at the
negotiations stage the introduction of a new construction component in the
Fifth Project. It affected the availability of funds, lowered the benefits
of the project and unnecessarily slowed down its implementation.
6.0         Proiect Results
6.01        Project Objectives. The Fifth Highway Project was only
partially successful in attaining its objectives as follows: . .
(i)   Further deterioration of the paved road network was not avoided
to the extent anticipated at appraisal;
(ii) The development of maintenance capability within MPW was begun
but was affected by the reduction in the scope of maintenance
work; and
(iii) The provision of an all-weather road connection between the
regional district capital of Antomboka and Antananarivo was
attained in spite of the reduction of the resurfacing and
rehabilitation component.
The objectives of the Sixth Highway Project were realized to a much greater
extent since:



- 8 -
(i)   The actions envisioned for improving road conditions and
arresting the deterioration of the network took place;
(ii)  The training and institutional upgrading efforts did succeed in
improving MPW's performance;
(iii) The assiatance to the rehabilitation of the commercial vehicle
fleet through the acquisition of spare parts took place.
Less evident is the success in improving transportation coordination and
planning in the course of project implementation.
6.02        Physical Results. The physical results for the Fifth Project
are skewed by the changes in project composition and emphasis mentioned
above. Although the rehabilitation works on RN4 were most beneficial, they
were reduced to 10% of their original scope. The maintenance and
rehabilitation outlays were reduced by about 50%, and only a start was made
on the establishment of the required institutional capacity. The variance
between planned and actual results is explained by: (i) higher construction
costs as a result of changes in project design; (ii) lower than anticipated
priority given to road maintenance by the Government; and (iii) lower than
expected institutional capabilities. The ERR of the rehabilitation work on
the basis of traffic data available after project completion at 18% is
substantially lower than that estimated at appraisal (127%) which had
envisioned a much lighter rehabilitation than was actually required. The
estimated ERR for eighteen of the bridges on the Antsohihy-Ambanje road is
low, under 4%, and rates of return on the reduced maintenance performed can
not be estimated separately due to a lack of disaggregate operating costs
and traffic data. Due to overlap with the Sixth Project, maintenance works
under both projects have been evaluated jointly. The ERR for the reduced
-maintenance work performed was evaluated at 130%, it agrees with Fifth
Project appraisal estimates of "higher than 100%".  The variances are
explained by lower traffic than anticipated, increases in unit investment
costs, and project design changes.
6.03        As reported by GOM, the physical results of the Sixth Project
exceed or match the targets in the SAR. Bearing in mind that an optimistic
expectation of traffic pervaded the previous project, and that the economy
of Madagascar has experienced either no growth or slow growth in the '80's,
lower than anticipate$ ERR's have been realized. Nevertheless, the
rehabilitation and maintenance work show satisfactory rates of return. The
rehabilitation works on RN4 and RN7 have ERR's of 25% and 31% respectively,
and maintenance work between 1984 and 1989 covered by investments and
expenditures under both projects have an ERR in excess of 130Z which is
below Sixth Project appraisal estimates. The ex-post evaluation for road
maintenance has been made on the basis of: (i) low average traffic, less
than 95 vehicles per day; (ii) no traffic growth; and (iii) vehicle
operating costs (VOC) savings one fourth of the savings realized in going
from poor to good road conditions. Road maintenance, to the extent it was
performed, had satlsfactory impacts as it could be expected.  Questions
remain on the unpai3d roads, for which a 12Z had been estimated at the time
of the appraisal and where we do not have adequate data. At appraisal, the
project had a combined ERR of 42% for close to 902 of its components. An
actual overall rate in excess of 25Z seems to have been obtained. This is



lower than estimated at appraisal but acceptable, albeit ERR's below 10%
for some individual stretches of unpaved roads are likely to have occurred.
6.04        Proiect Impact. The projects and particulary the Sixth, had a
marked impact in reorienting the efforts of MPW in the direction of road
maintenance, capacity development, allocation of local funds to the
preservation of road infrastructure, and attracting other donors to the
sector. Together, the projects achieved an outcome which did not seem
likely at the inception of the Fifth Highway Project. The training, albeit
somewhat below stated goals, institutional development and technical
assistance included under the projects, had a positive impact ont (i) staff
development; (ii) official recognition of the importance of maintenance;
(iii) attitude towards the Bank's advice; and (iv) the work program of MPW.
This contribution and the progress it helped bring about, have not been
sufficient to solve the obvious institutional and capacity problems of road
maintenance in Madagascar. This is a task which will take sustained effort
over an extended time period, and which continues to be focused on under
the Seventh Highway Project. In fairness to the Fifth and Sixth Projects,
however, it should be recalled that their objectives in this regard were
modest.
7.0         Prolect Sustainability
7.01        The projects succeeded in attaining a critical mass of
activities related to the preservation of existing infrastructure. The
sustainability of the investment was addressed in terms of easing
institutional bottlenecks, obtaining resources to secure the necessary
level activity to arrest the degradation of the network and begin its
improvement. To this end, local and foreign exchange resources were made
available to begin reducing the backlog of road maintenance and
rehabilitation. It must be noted, however, that additional foreign debt to
meet recurrent expenditures of the sector has not been offset by economic
growth and expansion of exports, a situation which is not sustainable over
the long term. In the final analysis project sustainability will depend
upon the success in the adjustment process of the national economy, the
mobilization of local resources, and an elimination of the maintenance and
rehabilitation backlog4/. Under the circumstances, project sustainability
is at best uncertain.
8.0         Bank Performance
8.01        PreparAtion and Appraisal. The Bank initially underestimated
the technical assistance needs for the Fifth Project and also expected far
too high traffic growth rates. This experience was instrumental in the
preparation of the Sixth Project, which corrected some of the deficiencies
previously observed. Even so, the traffic growth rates of 3.5Z used in the
SAR for the Sixth Project have not taken place. The covenants introduced in
both projects were designed to increase the chances of success and
facilitate implementation. Borrower compliance with the covenants was at
4/The backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation can be readily observed
throughout Madagascar.



- 10 -
its best in the Sixth Project reflecting the improved implementation
already noted.
8.02        Supervision. Supervision by IDA has been less intense than the
situzation required. Supervision reports initially contained much technical
!:,ormation; however, this excellent reporting was not maintained. Generic
^cacr1ptions and lack of reports from the Borrower in the files may be seen
as indicative of a preoccupation with project preparation rather than
effective supervision of projects. Nevertheless, overlaps between projects
did allow the early introduction of lessons from previous operations.
Total manpower devoted to project preparation seems to be higher than that
for supervision even when allowing for some imprecise time-recording.
Whatever the cause, the information in the files reflects incomplete
reporting of supervision efforts as reflected in lack of formal follow-up
of consultants' work.
9.0         Borrower Performance
9.01        Strengths and weaknesses.  The chief weaknesses of the Borrower
were disinterest in road maintenance and cumbersome administrative
procedures, particularly for procurement. During the years of
implementation of the Fifth and Sixth Project the Borrower lacked
familiarity with Bank procedures. Bid processing and adjudication,
although somewhat improved in the Sixth project, continued to be a source
of project delays. Observance of credit covenants was less than
satisfactory in the Fifth Project and became satisfactory in the case of
the Sixth. However, the absence of quarterly reports to IDA on project
progress has been a constant for both projects and needs to be pointed out
as a major weakness in the relationship with the Borrower. This lack of
proper communications needs to be seen in the light of internal MPW annual
reports covering much of the required information. The 1985 report, only
one available for the Sixth Project, is a good example.
9.02        Lessons and Experience. Substantial changes in Government
policies and approach to expenditures in the sector took place as a result
of the projects. The overlap of them seems to have allowed the almost
imnediate application of lessons and experience in a way not always
possible in stand alone operations.
10.0        Project relationship
10.01       Bank Borrower Relation.  ae relation between the Bank and the
Borrower were strained during appraisal of the Fifth Project to the point
of jeopardizing the operation itself. Relations improved thereafter but a
distant and independent stance can be detected on the part of the Borrower
with the minimum necessary flow of information taking place. The favorable
evolution of the Borrower's views has been the result of interaction with
missions, interaction with consultants and direct absorption of the
experience generated. A distant, if professional, relationship between Bank
and Borrower not only reduces the opportunities for meaningful dialogue but
may have also masked implementation problems wnich may be partially to
blame for the delays the projects have experienced. The lack of timely
reporting to the Bank on project implementation is a serious matter and,
whether this is a further flaw of past IDA supervision or not, special



- 11 -
emphasis and urgence needs to be given in the future to the country's
fullfilment of its reporting obligations under its agreements with IDA. On
the financial side, lack of counterpart funds on a timely basis was the
main reason for project delays in the Fifth Project, particularly for the
maintenance components of it. The avr'Y.ability and level of resources for
the road sector under the Sixth Project was much improved and did not
contribute directly to project delays.
10.02       Internal Relations of the Borrower. In the course of these two
operations the Borrower seems to have had some success in reducing the role
of non-technical decision-making, i.e. political, in the sector. This is a
difficult task given the centralized nature of the administration. Efforts
to improve planning and project identification, preparation and evaluation
do not seem to have been fully successful. The Borrower would have to
strengthen his relisnce on the technical capabilities put at his disposal
in future IDA financed projects to fully benefit and learn from them.
11.0        Consultive Services
11.01       Consultant services have been instrumental in providing not
only training, but most of the formal technical advice as well as
supervision of project execution. The full benefit from their
participation does not seem to have been realized. Beginning with the
Fifth Project for Instance, a study on road maintenance policies was
carried out, although little, if any, IDA follow-up has taken place
according to the record. The same can be said of the two technical
assistance positions for road management provided under the Sixth Project.
In both projects, the consultants seem to have performed to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and no special difficulties beyond the
occasional procurement delays already mentioned have been evident.
12.0        Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01       The legal agreement for the Fifth Project included twelve
covenants, of which three were not complied with. The provision of funds
for maintenance and the carrying out of the maintenance of roads for which
MPW had responsibility were not complied with. The initial lack of
interest in road maintenance on the part of the borrower was reflected in
such lack of compliance. The details and data available on the handling of
this operation by IDA are not in support of the close follow-up advisable
in such situations.
12.02       The legal documents of the Sixth Project includes fourteen
covenants. Of these, thirteen have been reported as fully complied with and
one in partial compliance. In 1987, the Borrower had made available only
US$ 5 M for spare parts for commercial vehicles as opposed to US$ 15 M
indicated in the agreement.  No information-is available as to reasons for
this departure nor the final disposition of the matter.
12.03       The lack of in-depth supervision for the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects has translated into serious deficiencies in all data and
documentation pertaining to project implementation. This is a matter to
which AF3IN is paying particular attention in the course of the supervision
of the Seventh Highway Project, and at the risk of belaboring the point has
amounted to a serious deficiency on the part of IDA.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGABCAR
FIFTH AND SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECTS
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER', PERSPECTIVE
A.    COMMENTS ON PARTS I AND III OF THE REPORT PREPARED BY IDA
Part I
This part of the report states that the projects were only partially
successful in meeting their objectives.   Variances were noted between the
objectives as set and actual results, despite considerable delays in relation to
initial estimates.
These variances are attributable:
*     Inasmuch as relates to the Malagasy authorities, to the various levels of
decisionmaking and coordination, as evidenced, for example, in the lack of rigor
in prioritizing objectives between new consttuction and maintenance operations
(particularly apparent in the Fifth Project).   There was also a permanent
shortage of counterpart funds assigned to the projects by the Malagasy
authorities, together with administrative' shortcomings (slowness in awarding
contracts) and the general inability of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), as
executing agency, to implement these projects with the desired efficiency.
-     Inasmuch as relates to the Bank, to the inadequate efforts devoted to
supervision of project implementation.
Nonetheless, it is stated on a number of occasions that a marked
improvement was evident in execution of the Sixth Project, due to the fact that
the parties enjoyed a better relationship and were able to reach a consensus on
the sectoral policy to be pursued, with the primary focus on preserving the
national highway system through maintenance and rehabilitation.
In this regard, MPW's performance should no longer be a delaying factor,
especially as the Sixth Project was enlarged in terms of both its volume and its
finances. In addition, MPW was the subject of an in-depth organizational audit
conducted by the consulting firm of SEMA as part of the Sixth Highway Project.
Implementation of the recommendations stemming from this audit has enabled MPW
to upgrade its technical and organizational capacity. Furthermore, the Sixth
Project has been audited three times (in 1986, 1987 and 1989), while preparations
are currently in hand for a fourth audit. Implementation of the recommendations
from these audits has enabled MPW to improve its performance, particularly as
regardL financial monitor'ng of execution of the Sixth Highway Project, an area
in which the Ministry's poor performance under the Fifth Project was severely
criticized.
Variances still exist, of course, but significant progress has been made,
notably through reforms in both t1he administrative area (contracting procedures)
and in the institutional area (strengthening of MPW's working capacity).
As regards the results of the two projects, the statement that these fell
considerably short of initial expectations would appear to be incorrect. The two
projects were begun at a time when the economic and social environment, both
domestic and international, reflected great instabilityt  domestic economic
growth was stagnant or even declining, reflecting a measure of failure of prior
economic policies. Reorientation of certain maior thrusts of this policy became
necessary, compelling MPW to pursue a policy of structural adjustment under the
IMF's aegis, with inescapable social and ojther consequences (devaluation, etc.).
The Ministry's ability to achieve tba objectives initially set was thus of
necessity limited by its absence of control over such an environment.



- 13 -
Nonetheless, it should not be forgotten that the two projects generated results
of considerable importance for the country in preserving the national road
system, with all the economic and social consequences that ensue. In the long
run, when combined with those of other, future projects (notably the Seventh
Highway Project), these results will be more and more characterized by gradual
expansion of the rehabilitated network and awareness of the major role that must
be assigned to highway maintenance, together with counterpart funding in Malagasy
francs.
Certain conditional evaluations expressed by Bank staff indicate certain
weaknesses within their organization. Banh staff should be in possession of all
the necessary information on implementation of projects (contracts approved,
progress reports, Sixth Project audit reports, disbursement requests sent to the
Bank, etc.). All of these various reports and items of correspondence, together
with documents prepared by supervision missions, should, in our opinion, enable
Bank staff to eliminate all conditional statements in their evaluations.
Pa III
This third part of the report, with statistical information pertaining to
the two projects, is not entirely accurate.
NPW has exhaustive data on actual disbursements (in SDRs and FMG) for both
projects. Comparison of these figures with those furnished by the Bank would be
desirable in order to bring to light any possible variances (see documents
prepared for Part II).
LESSONS
The increase in costs brought about by the extension of the period of
implementation for each project has had an enormous impact on attainment of the
original objectives. The necessary efforts will therefore have to be made to
ensure that initial schedules are observed, so that there will be no need for
subsequent chang is designed to cut back the original program due to rising costs.
These efforts wLll have to be pursued jointly by both parties:  the Bank by
stepping up its supervision efforts and taking all steps required to ensure
proper project execution; the Borrower by ensuring timely provision of the
counterpart financing for which it is responsible and observance of the various
covenants and other measures contained in the credit agreements, together with
action designed to simplify administrative procedures regulating government
contracts.
The executing agency (i.e. NPW) should be in a position to supply, at any
time, all the information and data required for implementation of each project.
This requirement will be met, with the ongoing computerization of the project
programming and monitoring system developed within the Ministry.
Evaluation of results in terms of the cost of various constituent elements
and components should be carried out in successive stages fixed at the time of
initial project appraisal, so that, when the project is concluded, they can be
consolidated to produce final, overall results.  Similarly, in the course of
implementation, remedial measures can be identified and taken to correct
variances at all stages of implementation and supervision. Lastly, upon project
completion, no conditional or questioning assessments should find their way into
the completion report.
A "project management" system has now been developed within MPW, but
unfortunately it was not yet in place during execution of the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects.   we are confident that this system will permit better
assessment of results of future projects.
For the future, consideration should be given to more comprehensive
projects in order to achieve lasting results, without banking on local
contributions that are always insufficient.



- 14 -
The donors, like IDA, should also pay a little more attention to
institutional support measures (planning, programming and monitoring) in order
to ensure that what has been built will last and will be managed properly.
CONCLUSION
Having regard to these comments and to the lessons we can draw from these
two completed projects, it is appropriate to add that, in order to enhance the
internal consistency and increase the reliability and rigor of the assessments
and statistical data given, consultation between the two parties would seem bw66-
asi& opportune for the finalization of the document.



- 15 -
B.          SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT:  TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A - IDA COMPONENT
B - COFIDA COMPONENT
C - AfDB/AfDF COMPONENT
1.    Results by catecory (Annex 1)
Overall situation by subcomponent (subject, contractor, amount, start-up
date, acceptance date, total amount in FMG, allocation to Fifth, Sixth or Seventh
Highway Project or another project).
A detailed breakdown by category and subcomponent was given to a Bank
mission in March 1991.
2.    Definitive statement of disbursements aaainst SF4-MAG and 1391-MAG.
by gatnao&X (Annex 2)
The following changes compared to the initial allocation, including the
"Unallocated" category, will be noted:
*  10% increase for category I   (civil engineering)
-  92% increase for category II  (consultants)
o 47% decrease for category III (highway maintenance)
-  18% decrease for category IV  (transport industry)
3.    Schedule of disbursements-aAinst SF4-MAQ and 1391-G (Annex 3)
This shows a slow start in 1984 and completion of the project dragging out
in 1989 and 1990.
4.    Indicative exchance rates for the nrciect perigd (Annex 4)



- 16 -
I.    SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECTs  SWIS8 COFIDA COMPONENT
1.    Work performed
*     Rehabilitation of RN 4 between PK 8 and 28.r,; PK 177 and 1921 PK 486 and
520; and PK 549 and 568 (88.5 km in all).
*     Supervision of the above works.
*     Provisional acceptance dates:  First sectiont  12/09/87
Second section: 12/12/87
Third sectiont  01/25/88
Fourth section: 04/23/88
2.    Cost of work Performed (FMG)
Before Taxes   Sales Tax (TUT)        Total
Works          7,308,769,894    1,094,313,189   8,403,023,083
Supervision      815,612,377       118,892,709      934,505,086
Total          8,124,382,271    1,213,205,898   9,337,588,169
3.   Breakdown of amount before taxes (FMG)
Swiss COFIDA        Counterpart
(Foreign Exchange)         Funds
Works               5,322,200,069      1,986,569,825
Supervision           350,758,184        464,854,193
Total               5,672,958,253      2,451,424,018
4.    Breakdown of COFIDA outlays (Sw F)
Works:       11,790,012.07
Supervision:    930,306.15 * (not including FMG 12,001,387 disbursed
---=S=-S=====    in error against SF4 HAG)
Total        12,720,318.22
The balince remaining (Sw F 2,279,681.78) will be used from 1991 onward to
rehabilitate RN 33 (works and supervision) and to provide equipment and supplies
for maintenance of RN 4.



-17 -
5.    Schedule of disbursements made (in Sw F)
1987 '1988
year                5,681,252.90      7,032,065.32
Cumulative          5,681,252.90    12,720,318.22
6.    Indicative exchange rates for the oroiect period (FMG/Foreign Currencies)
Janl ary               Ju. Jly            December      ]
l  ~     ~~ US$     Sw F        MS        Sw F  | US$          Sw F
1987      768.52    478.63   1365.45    894.04   1234.27    961.56
r 1988    1268.51    989.16   1431.83    945.741 1526.43   1009.88



_ 18 _
II.   SIXE  IGHWAY PROJECT: AfDBIAfLF CONPONeN
1.    Work performed
*     Rehabilitation of RN 7 between PK 31 and 132; PK 202 and 348.5; PK 410 and
508; and PK 257 and 260 (348.5 km in all).
*     Supervision of the above works.
*     Provisional acceptance dates: First section:  03/26/87
Second section: 09/02/87
Third section: 01/04/91
Fourth section: 01/04/81 (sic)
It should be noted that the contract covering the third section was
canceled on 03/26/8?.
2.    Cost of work performed (in FMG million)
!           8~~~efore Taxes    Taxes, TUT, IM     Total
.Works                 18,166             6,088          24,2S4
-Supervision           1,983               414            2,397
Total                 20,149             6,502          26,651
AfDB/AfDF share: 90% of amount before taxes.
3.    Breakdown of work performed (AfDB and AfDF portions)
AfDB/Foreign       AfDF/Forex and
Exchange          Local Curr.
___ ___ _ _  (UCB)           (UCF)
Works                12,167,051.96       7,751,724.78
Supervision             920,177.05       1,230,771.52
Total                13,087,229.01       8,902,556.30
The balances remaining (UCB 6,572,770.99 and UCF 7,017,443.70) will be used
from 1991 onward to rehabilitate RN 7 (works and supervision) between PR 6.5 and
31; PR 132 and 202.5; PR 348.5 and 410.4; and PR 812.5 and 917.9 (262.3 km in
all).



_ 19 -
4.    Schedul, of actual dlbursements
1986              1987              1988              1989              1990               1991
Year            5.576.179.58      3.817.117.63         448.484.97        849.814.05      1.575.856.          1.819.776.14
Cuwilative      5,576.179.58      9.393.297.21      9.841.722.18    10.691.596.23    11,267.452.87          13,087.229.01
AkE_
Year            3,784,504.71      2,406,794.43         173,608.95        674,400.28        476,673.32        1,469.574.61
Cwiulativ.      3,784,504.71      6,188,299.14      6,361,808.09       7,036,308.37      7,512,981.69        8,982,556.30
5.    Indicative exchanae rates for the groject period
JANUARY                                   JULY                                 DECEMBER
USs          UCB    l      'CF          USS           UCB         UCF           USS          UCB           UCF
1986              632.61         692.90       638.20        618.92       634.36      584.28        773.02        941.07        866.77
1987              768S2          945.90       871.22      1,365.45      1,740.16    1,602.78      1,234.27     1,744.92      1,607.16
1988             1,268.Si      1,740.05      1,602.68     1,431.83      1,802.41    1,724.59      1,526.43     2,044.26      1,882.87
1989             1,534.08      2,049.27      1,887.48     1,307.11     2,047.99    1,886.31       1,532.54     2,014.01      1,855.01
1990             1,532.69      2,020.96      1,861.41     1,506.18      2,011.26    1,852.48      1,472.26     2,083.81      1,919.30
02/22/91         1,642.68      2,3S8.32      2,172.14              I          -                  -             -                    -



- 20-
C. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
*     The fact that the Democratic Republic of Madagascar's share of the project
went up considerably is due to the following factors:   (i) IDA and COFIDA
financing represented only the foreign exchange cost, and (ii) a series of
devaluations resulted in a 2.3-fcld increase in the US$/FMG exchange rate.
*     Structures on the rehabilitated sections were not restored or consolidated.
*     Despite the volume of investment under the Fifth and Sixth Highway
Projects, RN 6 was not converted into an all-weather road (part of it is still
unpaved).
*     The amounts  allocated to Road Maintenance  Equipment were cut back
considerably compared with the initial allocation in order to almost double the
"Consultants' Services" category.
*     The objectives of the Management and Organization of the Ministry of Public
Works subcomponent were not achieved.
*     Contacts between the Bank and the Ministry of Public Works were virtual.y
limited to exchanges between the Supervisor and the Director General of
Infrastructure (Directeur G6n6ral de 1'Equipement), to the detriment of good
coordination of the project:
- virtual absence of periodic reports;
- poor preparation of subcomponents;
- poor coordination between the parties involved.
These problems should not arise under the Seventh Highway Project, thanks to the
introduction of:
- a project management system;
- coordination procedures.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Results by Category



*                                                                                                                                                *~~~~misS61  ini  oi  TIPUSMM n s     GO a;;  UFU;m
34IL lus
.......... ---------    .........-------- ...........
.......... ..................................                                        .                       . .    ...... ......... ........
*IZ          .AM                                                            ;Vr;3ii  : LWT
jjj3fl~5:~d  S d~~ird  S~:id MM        s;            1   i~o:s~iaraa:s~i   zu~   LI:II  3IiuaiuLi ; U
---------  ------------u.......u..   .....................  -----  -  ---------                                                               ...........



smis                 $011   =611+5618  SWUMMIN SMUDSWU    so in                                                                         ros U rwurAiu-
-- - ------------ ----- - ---------
rVulaMai
------------
'Mi
- - ----------
MUTIUM:
-- -   ------- - --                       -------- - ------
---------------- - - -----                                                          ---------------- - -------------- ------------ - --                                  ------ - - - ----
4                    0                    s                    s                     0                    0                    a                    0         :
----------- - - -                         ----------------                          - - - ------- - -- --- - ---- - -----                                                                     -          -   ------
MIMIR                4111cil;   12RIMIM    laLlUZIM    LU'Ril;    M%31;                                                        O'NF-EM    UL11VUL   MlWi:il   M%ii"M   :i5Uy;-aT=
------ - -------- ---- -   --- - ---- ------ - ------ -  ----- - --------- ---------------- - - -------- - ---
;;;GI;;;             U-iVr4,              RAIM                 H, ;!M               WOW;                                       ;Si=
--- - ----------- ----------------                             ---------------- - - ------------- ---- -   ----- - -- -------- - ---- -
a                                                                                                                                                   it                    J
-- - -------                                                                                                                    -- -   ------
.
;VWN                 iiII&IVU
----------- - - -  --- - -------                                                    ----------------                           -------------- -  -- - ---
;VzVJ                ;VEM;                                     ill;;;. Lo                                                  Is =191-WMIN,   Ma"N                         Zucar. ;;I;a'u a U%
------------ - ---- - ----------- - ----------- - --------- -                          -         -- -   -----                                        --- -   ----------- - ----- - -
- - --------------
NOMIN                MUM                  WN-N                  ;;;W&'v'                                                       MU.'N                SUH4,;                   ureclM.; U ul.;
---------------- ---------                -- - ------------                         ----- - --------- ------ - - - -----                                                                                            - ------------ - --- - ---- - - -
---------------- ---------------- - --------- - - - ---------------- ---------------- ---- - ------ - -- ----------- - - -                                                                                          -------- - --- - -- - --------- -
------ - -----   - ------- - --                                - - -------    ------                      ----- - -- - -----                                                                  -    ------- - --- -  - - - - -
GUINVO;  -1                                                                               lmi-lium !--UAlj-S
- - --------- - --                                                                                                             --------                                  - -----
raiwa    an razai                                               Ms                 TOSMA-Irt   LI IMAT                               am             zu"                  Birai                 ;Mr,                        MIT=
--- - -- - -------                                                                  ----------------
UUMU'llir.:                                                                                                                                       :MaN srimil: raratz au
Vrli 05 ilzi:  lurgi   lum HIM  lum "'M  luno U-Ma                                                                    U-M                 miii  'M nau :,Wf                                        6=12i
SOMMUdIU: murau                                                 r4mrsKi   muma   =Vraiii  rftlou-u   Ira& U iMT:  MM
ill 4                M6                   EN6                  IM                   uii                  au                    IL16             w villi                  w3j                                              .9
asommuminulaw In



----------    ---------- ------------------ -: -- ---sw:v 6** -        --- ---  s  -- - ---"Xo - o - - -    - -- ---  :
:::    iG:3z   as 3i  ;;z;U          :
: _  _  : ...... ................ ...........                 .............:
:                   :                    :                         ;:; ;;        :        ~ :aAa4l
: _ :. .                                 .....             .. ...............
-                    ............. ..........:._.. ..                        ....
4 I                 6c.                              s ::  :
I :G  :.             _:T............ :   -       -    ..------------T .:
flITS     IDI~S                3Q33g          moslu   m          zm fl
:   ..........O                                                                             Mu. ... . ..::.................  .._. ................. 
:~~~~--------  -----------  .......::. ....:. _... ------------------------------
:  *.;W;      :    WWI;;;C               Zii;          :     ;.i;;          :       - WWI  Br a i SC       ;i :M
:~~~~--------    ----------------  ........... ..... .......:_::. .... _:......   
:U 3;          :; CIo :                                                           -:T:          :
:..............:...... --------------- ------- -              ..........................:.....
:. _.... :....:........... ...  ..... ---------- ........
:    ;Ic6;s        :   Wt;.;,;; :I I                                 MMIUM ;;i:A1; ;;   ;
::...... .......... ................ .... :............. ..................... ......
:   ;iGiSC           MN;C; :M    i'7;iuir"; i7
------ -----. --------------  --......---------: ................   ...........................:
:.. ... ..  ....... ... .. . ......... :. --- -  _ ...... ........ _-----..----......... 
:.......  . .......:_.:___..  -------



n whic'1019i N-SMS In cispisla"49;" at IVA MIJ8 in asr.4i; M.; jTGj;=j" nd cinWil S;I&--3
....... . ....... ................ ................ - -------------- ---------------- ---------- - ---- ---------------- --- -  ----------
smi;                  oratis               siniii                ST"it                 olmtict               sistici              SUMS                  STIlict               MM              SMUSUHU   .1 UZZA M  u rwl;vaws
................ ---- -  --------- ................ ................ ................ ............ . .. .............. .  ..... . ...... ........
solin
- - -------------- ---------------- -------- - ------ ---------------- -----------------                          i.: ---------- ................ ................ ...... . .                     .... .  .. .........
mji as -;W..:
........ . ...... ................ .... . .......... .........                                              ................ :-. ............. ...... . ........ . . .....                                 .  ......
: aq; :; 'it= sul;x1rdsi;
................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ................ ---- - - -------- ....... .  ...... ..... .....                                                   ........... . ..
................ ------------- - - .. . . . ......... ................ ................ ................                                                ........ . ...... ...... . ...... .                              .... . .. . .....
tn                                        6                     a                    I         11          I                     I                     0                    I                     5                     I
.... . ........ .  ................ .... . .......... ................ ................ .... . .......... ......... . ..... --- - -----
UVEN101   NVUs'Ut    ;N'LLl%;    M1:01i;;    hi'la'M                                                        UNN'Ri    Hi'M14    ;WW'Sil   OWUL'Ut'i  JVM11i
................ - -- - ---------- ------ - - ------ ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- --- - --------                                                            - - --- - - ------
WWoi  I  HIMM                              LOUR                  311;;"t               ;M3M,                 WMI!                 UjL;'U                LaMM                  WWU                  'tiliit'it               ;M             U 0:8-41A
- - ------------- ................ - -------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------- - - ----- - - ------------- - - ---------                                                                                  -- - ----- -
C                    It                    It                    LE                  n  Ii                   ;i                   It                    g;                    ui                  N  LI                  J
. . ............. ................ - ----- .  ...... ................ ----- - --------- .......... . .... ----- - ---------                                                                                              --------- - - - ---------
MUSPUMOIN:                                       JIW)z                                       WIVIC                                                            WHIR                  11361it,  1311CCOU imumll N UV;
................          I........... .................................... . ........ ... .........                              ................
HAi4i                HM"it                 HIM$;   :  RM11i   :   Li4c.3;                                   H-%WCC                ii,' -;Z             UNCOIN                UAME                                                 SPUMN N SLTVI
............ . .. ....... . .... . . ................ ................ ---------------- ................ ............. . . ......... . . . .
'31,NAt              OVUM                  I i #W'ol             WCV16C                WN"N                  WHIZ                 Wiu-;z                W161118               tii'it"it            HOWN
........ - ------ ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------- ------------                                     ----------- - --- - -  --------
i at                                       i "T                                                                                                                                                                    rail .1
.............        ................ -- - ---------- -  - -------------- ---------------- -------------- -  ------ - -------- --- - - - -----                               --------              - ------- - ----- ----------- - - -     ----- -
601WIMIC   HOW111   : iteloiLliii   : MIMI";   : HURVIR   .1 Nil"O'llic   : 'LU'UVN,                                                                    iit'til'iii    M16CH11    M'JI'llt
-- -  ----------- ---------------- -------- - --- - -
oll'SH"M             NEVViLt    UNIM);    GOV1015t   110113'M                                                0031LI'llt  1. HLIUSINI    091118101    WIM11119  WIMIRC                                                         (SiillTum  ;=Vs
.. . ...... . .... ............. . . - ----- - ------- -------------- -  ---------------- ----- - --------- ---------- - - --
111rawl ;=S:  136awl                                MU                   TM               liars"U'Ut    SV431                          IMT3111-148 I Tmiiivm                            in              intunG                          9-driuu
- - ------------                           -    - ---- - ------------------- .. . . . ........
Isialaisu  : lsiainiiu                          jim                                                                                                          Um
ullil"Hu : uuisiG A   Al Wimu :ia mumilso:  Wall,   MMUS14-  dunswnw: it sawra : mossuo"Sum, lown"
rs;m Mm : SIZU 11=    naiaiiii    =051M :=MM ssua:311is"a 0=: rum                                                                                        imailsT : rvumml    nn=                                                       Ws;
166                  L146                  1116                  1316                 luill                awl$                   611;                  61%                   1116                 rati                        .1 mm



I'TEST,                                                                    W~~ Li~I    11z  TT;3l~;,     .
$Tali$        ;515    mv        Ion;;;it{;;ia$        lTA; ;; ;:'I,".=ti;;i't;:l:;                           ; :; UOR     U   ;;T"
................ ................ ----- ..............                                     ............... . .  .. . .. ...
: : : : : : s;J:;; : :S
|                                                                     :                   :                   :          ,        :                   :                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: ;ii ;;;::    ;;ss;w
*                                                                                                                                                                                               ;;'    ;'1                         : ;'11  *  i';
...........  ....................... . ... ............ ...........  ...........
:   :         .         :                   :  jay~~~~~~~~M IZ:"   ; V)    *al ';;           i i '-i 
: ~~~~................ ... :::............. ....:.. :.......... ................ ................ .... .... :..__... ..
:.......................... ..:......  .............. ............. ..... _:................. . . .........
:~~~~~~~~LME ;'.;:;   :   ;16; ;,i;::i;;;8ii: MI;;i;;;U:MW U                                                                     : cair;
: : : :............. ......... :._.... ------ -                            1 ----------  ----------
----------  .........  ........--------- ----- - -----  ...........    ...............
mli;;;         :    ;;;i;           :        MI                 la L;;ii    :      ;i           :' . iii -           -i, .1     Xi;
: :                 :        :          -                         :   
: ;;;;,z;                                                   W";W ;zI :: i; jc  MC
:;i ; ';iC          ::                                      :f ;5    ';ii    s: i;  ';ii               :':         ;ii::         U       :
------  -------                      .... _.:._...... ....: ...........  :-. _.:.... ._____.......... ................. ___..........
J;i ; ;;;i     :                                        :vz4  ;i;';Oi3;'1         WHAN;'. t              Bri'',;tii        Wi        :
:   :_...... .........  ................ ---------  ---------  ..............  ................. ._.___...........
.........  . . ..  __ ..:... ------- --...... .. .. :. ........ . . ...  .__. . .......
ij~ lflJj :ua 7 1;; wuA :   S; i   .                           St. :W uq;~ nu:                               a
:  i;i C:sn zu: ;li ;2:;Z ;;: LNNUIM :                                                                              :
..............--       ----------------        --------~* - --~--~ ....... .e                                   _        __- ---    ------------



sAtt'lX     at QI4a    na stSilZSas 3s as pt l;tss   IR in. SU24)(6i  $I  W¢   Hrrtl as cdf; ;|,=-P                  st;   Xt  m         tn t   tt =:3ruti    spt  
____:____:__~..........:_                  .__.:.........._ .: _                                _ .        .      _    . _ ..            _ .       :      _       _     _       _     _     :      _       _
:   :@; ttpsl;}:       : 01S3tSg  slJ§Jj:                   :                 :~~~~~~~:al :             u  'It  ::
:_____    __.............................:  .  _ ..  .__ .......,  ,,_._ ...........:_  .__ :.----_-._:.___:-------...........-....-_ .--__---.___-.....-...- 
:   :   :        :                 :                  :                 :                  :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~114 3:        : EI& I   :M   ss V P:::
: _ _ .:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- _ _ _                              --------  ---- -._.. _  ---------..                                 ---------._.._..:_. . _.:__ .__ .._ _ . :_     . :.
-~~~~ ~ ~ ------ -   ---------------    ------------     -                  -----            : ---- -; ----- - ------- -
: ____:___, _,_: ................................................. _.,:  ........... --,,--, , ...........-. .....:..__. ............: ____.........._  __ .......  __ __....................... : 
:   :                :         *        :                 :~~~~~~~~ii' E     : O 11.           :                 :-                       :  i;;n Lz i3 :       LVIVil;'3t1:';:^    7'
,> ~ ~ ~ ~~~~W               ia :         U1141;:;-;Ct      ;;S;.;       :3;i.-;              ;;;i;           :11I  ;;:U 'W ;-i';    ;ii.-.        :;-iz              :       ;;i';;;;3-i :;;-i3-|3;-   :M                       i : c U    :
s                     3;s;;:    ;Z;i:    s;;;:                                   ;;;;[: 3|iiiL:   ;.;.t   :LA                                           il;;;ili:   L;i,;,;    .;i;;i;                            MU= :  -u"Ni
:  s l   :  a  7  :   t       :      5t;        :         .        :      ;C~~~~~~~~~~ ;  :T  i;:;;;!  i2: -: lii;'    -:         n                 ;  ;       :       .   
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - ,- -,:.- ..............-------- -- - ---- - ------ -------------- - ---------,.-...  ..., .  -. -:--- -.-    .--.-- :...............  . .   -...:,  ,    --- ............  
:    *_9:  -Xe-  -o_:_.......................................-_ -  - ----:------_-  -_--- -............ _.  . ---------- .............-----_-----------.........   ....:  . ..._.  ._ ..:......__ -" *  __  
:017 i;U         lt: ;;;U;t:l 6WIS;U   il: ;;#Is;e:                                        : 0:;;;;;;zs:   .                    :                A         ;S;    ;Z;;                          ;u;C'l 
In -t';i:: :   a;ll :            :  ; vrc                 ;11 :   ;   Sii: CaNUTR ;ii  ;;;T .;
:,,,____ ,,,_,_ ._.,,_,_: Mr._.,:.__.....,, ,,    , . .                                                _ ._.....:..... .__ "a.................. _:--    M........... .. fire  jl....:_: ___ _._._0 __:lluILeum
:WG           W&UP ts  i;        ;I  wi i :    NZ;;a-;i    UN ;S-lit;;1  :       D .  1w :1M ;      -inimi- :        Og    i l:   In                 tai-;;;-i;.-i :l W"W -;i-     - W, In   am:NE i
-   ,._ -------. __                                    -..:_.  .,_ ___ .         _         ........................,,:    .._              __.......      _..    ..  .  ....  _.. -  ----- -_ -- ... -- -.. --------
:  Wi   .  ;; :;G;     ;l        :      Iti t;lL6;:    : &;                                  mwo i;       |-;-;-:  :vll              W;          ;;-;;-;Xz  i;-;-;;i                      JSi:tii W       =in ,
:   _._:._..................  ,,__: ...........__.:_ .............   _: ........__: _ .. _ .. _:  ... _ _................... _ .............A.....I.... .:_.___r...U :.____I_
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otl                                                                                                                               'Imi:usus;: u;        Et;;;l;    s.; : sr; : .c    : SX    IC;5   ;;;;x:AW1110810;;  :
:;nna;gm:   ;Dm;w:cmsaRv:   :tlrc.W;;    ;;m;tW:   srixi                                          :                                   : 
maxS;;l   |;";:    a3 aTtnaX;n                                               cU;    t;:;;aim: ALIO                           :  ;;nu            :tn miil=3;|                                          intNCN          :



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Statement of Disbursements Against SF4-MAG and 139



0'
eq
: l';i'oi  ;l    ;i;;;i:l;::i;';iGC;-;:                    LVCC-G ib .-o'e. i:  .;-; oiC                   ht' ;;;i;;&:T
:,,,,,, ~ ~    ~      ~    ~     ---------   ...,... .,-,-.,--.--,-,, ,:-:-,,,             -::-
s;~;:n~; S.~.g   n;,.~.8   S. ~     S~e      .~ .....t.,t         ...........                                                                              .........
lit Ot V~# I  t  It  u     'ira                           A   OuI       *b  OU    fU                      I
;;;  p;zaf: rrg~r:    :u :n on                                *m oI  n           *o  w  h+uiww                                  toor 
:                    :                    ::                                                               U*  
:----:-----:---------:--------:------- ---:--------------------               -                 :       - --- ........... ..-- -:..........
:--- --- _-- -------- --: .-_---  -.--_ - ---: --.                                            ---........................................------ ........--_
CIr Lt1u.X is SM1  SlX uiUlij IMUlUIS



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Scedule of Disbursements against SF4-MAG and 1391-MAG



ECHEANCIER DES DEBOURSEKERTS EFFECTIFS (SixiAme Projet Routiexi  (en DTS )
1984           1985       !   1986            1987          1988           1989            1990           TOTAL
Accord 1391_HAG
innuel             1.440.738.04  9.549.792.20  7.353.707.96  2.093.036.49  2.023.407.82    719.735.96            19.581.53 23.200.000.00
CuRulA             1.440.738.04 10.990.530.24 18.344.238.20 20.437.274.61 22.460.682.51 23.180.418.47 23.200.000.00
%                    6%            47%             79%            88%            97%            99.9%          100%
Accord SF4 HAG
Annuel               752.408.63  6.626.332.92  5.180.153.81  2.310.946.81  2.465.571.28   500.991.18            63.595.34  18.409.999.97
CuMule               752.408.63  7.378.741.55 12.558.895.36 15.469.842.17 17.935.413.45 18.436.404.63 18.499.449.07
%                    4%            40%             62%           84%             97%           99,7%           100%
TOTAL_
Annuel            2.193.146.67  16.176.185.12 12.533.861.77 5.003.983.30  4.488.979.10   1.220.727.14            83.176.87 41.699.999.97 w
CuMulh            2.193.146.67  18.369.271.79 30.903.133.56 35.907.116.86 40.396.095.96 41.616.823.10 41.699.999.97
5%             44%            74%            86%            97%           99,8%          100%



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Indicative Exchange Rates for ProJect Period



- 33 -
TAUX DE CHANW.3 INDICATIFS PENDANT L'EXECUTION DU SIXIENE PROJET ROUTIER
Taux de chanae (FMO/DEVISE)
Janvier                  Juillet                  Decembre
US$     DTS      FF      US$     DTS     FF       US$     DTS     FF
1985      -         -       -     682.09  686.36   74.50  623.36  668.02   78.17
1986     632.61  692.90   83.69  618.92  634.36   89.25  773.02  941.07  119.43
1987     768.52  945.90  121.07 1365.45 1740.16  223.06 1234.27 1744.92  229.16
1988    1268.51 1740.05  227.45 1431.83 1802.41  233.10 1526.43 2044.26  250.25
1989    1534.08 2049.27  249.36 1607.11 2047.99  250.13 1532.54 2014.01  264.40
1990    1532.69 2020.96  264.57 1506.18 2011.26  271.50 1472.26 2083.81j 285.21
22.02.91 11642.6812358.321 323.491   -         -       -   I _      I i _
_ _L_    I_ _     I_ _   _      I  _   _  _  __  I  __ _   ! _     I      I_ _ _ _  



- 34 -
PART III -STATISTICAL INFORMATION



DEMOCRATIC REPULIC OF MADAGASCAR
FIFTH HIGMAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT: PART I11-A. STATISTICAL DIFORUATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credite
Credits/Lomns to Highway Sector
Credit                                  Purpose                                   Year of
Title                                                                             Approve l                    Status        Cooents
Cr 90-MAO                               Construction to paved standard of         196S                  Completed in 1974   Cost overestimated
First Highay Project                    two sectionn of the Antananarivo-                               PPAR          1977  ERR underestimated.
US1  10 Sillion                         MaNhajnga road, totalling 146 km.
Cr 184-MG/Le 570-MAO
Second dighway Project                  Construction of 140 km of two mjor        19S8                  Completed in 1972   Low ERR for one sction.
US1 I million                           trunk roads and threo bridge.                                   PPAR          1975   80C overrun financed by
First Highway project.
Cr U51-MAQ/Lo 8764M                     Construction of 417 km of primary         1973                  Completd in 1977   Construction reduced by
Third Higwy Project                     road, engl_nering and review                                    PPAR          1978  67 km. ERR acceptable.
US$ 80 *TIITon                          of the traffic counting systm.                                                       Lack of road mintenance.
Cr 641-MlO                              Construction of 870 km of secondary       1976                  Ccopletod In 1968
Fourth Nighway Project                   road, and 67 km of primry road
USf 22 million                          deleted from the third H.Project.
Road Maintenance and training.



1. Related Credit (Highway S. continued)
Credit. to Other Transport Subeectors
Credit                                   Purpooe                                    Yeer of               status
Title                                                                               Approval
Cr 506-NAG Feder roads                   Construction of 170 km of secondbry        1974                  Completed In 1962
Rural development                   a    road  and maintenance of 260 km.
Cr $25-MA  Mdnnoro                       Construction and maintenance of            1974                  Complete  In 1960
Forestry proj et                         service roads, truck roads, and tracks
Cr 322-MAO Morondava                      mprovmnt of rural roads and               1972                  Completed In 1961
Rural dev lopewnt project                construction of feder roads.
Cr 214-NAG Lake Alotra                   Construction of farm rosds                 1970                  Completed In 1976
Irrigation project
Cr 200-MA Toamasinn                      Extension of Toamasina Port,               1970                  Completed In 1977
Port project                             techanssist. and training.
Cr 468-MA4                               Assist RNCFM in replacing                  1974                  Completed in 1979
First Railway Project                    outdaedd  quipment, and determnIn
ral lays'7prospects and requirements.
w



2. Projoet Timetablo (Fifth Highway Project)
Date                        Date            Date
it"n               Plannd                     Revised          Actual
- Identification                                                              1/77 (b)
- Appraisal                         9/78                                   9/19/78
Mission
- Credit                                                                    5/8/79
Nebgtiatione
- Board Approval                  6/7/79                                   6/21/79
- Credit Signing                                                           7/30/79
- Credit                           10/79                                   8/11/60
Effeti venee
- Credit                           12/82                      4/88            4/86
Completion
- Crd7it                         6/80/88                   6/0/86 (a)        8/6/86
Clos ng
Comes
(a) Closing date was revisd three time7:
6,84, 6/85, and 6/86
(b) Project brief: Oct.77



3. Credit Disburssm.nts (Fifth Highway Project)
Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(IDA, US3)
1960     1981     1982     1963     1984     19S6     1966                      TOTAL
1. Per FY
Appraisal EstImte                       1,000  16,800    6,700       500                                                24,000
Actual                                                    2,676      592   14,210    5,761      789                     24,000 (a)
Actual as X of *tim.                        OX       OX      471    l1X    -         -
2. Cumulated
Appraisal Estimat                       1,000  17,800  23,600  24,000  24,000   24,000  24,000
Actual                                                    2,678    8,270   17,460   23,261   24,000
Actuol as X of stim.                        OX       OX      llX      14X      78x      97X     100X
(EEC, USN)
1980    1981      1962     1983     1984     1986     1966                      TOTAl.
1. Per FY
Appraisal Estimat
Actual                                                             6,600      668                                        7,168 (b)
Actual as X of estim.
2. Cumulated
Appraisal Estimte
Actual                                                             6,600    7,168
Actual as X of estim.
(a) Cloeiag date June 1986
(b) Final amount in dollars; as the funds were of various european currencies,
these funds were estimted at US3 10.0 million at the time when the credit was signed.



4. Project Implementation (Fifth Hlghby Project)
Project Execution Schedule
Projected (SAN) Projectd  (SMN)         Actual               Actual
Item                                                 starting date conpletion date         strting date       copletion date       Coennt
Rsrfacing  nd rehabi I Ittion of   4 A MY7                    -110          XII-tl                111-41               XII-S4 Rehab.RN7 dropped.
UrIdge.- Aatechiy-AmhLnue  tred                              N-S1             X-St  .            YIII-4I                XII-S4 Portly dmaged by
Reed H ltASSSn   , equipment                                  X-D             X-S1                   n.a               XII-4 tUs cyclone K_misy.
heed MNanteeanc, Worbalhp bul di                             XIs x-t4         X-k1                  VI-4              VIKI-SU
Labtr-Ilteeive works *V-79                                                  III-O                    n.e                XI-82
Techeical n leten  for traiti ou                            IX40            IX42                  1142                 4I-
Technical mslstem  for read me_ ltenaac                      IV4-            IX42                   V-S1                VI44
Preimvestmmt stndies 3U61                                    IX41           1114-2                XII-U1                 IYV-
Fel lowship                                                   I-4           XII-S2                 1142                 continued in Sth project.
letlo  en reinforc_mt/roconetrectioe    Source    Legth AIn km    Length In km.           Start of work          End of work          Coments
Section nme                               of feed     et appralsal     (actual)
364, PK *20 to PK 549                      EECJBIi              29              29                 IV-2                  IN-U4  Satisfactorily completed
NUM, PK $ to fP   3                        EEC1I11              20              20                1IV44                X114-  Satisfactorily completed   w
_                   _         I~~~~~~~~~~'



S. Proj3ct Costs and Financing (Fifth Highway Project)
A. Project Costs
In US1 '000
Appraisal estimate                       Actual
Foreign Total                        Foreign  Total
Local   Exchange                     Local    Exchange
Costs    Coset   Cost.               COsts   Cost.    Costs
I.  Road rehabilitation                           2,924    7,591   10,515              2,828    6,081    8,909
II. Bridlds-Ant.ohihy-AmbanJa road                4,122    7,033   11,160              9,817   15,245   24,562
III. Road maintenance                             1,974   12,576   14,549              1,647    2,131    3,778
IV.  Labor-intensive works                          467      808       770
V.  Preinveetment studies RNIS                       93      889       932                24       218      242
VI.  Training by technical assistance               178    1,602    1,780                375    3,873    3,748
VII. Fellowships                                              so        S0
SUB-TOTAL I-VII                            9,768   29,998   39,768
VIII.Contingenclos                                1,998    8,968    5,966
Grand Total I-VIII                               11,756   33,986   46,722             14,191   27,048   41,289
Grand Total Net of Taxes                          8,954   38,96    40,920
UK provided a consultant to carry out a study for the
implementation of labor-intensive methodology.
3 engineers wre trained In France: The cost is included In VI.



S. ProJ et Costs and Financing (Fifth Highway Project)
S. Road Program Financing
in US1 '000
Appraisal estimat                                      Actual
IDA      EEC      RDM     TOTAL               IDA      EEC       RDV     TOTAL
I.   Road rehabilitation                          2,053    6,586    2,924   10,515               1,281    6,582    2,046    8,909
II.  8ridges-Anteohihy-Ambanja road               2,076    4,382    4,122   11,160             16,738    1,601    6,225   24,562
III. Road maintennce                             12,575              1,974   14,649             2,392              1,a88    3,778
IV. Labor-intensive works                           a03               467       770
V.  Preinvestment studies RNli                      839                 93      932                218                24       242
VI. Training by technical assistance              1,602                178    1,780              3,373               375    3,748
VII. Fellowships                                     sO                          SO
SUB-TOTAL I-VII                           20,098    9,900    9,768   89,768             24,000    7,183   10,066   41,239
VIII.Contingencles                                3,868       100    1,998    6,966
Orand Total I-VIII                               23,968   10,000   11,756   46,722              24,000    7,183   10,0568  41,239
(Tnxoe included)
UK provided a consultant to carry out a study for the
implementation of labor-intensive methodology.
3 engineers wore trained in France: The cost is included in VI.



S. ProJoet Remsita (Fifth Highy Projoet)
Objectives .t Appraisal             Reslt.                                        Objectivoe  at Appraisal             Reslte
A.1   *mtrtacig and partial rehabili-   Works completed on RN4 only, dwe          0.1   A study te determin whieb            One conltat fitnlced by Ul
tation of so5 km of pavd road       to furtber detriorotlon.                      minteamc could be carried            carried out the study.
on 14 and 1111.                     R1iafrcoment/roconstrction of                  ut by labor-Intonsive
49 km on Rl4. Good supervision.              work metbods.
A.2  Purchas of 400 tos of bit            No moeti  of Its purchase In            D.2  Then, defIne a 2 yer-damonstrtio   The raslIt of the hoveo stuy
for ma Intenace.                    the eupervision rq.orts.                      prora.                               were ueed i. the  sixth poject
to the programme of Ocaetoanse.
0.1   Constructin of brides on AN:        Work comploted but partially            E.   Fesibility and detailed  ni-          The study wa carried out but
* mJor bridge and 14 other          da_ed by the cyclone Kamisy.                  nrlng studios for 170 km of          not completed. Rportedly, studies
strucure  and 20 la of approacbes. Good suparvilon.                               RN 13.                               and prl imisery engineerlng "  th
rehabilitation Of 1100 m *S -ad
0.2  The govoramnt will Improve the       Works completed but daaged by                                                      on 04 and RN7 carried o., a.,
remainr of the Antehihy-AmbenJa   the cycloe KaI-y.                                                                    completed.
road.
F.1  166 sme-mwths of technical assi-   7 specialste selected S0 loc l
C.1   Creation of a cetral unit for       Created (See Coveant.)                        stance to Improve the mintennc    Instructors sod 27 engliscrs
road m_intenanc  headed by o                                                      orpanixtion In two regional          trained.
alagasy  ngineer.                                                                 di strict.
C.2.1 Technical asn toance to dfine a    A report in flve volumes comploted
detailed program for routine and     including a su mery, and four          F.2  72 men-months of technical assl-    No mntion In the suparvision  4-
periodic maintenance, outlioe the   detailed rport. Introducing                   stance  to train locrl staff in      rports.
requirementa and setup a *mintenanc  technique  for management of works,          labor-intensivo methods.
organization.                       Road Inventory carried out in the two
regions and extended In the others.
A rood mintenance program was          0.   Fellowships to train local staff      3 Engineers trained in Franc.
designed                                     in specialized aspects of highway
aintenanc.
C.2.2 Procurement of eupipmt and spare  Procuremnt completed.
part. for the mintnance brigads.
C.2.B RegravelCing training brigade       According to files,
for each of the two regions:        seven brigades constituted,
4e chiefs, 64 operators, 48 helpers 600 km  o maintenance carried
and 80 drivers over two year, and  out by the brigades, in ddition
400 km to be regravo lld.           to 400 km carried out Ly
contractors, In 1664.
C.S  Improvement of workshop buildings   Five workshops partially
and procurmnt of tools In fIye    rehabiltated.
regional district centers.



- 43 -
t. Status of Covenants (Fifth Highway Projoct)
Covnennt re.                         Comitment                               Compliance
In Crodit                                                                    record
Agreement
8.06         to establish a central admlnistrative unit for road mint.-    Complied with
"once to be headed by a qualiflid and experionced staff by
January 1, 1960 and be provided wlth adequatod aupp rting
staff.
8.06         Agree on specific work progra  procurement of equipment         Not compliod with. However a
and  t0rloalt and staff noee  following completion of a         study carriod out under UK
study for Introducing labor-intensive works.                    tinancing has determined those
which has been usod to design
the Sixth Highway Project.
3.07         Agreo on number and kind of fellowships for training of         Complied with  followi,ig out-
MPW staff.                                                      line by training consultants
under Credit 641-MAO.
8.06         Sections of roads to be regravelled shall be restricted to      Complied with.
those having an economic rat. of return of at lest 1PX.
3.10;        Carry out a training progrm for road mintenance for             Complied with.
UPW's staff.
3.10b        For carrying out the training program under Section 3.10(a)    The consultant. started In
(1) employ consultant. no later than January 1, 1960 and    Novomber 1980.
(11) consult with tho Association on consultants reco-
emendations under (i).
8.10C        To construct tho training facilities.                           Complied with.
4.01         To adequately maintain roads for which MPW has rosponsibl-      Not fully complied with. Road
lity.                                                          maintenance was neglected for
a long time reulting in 
continued deterioration of the
network. However, efforts are
now underway for the better-
m=nt of road maintenance
operations.
4.02a        To cover cost. for maintening the primary and secondary
roads:
(1) allocate at loest FPU S,000 million and cause provin-    Not Complied with.
ces to allocate at least FMO 960 million for opera-
ting cost.: and
(11) allocate at loeat FMU  1,000 million for equipment       Not complied with.
renewal and mko best effort to obtain such addi-
tional amount as hall be required (estimated at
PMO 1,100 million).
4.02b        Exchange views with the Association on the adequacy of          (I) Complied with.
budgetary allocation for road maintenanco.
4.02b        Make above allocations availablo to regional district offi-    (11) Complied with In FY84.
ce" promptly as needed.
4.06         Take necessary actions to ensure that dimenslons and axle       All portable scales and weIgh-
loads of vehicles be consistent with structural and geo-        bridges have been delivered.
metric deslgn standards of highways.                            (Their installation Is Included
under the Seventh Project).



S. U. otf Bank R"eorcs (Fifth Highway Project)
A. lissions
Stg. of           Date                  Doys         Number of      Staff days
Project Cycl-                             In field        perons
Throug Appraisal    Jam.77                      6               1               S
Apr.78                   1C               1              1S
Appraisal throug     Sep.78                    1S               2              0
BOard Apprevol       Feb.79                    15               1              1S
Board Approval       Sep.79                    12               2              24
Through              Jan.80                     9               1               9
Effectivenese
Supervieson          Nov.30                    12               1              12
Jun.,)                    9               1               9
Feb.8                    1                1            .1
Jun.Z                     7               1               7
Sep.32                   18               1              1
Jul.$P                   10               1              10
Oct.8"                   10               1              10
0Oc.34                   10               1              10
WMr 8S                   12               1              12
Apr.36                   20               2              40
TOTAL                        1i7               19             234 
Source: Bank Project File
Note: The Fourth Highray project was cloed In 1983 and supervied
at the same tWin as the beginning of the fifth projoet.
Idm for the sixth project which bepn in 1994.



Annex. Project Costs and Financing by disbursement category (Fifth Highway ProJ..t)(**)
A. Project Cost by Category
in Utl '000
Appraisal  stimate                      Actual
Foreign Total                       Forelgn Total
Local   Exchange                    Local   Exchange
Costs    Cost     Cost.             Costs    Coa      Costs
I.  Rehabilitation and reurfacing of roads          2,716    6,759   9,475              2,69W    4,907    7,605
II. Construction of bridge  and approaches          4,122    7,038   11,160             9,216   14,387   23,655
III. Workshop buildings, Material, Maintenance      1,129   4,976   6,104                 870      922    1,792
IV. Road maintenance Equipmnt, tool and Fuel          U46    7,600    8,446               777    1,209    1,986
V.   Consultanto'serv7ceu and training                946   3,626    4,572                680    6,673   6,303
S61-TOTAL I-V                                9,758   29,996   89,760
VI. Contingencies                                   1,998    3,968    5,966
Grand Total I-VI                                   11,766  83,966   46,722             14,191   27,048  41,239
Grand Totsl Net of Taxes                            6,954  88,966  40,920
(cc) The IDA and EEC actual expenditures come from the
Loan disbursement report; The Actual total cost
come from the last supervision report.



Annex. Project Costs and F;nnncing by disburement catogory (Fifth Highway Project)(0*)
B. Road Program Financing by category
in USS '000
Appraisal estimte                                  Actual
IDA     EEC      RDM    TOTAL              IDA     EEC      ROM    TOTAL
I.  Rehabilitation and resurfacing of roads      2,063   5,234   2,848   10,186             4,206      1 0   3,290   7,6O0
II. Construction of bridgs and approachos        2,148   4,362   3,990  10,500             11,431   6,248   5,674  23,553
III. Workshop buildings, Material, Maintenance   .W,975           1,129   6,104             1,357               196   1,652
IV. Road mintenance Equipmnt, Tool and Fuel      7,600              845   8,445             2,218                     2,218
V.  Consultante'eervices and training            3,322      304     946   4,672             4,789      826      697   6,311
SUB-TOTAL I-V                             20,098   9,900   9,758  39,756             24,000   7,188  10,066  41,239
VI. Contingencies                                3,868      100   1,998   5,96
Grand Total I-VI                                23,9e6  10,000  11,756  45,722             24,000   7,183   10,0S   41,239
(Taxes included)
(me) The IDA and EEC actual expenditures come from the
Loan disbursement report; The Actual total cost
come from tho laat supervision report.



DEMOCRATIC R9PALIC OF MADAGAA
SiXmH HIIAY PROJECT
PRECT COWLETIOH REPCRT: PART 1114. STATISTICAL INFOMTIOH
1. Related lA  Losrs and/or Crdits
Credits/Loss. to Highway Soctor
Credit                                  Purpoe                                    Y"r of
Titlo                                                                             Approval                     Statu         Coemm"
Cr SA                                   Coestruction to psed sandrd of            1o6                   Completd in 1974    Cost overestimated
Firt Hilway Project                     two sections of the Antananarivo-                               PPAR          1977  ERR underestimted.
US1 10 at II on                         Mahajanga road, totalling 145 km.
Cr 114-A/Leo 570-A
S cred Hlghey Project                   Coestructlon of 146 km of two mjor        196                   Compld in 1972   Low ERR for one setion.
USt S millilen                          trunk rosds and three bridge.                                   PPAR          1976  SOX overrun financod by
First Highway project.
Cr   -MC/Lo  9764MA                     Contruction of 417 km of priary           1971                  Completed In 1979   Constructlon reduced by
Third Highway Projet                    road, engineering snd review                                    PPAR          1976  67 km. ERR acceptable.
U51 s0 mIlison                          of the traffic counting system.                                                      Lock of road mintenance.
Cr 641-M                                Constructlon of 370 km of secondary       1976                  Completed In 1963
Fourth Highway Project                  road, and 67 km of primry road
US$ 22 mlillon                          deleted from the third H.Project.
Road Maintennnce and training.
Cr 963-MO                               Resrfacing snd rhabiTlitation of RN4    1979                    Completed    1968
Fifth HI gy Project                     Construction of brldgs for RN7.
USt 24 ml lion



1. Related Credits (Sixth Highway Projet, continued)
Credits to Otber Transport Subsetors
Credit                                   Purpose                                   Year of               Status
Title                                                                              Approval
Cr 506-M   F    r rod                    Construction of 170 km of seondary        1974                  completed in 1962
Rural development                        roa nd mintenance of 260 km.
Cr C25-A  Magoro                         Con. uction and mintenanc  of             1974                  completed In 1980
Forestry project                         service roads, truck roa, and tracks
Cr S22-M    Morondavs                    Improweont of rural roads and             1972                  completed In 1961
Rural development project                construction of feeder roads.
Cr 214M   Lake Alotra                    Construction of farm roads                1970                  Completed in 1976
Irrigation project
Cr 200-MO Toamasina                      Extension of Toamsina Port,               1970                  Completed In 1977
Port projset                             tech.assist. and training.
Cr 486-MA                                Asist RNCFM in replacing                  1974                  Completod in 1979
First Railway Projoct                    outdated equipment, and determine
railways0proepects and requiremnts.
Cr 905-M                                 Continuation of the first Projoct         1979                  Completed in 1984                        OD
Second Railway Project                   Strengthen the Railway's financial
Managomnt



2. Project Timetable (Sixth Highway Project)
Date                      Date           Date
Ites             Planned                   Revised         Actual
- Identification                                                        10/80 (a)
- Appraiesl                       4/82                    7/82        11/26/32
Miseon
- Credit                          4/83                    5/83        5/19/88
Negotiations
- Board Approval                 8/U3                                 6/23/88
- Credit Signing                                                     11/16/88
- Credit                         10/88                                2/14/84
Effectivenee
- Credit                       0/30/88                12/31/89        7/12/90
Completion
- Credit                       6/80/88                 6/30/90        6/30/90
Cloeing
(a) Project brief: 8/81



3. Crodit Disbursements (Sixth Highway Project)
Estimated and Actual Disburse  nts
(IDA, US1)
1984    1905    1966    1967    1988    1989    1990                          TOTAL
1. Por FY
Appraisal Estimte                      3,500   14,000   13,000   13,600    1,000                                     45,000
Actual                                         10,860  14,485  11,206   5,330   2,700         450                    46,000 (a)
Actual as X of *.ti..                      OX     78X    liX        83X    533X
2. Cum ulated
Appraisal Estimate                     3,500  17,600  30,500  44,000  45,000  45,000  45,000
Actual                                        10,860   25,315  38,520  41,850  44,560  45,000
Actual as X of estim.                      OX     62X    8U        8aX      93X      99X    1OOX
Closing date: June 90
U'
0



4. Project Implemntation (Sixth Highway Project)
Project Execution Schedule
Projected (SM) Projected (SM)           Actual                Actual
Itm                                                   etarting date completion date         starting date       completion date      Cernest
Road Rehabilitation                                            1-84          XII-S6                  IX-84               XII-?
Road Maintenance, Worlshop construction                        1-84          XII-84                  VI-84               XII-86
LNTPO Improvesnst                                              1-84           VI-84                VIII-4                XII-8
ITP Managst, Technical Assistnce                               1-84          XII-s                 VIII-84               XIU-6
Training Progrm                                               VI-84          XII-U6                    n.a                  nao
Transport Industry  spar parte                                 1-84          XII-86                    na*                  n.o
Preinveatent studies                                           1-84          XII-86                  IV-86                 X-S7
Organization studies                                           I-84         VIII-84                  IX-84                IX-sO
na.* Dates not avoilable
_______________._ -   _______________________________________ _ -- =
VI



S. Project Costs and Financing (Sixth Highway Project)
A. Project Costs
in US3 '000
Appraisal estimato                      Revised (so)
Foreign Total                       Foreign  Total
Local    Exchange                   Local    Exchange
Cost.   Costa   Costs               Costs    Cost.   Costs
I.  Rehabilitation and Maintenance              16,530   29,790   46,320             47,900   71,220  119,120
II.  Improvement of LNTPB                           90      830       920             2,090    6,830    8,920
III. Training                                      120       850      970               520    1,450    1,970
IV. Road Transport Industry                      1,500   10,000   11,600              1,500   10,000   11,600
V.  Consulting service                            1,130    6,750    7,880             1,130    6,750    7,880
SUB-TOTAL I-V                            18,370   48,220  66,590              53,140   96,260  149,390
VI.  Contingencisn                                3,790   11,360   15,140             3,790   11,350   15,140
Grand Total I-VI                                22,160   69,670   81,730             56, 930  107, 00  164,530
(Net of Taxes)
(so) Calculated from the suporvision reports.



5. Puj.et ut  mmd Piasmlg  (11   SUdu   ,Je)
3. bed P,gvmPimm
Appraisal emUm_i.                                                        m.14  (")                                                     1   (in)
JA        O    AfID    0         T01AL             -       5m      ADI       IM       NW       WC    U.K.    TTAL                MA       m
I.  _bUbI  tio NW _bi 1mu.ao ls.SM                                      *.JO    46.=             1.M,             41.000    ,8100  210.000   5.0             119.120           1U110  22.56    Sm
n. UEF  5i1_   I                                                           2                                                                 8.000     o,2
Lm. raslie1                                     a                         am       gm               an                        1m                      1.00    1.9No
IV. bud T_eepot ssawsbt                      10.                        1,80   211.0             10.000                     I.o00                             11.,o
V.  CamUatlug ernIe.                          8.8      1.400            1.,0  .,0                 8.8      1.400            1.1                               7.0
SD-TOrAL 1-T                           11.718   1.4,    9.20   12,277   U.800             56.738   1.400  4.000  3.277  20.000  13.00    1.000  149.800
nI. cemti.gmmgiee                             11.i                       SU,   15.140            11.27                      $.I                               16.140                             k
mmd TUI I-V                                   45.00    1.400   19.200  1.180 U   1.7110          4S.000   1.400  4S.000  89.180  20.000  13.000   1.000  164.8
0@b of Taxe)
(mm) Cegml_d frow th  es 1_r,io ,epeee.                                                                                                                                     Detailed eepdwilture  for
ce..) Ceimltd 1row PensIal imf.rvmtle       ,, gollece  at  field.                                                                                                           th other cammte no
available. Average .acbaa
Dl_nhwA by atepoy (MA)                                                                                                  rate sood troug.o.A
In    '000
Appealul eetimmt              Actual          Sre-:  ne Depmt
Civil ieta            12,700                    16.40
CionoSlWag .myme              4.910                    11.61 _
S1p_m fl. _I_J_.                           S                        4.110
4par PM    for Trruepfv Iadeatq              9i,2O                    9.119
hla loat eda
TOTAL           41.700                    41.700         (equivalent US$ 4S   ii)



S. Project Cost  *nd Financing (Sixth HIghwy Project)
C. Cost and Financing
in USO '000
Appraisl *.ti,t,                        Revisd
Forein  Total                       Foroign  Total
Local    Erchang                    Local    Exchange
Costs   Cost      Cost              Cos      Cost     Cost
I.   IDA                                                 46,000  45,000                      46,000  46,000
II.  IFAD                                                 1,400   1,400                       1,400    1,400
III. AfDS (1)                                    6,080   18,170  19,200              6,400  88,600  45,000
VI. Gave,eo                                     16,130            16,180            89.130            39,130
V.  EDF  (1i)                                                                        6,000   12,000  20,000
VI.  Swiss Cooperation  (ii)                                                         8,000   10,000   18,000
VII. U.K. (it)                                                                         400      600    1,000
Un
Grand Total I-VII                               22,160   59,670  61,730             66,930  107,600  164,630
(t) AMD Increased its financial contribution after appraisal.
(11) EDF, Swiss Cooperation and the U.K. became co-donors after appraisal.



6. Project Rsults (Sixth Highway Project)
Objectives at Appraisal              Rsu Iuto                                       Objectivos at Appraisal             Results
A.1   Rehabilitation, spot lmprovemant      150 km satisfactorily reha-             E.1   Supervision by contractors of       RN4, RN7 and RNS sWtirtactorily
of rural and fueder roads:           bilitated.                                     rehabilitation of RN4 and RN7 and  supervised. 160 km of feeder
160 km in Highland rice project      Improvemnt works on RNG(74 ki)                 tho maintenance of 900 km of        roads In Highland rice project.
750 km in Anteohihy-Antanannrivo     completed   20  ricdges of NO.                 feeder roads. Manage the brigades.
A.2.1 Patching and rseallng on 2600        Works reportedly carried out but         E.2.1 General survey and Inventory of    2 studies reportedly carried out,
km of pewvd roads.                   no evidence In the supervision reports.        the network on 2600 km of roads,   expanded and completed
and devolopment of 2000 km of       (se  below)
A.2.2 Spot Improvemsnt, regravelling,       Works reportedly carried out but               feeder roads.
regrading of rural roads:            no evidence In the supervislon reports.
160 km in Highway rice project                                                E.2.2 Cesign a routine road maintenance  Studies carried out for lprovement
1860 km In agri. and indua. areas.                                                  progra  and a resurfacing program. of 3000 km of feeder roads,
maintenance of 4100 km of paved
A.2.3 Labor-Intensive operations on the    Light road maintenance operations by                                               roads and 1800 km of engineered
10,000 km network: Cnntonnage.       Labor-intensive methods set up                                                     erth roads.
by UK experts. Works reportedly carried out.
E.2.3 PreInvertment studies for these    Reportedly used as base documents
program.                           for preparation and appraisal
A.2.4 Seven multi-purpose maintenanc        7 brigades constituted under                                                      oh the Highway VII project.
brigade. Each brigade wilI           the Highway V project. a00 km
maintain 400 km of paved road        maintained in 108B and 400 km            E.3.1 Provide 2 exports to Improve        An in-line manager appointed.
and 100 km of earth road a year.      in 1989.                                      the MTP0s management.               Services satisfactorily completed.
A.2.5 Improvem    t of two workshops.      Delivery of equipment completed.         E.3.2 Finrnce a study to assess and       Organization studies carried       wn
recommend additionnal changs.      out. The results are usd to       %A
A.8.1 Rehabilitation of 400 km of RN4.      200 km satisfactorily completed                                                   set up a m*nagement tem in VIP.
2B9 km completed later.                                                           (mm below)
A.8.2 Maintenance of RN4 and RN7:          Rehabilitation of RN7 financed           E.4   Establish a transport planning      A permanent road managoent unit
drainage structure, widening of      by AfD.                                        unit. Provido transport exports.   was reportedly established In MTP.
som  sections...                                                                    Training and technical assistance.
B.    Improvemet of LNTPB: provide          Equipment delivored.                    E.5.1 Technical assistonce: 3 labor-      Training program carried out by
equlpmt and qualified personnel   See Technical assistance E.5.2.                    Intensive experts and 5 road       3 experts.
for about USS 900,000.                                                              mintenance experts, to carry out
the training program.
C.1   Training on Transport coordination,  Reportedly, 17 enginers, 11 technicians,
Management and road maintenance:     and 273 operators were trained by        E.6.2 Technical assistance: Solis         3 engineers, local consultants,
730 existing employes and 1865       consultants. No reports as to                  engineer for identification         1 expert from UNDP and another
now employees to be recruited.       continuation of the training progrm.           of local materials for use In       from SDC for lmproveomnt of
road works.                        LNTPW . They *Ias  assisted in the
C.2   Provide equipnt and exports to        Training progrm completed                                                         execution of the overall
implement the training program,      by consultants.                                                                      aintenance program, and the
prepared by consultants.              (se above)                                                                        rehabilitation of workshops.
D.   Provide US5 10 million In foreign    7 distributors selected. All
exchange and allocate US8 16 million the spare parts ordered and
annually to meet the private          distributed for USS 10 million.
trucker's need for spare parts.      No evidence of the availability of
US816 iliion yearly.



- 56 -
7. Status of Covenants (Sixth Hlghway Project)
Covenant ref.                        ComitAent                               Complianco
in Credit                                                                    record
Agreemnt
3.01 (d)     By December 81, 1988, open an account In the Central Bank       Complied with.
for funds coming from the sole of tho *pare parts.
3.05         Approval by IDA of Individual training Program.                 Complied with.
3.07         By June 80 of oach yoor a road maintenance program should       Compiled with.
be submitted to IDA for approval.
3.08         Tho Borrower will create a transport planning unit by           Complied with.
December 31, 1988 In the Ministry of Transport; by December
81, 1984, submit for IDA's review and comments the reco-
mm ndations of tho Notlonal Transport Planning Study; and
the appropriate actions.
3.09         By September 80 of oach year during the project execution,      Complied with.
The Borrower and IDA should exchange viows on Borrower's
proposed lnvostment in the highway sub-soctor.
3.10         By December 81, 1988 establish tho Government Solis Labo-       Complied vith.
ratory as a soparate entity.
4.01 (b)     Auditing requirement.                                           Complied with.
4.02         By January 81, 1984 provide FkG 6 billion budget and FMO        Complied with.
600 million colses doavoncoo; and by December 81, 1986
exchange viows with IDA for further financing.
4.08 (b)(c)  Allocate at least US8 16 million foreign exchange each          Partially complied with.
fiscal yoer for the Importation of spare parts for              USS 6 million provided
commercial transport enterprises; and exchange viows with       for 1987.
IDA by Docember 1986 for further allocations.
4.08 (d)     Limit Importation of vehicloo to those meting welght and        Complied with.
dimension requirements.
4.04         By December 81, 1988 prepare road safety program and take       Complied with.
actlon by June 80, 1984.
4.06         Create seven multi-purposo brldgos responsible solely to        Complied with.
the Minister of Public Works.
4.06         Increase road transport tariffs by March 81, 1984.              Complied with.
4.07         By December 81, 1984 deregulate road transport tariff and       Complled with.
routes



8. Us. of Bank Resources (Sixth Highway Projoct)
A. Missions
Stags of           Date                  Days         Number of      Staff days
Project Cycle                             in field         persons
Through Appraisal     may 81                    10               1              10
Sep.82                    1s               1              16
Appraisal through    Nov.82                     15               3              45
Board Approval
Board Approval        Jul.88                    10               1              10
Through               Oct.88                    10               2              20
Effectiveness
Supervision           Mar.84                     7               2              14
Oct.84                    10               2              20
Mar.85                    12               1              12
Jun.85                    10               1              10
Nov.86                    20               1              20
Apr.96                    20               2              40
Sep.96                    26               8              78
Sep.87                    10               2              20
may 88                     7               1               7
Sep.88                     7               1               7
Feb.89                     7               8              21
TOTAL                          196              27             349                                                              Ln
Source: Bank Project File
The fifth higway project was closed In 1986 and supervesed
with the beginning of this project.



MADAGASCAM
Annex. Road Longth Maintained
1,964             1,965             1,966             1,987             1,968             1,969
1,914I'                   Im                 I'"?
MAITENACE
Periodic Maintenance (Ku)                40J               468               206             1,014                780
Cost In FO  lillon                       260               628               25U               6c6               u48               694
Routine Mainteance (Km)                8,206             4,798             6,929             4,626             4,584                nan
Cost In FUG million                    1,048               481               788             1,210             2,746                n.n
Total Cost in FG *isli.o  1/           1805                9U4             1,041             1,766             3,291                n .
Dollar equiv.(000s)                    2,006             1,403             1,652             2,294             2,691                n.n
Exchnge  rate                            6O0               60                680               770             1,270              1,660
Source: Direction dbn Routes
1/ Information on administrative costa was not available. Howevr, the addition of maintenance expenditures and 1978 administrative coat.
adjusted for the depreciation of the *xchange rate, exceed fUG 6 billion for each year of the project as stipulated In the Credit Agreement. 
us
O
I.'
x~



ot RMl
Yoaa     R.h.b7 1_
Uaf                       m taibntefte
_     ,6s                           Ae  S   A *ace
los         3,ito                                              vo sn OC*vine           R
1og?                             49                28
1I"                              49                28
1o"                              49                28             1,012            (8, 07m
49                23             1012 
_a       Xtaton            Uninten'_
a"           mai~tntons-
Is"8       17,000                            affftf-           vo :,9   °*vin9 g
t2170              90               1-                 2Se
log,                            170                so
1992                            170               so              6,848           (10 Uo0)
St9hY VZ/ Rehab,,1,                            0                9  21          SJ40               0.66
~~~~~~itto o90                                                                 6,4               0, °.220
_,X    tation             lt 1nteno
_ ,         ~     ~      ~~nC  m (nton_-
Is"       12,47                nan                              °C*w,9We
Ing8                            240               120          42wlXw"                 si
1989                            240               120
19go                            240                    A          $,log
1984                               170                9
1866 1,oS                          170°1    (l,o
186w                     17~~~~20      1 90              6,8q,           41,910)
1988   IttloA .@20                              ao      0               6,846          4 ,6
-4         8,849                                                        6,267
.............  "ca   V. and                                   120 aln...                            ,26
1986  -12,14                                                VOC                                                      'angER
lOeg                             240               12
Is"8601   2#4010,0(22)
log?,  1,041         1   240          (120                   ,i0
o.d Ih    loftAt?"                           240               120,1o498
es612 2,0lo
we



