Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                          __        ___
Report No. P-3556-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 41.7 MILLION CREDIT (US$45.0 MILLION EQUIVALP
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1            =  FMG 375
FMG 1,000      =  US$2.67
FMG 1,000,000 = US$2,670
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                                = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer                                = 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)                   = 0.386 square mile
1 square meter (m2)                        = 10.76 sauare feet
1 hectare (ha)                             = 0.01 km  = 2.25 acres
1 metric ton (m/ton)                       = 2,204 pounds (lbs)
Abbreviations
AfDF      - African Development Fund
BADEA     - Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BNI       - National Industrial Development Bank (Bankin' Ny Indostria)
CATP      - MTP Training School (Centre d'Application des Travaux Publics)
CCCE      - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CCM       - National Tender Board (Commission Centrale des March4s)
DPCH      - Road Maintenance Division (Direction des Ponts-et-Chaussees)
DGE       - Directorate of Works (Direction Generale de l'Equipement)
DGP       - Directorate General of Planning (Direction Gengrale du Plan)
DI        - Division of Infrastructure (Direction de l'Infrastructure)
DMAT      - Equipment Division (Direction du Matgriel)
EDF       - European Development Fund (EEC)
FAC       - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IFAD      - International Fund for Agricultural Development
LESP      - National Technical College (Etablissement d'Enseignement
Supgrieur Polytechnique)
LNTPB     - National Soils Laboratory (Laboratoire National
des Travaux Publics et du Batiment)
MIC       - Ministry of Industry and Commerce (Ministere de l'Industrie
et du Commerce)
MPARA     - Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de la Production Agricole
et de la Reforme Agraire)
MTP       - Ministry of Public Works (Ministgre des Travaux Publics)
MTRT      - Ministry of Transport, Supplies and Tourism (Ministare des
Transports, du Ravitaillement et du Tourisme)
RN        - National Road (Route Nationale)
vpd       - Vehicles per Day
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Public Works (MTP) and Ministry of Transport,
Supplies and Tourism (MTRT).
Amount:                 SDR 41.7 million (US$45.0 million).
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:  Objectives:
The proposed project will continue and expand
efforts to improve the condition of the road network
started under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects. Its
principal objectives are to (i) permit efficient and
reliable transportation on the country's high priority
roads by improving their condition; (ii) continue the
strengthening of the road administration's capacity to
maintain the road network and repair the Government's
equipment pool; (iii) improve transport coordination and
planning; and (iv) begin rehabilitation of the country's
commercial vehicle fleet.
Components:
(a) a three-year maintenance and rehabilitation program
(1984-1986) consisting of (i) spot improvement,
rehabilitation, and maintenance of about 2,470 km of rural
and feeder roads (including about 300 km in the area of
the Highlands Rice Project), (ii) patching and resealing
of about 2,500 km of paved roads, (iii) routine
maintenance on the entire "economic" road network of
10,000 km, and (iv) the rehabilitation of about 280 km of
RN 4 and RN 7;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(b) improvement of the National Soils Laboratory;
(c) training of Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry
of Transport, Supplies and Tourism personnel;
(d) assistance in the rehabilitation of the road transport
industry through the financing of spare parts; and
(e) consulting services for supervision and management of
works, preinvestment and management studies, and technical
assistance for the National Soils Laboratory, for staff
training and for transport coordination.
Benefits:
Maintenance of the economic road network which carries
about 90 percent of the total traffic in the country and
rehabilitation of the principal north-south axis
traversing the most populous region of the country and
linking the major centers of economic activity; support to
specific institution building and policy reforms; and
encouragement of and support to fostering efficiency and
competition within the country's road transport industry.
Risks:
The main risks associated with the project arise from the
possible shortage of local counterpart funds for the
maintenance component and from NITP's capability to manage
and execute force account works. These risks should be
mitigated by the establishment of a financing mechanism to
ensure adequate, timely and easily accessible funds for
road maintenance, by using contractors to carry out part
of the civil works and through the technical assistance
provided.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:                   ------------US$ Million----------
Local         Foreign         Total
I.   Rehabilitation and
Maintenerace Program                   15.53           29.79          45.32
a) Maintenance by
Contractor (470 km)              ( 2.05)         ( 4.77)        ( 6.82)
b) Maintenance by
Force account                    ( 7.05)         (10.02)        (17.07)
c)  Rehabilitation and
Supervision of RN 4
and RN 7 (280 km)                ( 6.43)         (15.00)        (21.43)
II.  LNTPB  Equipment                         0.09            0.83          0.92
III. Training                                0.12            0.85           0.97
IV.  Road Transport Industry                  1.50          10.00          11.50
V.   Consulting Services                      1.13            6.75          7.88
Base Cost                                   18.37           48.22          66.59
Contingencies
Physical                                 1.24            3.71           4.95
Price                                    2.55            7.64          10.19
Total Project Cost                          22.16           59.57          81.73
Financing Plan:
----------(US$ million)---------
Local         Foreign         Total
IDA                                                         45.0           45.0
AfDF                                         6.0            13.2           19.2
IFAD                                                         1.4            1.4
Government/BNI                              16.1              -            16.1
Total                                       22.1            59.6           81.7



- iv -
Estimated Disbursement:                                ---      US$Million------
Fiscal Year        Annual          Cumulative
1984              3.5               3.5
1985              14.0             17.5
1986             13.0              30.5
1987             13.5              44.0
1988              1.0              45.0
Economic Rate of Return: 42 percent on 90 percent of project costs for which
benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4399 a -NAG.
Map: IBRD 16909



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TEIE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A SIXTHI HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for SDR 41.7 million
(US$45.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Sixth Highway Project. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has agreed to cofinance
with a credit of US$1.4 million for technical assistance on standard IFAD
terms. The African Development Fund has agreed to cofinance with a credit of
16 million Units of Account (equivalent to about US$19.2 million) on standard
AfDF terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled  "Madagascar - Economic Memorandum" dated November 3,
1981 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic updating
mission visited Madagascar in November/December 1982, and its Report MAG (83-4)
entitled "Current economic Situation and Prospects" dated March 20, 1983, was
distributed to participants of the Madagascar Consultative Group MIeeting April
27-29, 1983. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
3.         Madagascar, with a population of 8.7 million and a per capita GNP of
about US$315 in 1982, is among the poorest countries in the world. It is a
sparsely populated country (about 14 persons per square kilometer) with less
than 20 percent of the population living in urban areas. Although generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are
considerable regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau,
the most economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate,
the South is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils, the
eastern region has a tropical climate and although rich agriculturally, crops
are frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about
35 percent of GDP; about 85 percent of the population lives in rural areas, and
agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the country's export
earnings. Total exports accounted for only about 16 percent of GDP in 1974-81,
a rather low share in comparison with most low income developing countries.



- 2 -
4.        Mladagascar's development over the past decade has been disappointing.
With a population growth around 2.8 percent per annum, real per capita GDP
decreased by about 1.5 percent per annum; in 1982 per capita real income was
probably about 25 percent below its 1972 level. During the years 1972-1978, the
years immediately following the Revolution, when the country left the Franc zone
and greatly reduced the closeness of its ties with France, successive
governments embarked on wide-ranging changes in the economy by taking over
nearly all large enterprises and considerably extending control over economic
activities, especially agricultural commerce. There followed a period of
economic stagnation, during which, public finance and balance of payments
management remained however, cautious and conservative.
5.        In 1978 the present Government adopted a significant new economic
policy orientation in undertaking a large expansion in public sector investment
with greatly increased reliance on external sources for its financing.
Investment outlays increased in volume terms by about 13 percent per annum
between 1978-80 and the share of investment in GDP, which had been about
14 percent since the early 1970s rose to around 21 percent in 1979 and 1980.
The increased investment and the attendant imports coincided with virtually
stagnant export earnings and a deterioration in the terms of trade, so that
Madagascar's balance of payments deteriorated very sharply in 1979 and 1980 and
the resource gap reached almost 17 percent of GDP. General government and state
enterprises accounted for nearly all the increased investment expenditures and
the overall budget deficit increased dramatically.
6.        The benefits of the surge of investment were at best short-lived.
There was a growth of real GDP of almost 10 percent in 1979 covering all
sectors, mainly because of higher imports of raw materials and spare parts, the
jump in activities associated with the higher investment level, and because of
good weather benefitting agriculture. However external payments already began
to run into difficulties in 1980 and foreign exchange shortages grew
increasingly severe through 1981 and 1982. Domestic savings declined
continuously from around 11 percent in 1976 to 3.2 percent in 1982, a large part
of the decline being due to the deterioration in the terms of trade.
7.        The performance of the agricultural sector from 1979 on was less
disappointing than in the immediately preceding years, but nevertheless
unsatisfactory. Output grew by 7 percent in 1979 and except for a drop of
1.5 percent in 1981 continued to grow by 2.5 percent p.a. In 1982 output was at
its highest level in seven years, but still below the levels in 1974 and 1975.
Much of the result of 1979 was due to exceptionally favorable weather. Since
then the weather has been poorer and there have been shortages of inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and improved varieties of seeds. The production of
rice, the staple of the Malagasy diet, varied little between 1979 and 1982, with
slight declines in 1981 and 1982, in 1982 due to an important extent to the
effects of the severe cyclones. There were considerable differences amongst
other crops. Most export crops had somewhat higher outputs in 1982 than in
1979. In the case of coffee the increase was only about 2.5 percent, but output
reached the highest level so far obtained. Cloves went through a peak of the
clove cycle, beginning at the trough in 1979, almost tripling in 1980 and



- 3 -
declining slightly thereafter. Vanilla also picked up from a very low level in
1979 and almost doubled by 1982. These three crops accounted for over
70 percent of merchandise exports. A number of minor crops were mainly
responsible for the overall agricultural growth of 1982, although their outputs
had fluctuated before that. Notable among these were manioc, potatoes, and
pulses. However cotton production, which, from 1979 on, had been consistently
lower than in any year since 1972, reached a new low in 1982.
8.         The drop in industrial production, including mining, has been
especially sharp. Industrial output reached its peak in 1979, in which year it
grew by 12.8 percent, the highest annual growth rate ever achieved by the
sector. After that, it fell slightly in 1980 (-3 percent), and then
precipitously in 1981 (-34 percent). The decline continued in 1982
(-6 percent), so that production at end 1982 had dropped to 70 percent of the
level in 1979, lower than in any year of the 1970s. Output in every branch of
production was lower in 1982 than in 1979, with the exception of petroleum
products, which reached a peak in 1980. A particularly serious aspect was that
the output of some basic consumption items (soap, shoes, matches, batteries) had
dropped by well over one half since 1979.
9.         The central government's finances in 1978-82 clearly reflect the
investment boom and the subsequent efforts to restore equilibrium. Total
expenditures more than doubled between 1978 and 1980 and declined slightly in
1981 and 1982, when the inflation rate was much higher. The overall deficit
swung from 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to a peak of 18 percent in 1981 and then
down to 9 percent in 1982. The recurrent budget contributed little to the
swings since expenditures and revenues moved roughly in line. The main cause
was the capital budget, which more than quadrupled between 1978 and 1980 and
declined by 57 percent from 1980 to 1982. However, other government
expenditures, mostly Treasury on-lending and general government expenditures
from the export crop stabilisation funds, have grown continuously and in 1982
exceeded capital expenditure. Despite considerable growth in nominal terms,
both revenues and recurrent expenditures generally declined in real terms, after
1980. The growth of revenues, which averaged 11 percent p.a. from 1978-82, has
been greatly slowed by the deterioration of the economic situation, although a
number of measures were taken to increase taxation in 1982. The growth of
recurrent expenditures in nominal terms was kept down to an average of 10
percent p.a. by the Government's efforts to abide by the Stand-by agreement with
the IMF.
10.       The investment boom and the ensuing stabilization policies are also
reflected in the money and credit figures for the years 1978-82. The net
foreign asset position of the monetary system deteriorated rapidly in 1979 and
1980 and more slowly in the next two years.  Net domestic credit rose by about
50 percent in both 1979 and 1980, but by only 51 percent from 1980 to 1982. The
expansion was overwhelmingly in net government borrowing from the central bank;
at end 1982 it was 58 percent of total net domestic credit, as compared to 31
percent at end 1978. Long term foreign borrowing rose from less than 2 percent
of the monetary system's liabilities to 19 percent, the greater part of the
increase in 1981-82 being due to the rescheduling of external debt.



-4-
11.        Available price information indicates accelerating inflation over the
last year or two. The official cost of living index for Antananarivo, which is
likely to understate the actual price rises, showed an 18 percent increase in
1980 and about 31 percent in 1981 and 1982. The implicit GDP deflator shows a
parallel development with a 15 percent increase in 1980, a 25 perc:nt increase
in 1981, and a 34 percent increase in 1982.
12.        The balance of payments has also been affected by the investment
spending of 1978-80, but the sluggishness of exports and the difficulties in
reducing imports have made restoration of external equilibrium especially
difficult. In 1978 the current account deficit, which had averaged around FMIG
19 billion (US$85 million) in the immediately preceding years, began to rise
rapidly to reach FIG 127.5 billion (US$603 million) in 1980, i.e. from less than
2 percent of GDP to over 18 percent. The overall account had been roughly in
balance in 1978 but was in deficit by FMG 53 billion (US$251 million) in 1980.
Transactions with the rest of the world had been financed by a total exhaustion
of reserves, an unprecedented degree of foreign borrowing, and by incurring
substantial arrears on external payments obligations. The Government began to
take strong measures to restore equilibrium in 1981 and 1982, notably by tightly
restricting imports and by negotiating arrangements with the IMF and the Paris
Club. It succeeded in reducing the overall deficit to FMG 31.4 billion (US$90
million) in 1982, thanks to the agreements reached with the IMF and the Paris
Club as well as some exceptional balance of payments financing, but it failed to
improve significantly the current account, whose deficit in 1982 was still
US$350 million.
13.        The main reason for the failure to improve the current account was
that capital goods imports, which were tied to the existing financing
arrangements and on-going projects, continued at very high levels through 1981
and 1982.  Imports had increased roughly 90 percent in dollar terms between 1978
and 1980 and, while all categories had increased, the growth of imports of
capital goods was particularly marked, accounting for about half the total
increase. The total volume of imports grew by 33 percent in this period, but
price increases were also substantial, increasing at roughly the same rate. The
foreign exchange shortages that began in 1980 and grew much worse in 1981-82
obliged the Government to restrict imports where it could. The categories of
raw materials and spare parts and of non-food consumer goods suffered most,
though the Government ensured that energy imports covered essential needs. Food
imports increased because bad weather, including serious floods, reduced the
rice harvests. The sluggish export performance aggravated difficulties. During
1978-1982 the volume of exports stagnated. Coffee, the main export, was
seriously affected by the international market situation, first by a drop in
prices in 1981 and then by the ICO quota restrictions. Earnings from the other
two main exports, cloves and vanilla, were also constrained by world demand.
14.        The IMF Board approved its first Stand-by arrangement with Madagascar
in June 1980, but, since the Government failed to limit its expenditures
sufficiently, the program was suspended, though some of the other measures in
the program had been implemented e.g. increasing revenues. A second Stand-by
agreement was concluded in April 1982 providing for drawings of SDR 109 million



(US$130 million) by June 1982. This agreement too had to be suspended because
unanticipated shortfalls in export earnings and smaller inflows of capital from
commercial banks than expected made it impossible for the Government to abide by
the program for more than part of the period. A third Stand-by agreement, for
the period to June 1983, was approved by the IMF Board in July 1982. This
arrangement makes available SDR 51 million (US$57 million) in addition to
SDR 22 million (US$24.6 million) under the CFF. Like the previous arrangements
it places restrictions on the Government's spending and borrowing from the
Central Bank, on external loans of less than 10 years' maturity, and has targets
for the reduction of external payments arrears. It also provides for
devaluation of the Malagasy Franc, which, having been pegged to the French Franc
until it was pegged to a basket of currencies in April 1982, had already
depreciated about 50 percent against the dollar since April 1981. The exchange
rate in February 1983 was FMG 400 to the US dollar, as compared to an average of
FMG 272 in 1981 and FMG 375 in 1982.
15.       The growth of Madagascar's external indebtedness and the considerable
hardening of average terms have made good debt management crucial. Total
external debt (outstanding and disbursed) at end 1982 was US$1,258 million as
compared to US$244 million at end 1977. The debt service ratio has risen from
around 4 percent in 1977 to about 45 percent after rescheduling in 1982 and the
ratio can be expected to rise still further in the next three years if there is
no further rescheduling. Madagascar now faces a rising debt servicing burden in
the next few years. A Paris Club meeting took place in April 1981, as a result
of which Madagascar obtained debt rescheduling of about US$36 million covering
the period January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982. In July 1982 the Paris Club
approved a further rescheduling of maturities falling due in the period to end
June 1983. Approximately US$115 million (of which US$24 million short-term) of
maturities were rescheduled. A London Club meeting in March 1983 resulted in
rescheduling of outstanding commercial bank loans, although the amounts and
conditions are not yet known.
16.       The economic crisis and the greater dependence on external donors have
prompted the Government to question many of its policies and to appreciate that
a sustained improvement in the economy's performance requires considerable
policy reform and a more systematic approach to the balance of payments and
public investment. Of the weaknesses underlying the economy the most harmful
has been the persistent low productivity of agriculture, the result of many
complex factors among which are the lack of price incentives, inefficient state
marketing, and shortages of inputs. In industry, commerce and transport price
controls and shortages of inputs have posed equally serious problems, which are
compounded by uncertainties over the role of the private sector. The
Government's domestic expenditure emphasized for a while increasing public
employment, the social sectors, and investment, so that the shares of economic
activities and of materials and services in expenditures declined seriously.
One especially grave consequence has been inadequate maintenance, and hence a
deterioration, of infrastructure, particularly of roads. On most of these
points the Government has either begun to take action or is working out new
policies. A major step has been the preparation of a public investment program
for 1983-85. This program, apart from bringing government investments in line



-6-
with projected resource availabilities and ensuring a degree of coordination
between ministries and agencies that has been lacking in the past, emphasizes
rehabilitation and maintenance rather than new investments.
17.        Circumstances have overcome the Malagasy authorities' preference for
minimizing the country's dependence on the outside world.  One aspect of this
change is an emphasis on exports, both traditional and new, in place of the
earlier tendency to give them low priority. It does not, however, appear
possible to increase export earnings rapidly in the medium term. Relations with
external donors and financial agencies have also undergone considerable change
as is demonstrated by the preparation of the Stand-by arrangements and the debt
reschedulings. Further steps have included the decision to open a Bank
Resident mission in the country (the resident representative took up his post in
March 1983) and the holding of a Donors' meeting in June 1982 to close a
financing gap for the year. It was then agreed to establish a Consultative
Group chaired by the Bank, which first met in April 1983. The public investment
program and a Government statement of policy reforms, proposed or already being
implemented, were presented to the CG meeting.
18.        The World Bank group provided about 45 percent of the concessionary
assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over the same
period, however, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has been from
non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a concessionary
basis will be required to support the Government's economic restructuring and
development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external
debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should
continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
19.        IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$343.89 million, and Bank loans
total US$32.58 million. Since 1975, about 36 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport, 29 percent for agriculture, 18 percent for electric power
and petroleum, 7 percent for industry and water, 5 percent for technical
assistance and 5 percent for education. IFC's first investment was in 1977 for
the expansion of a textile mill. In 1980 IFC made a US$1.25 million loan for
the Bata shoe manufacturing company in Antananarivo and an investment of
US$7.44 million for the Pecheries de Nossi-Be; other projects are under
preparation. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
20.        Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the key
areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure), agriculture
and energy. In infrastructure, four projects have provided for the construction
of all-weather highway links between the island's different regions and one
project for road maintenance. There have been projects to improve Madagascar's
main port of Toamasina, and to support the railway's modernization efforts.



- 7 -
Urban infrastructure development has benefitted from a water supply and
sanitation project for the capital city of Antananarivo for which a US$20.5
million credit was signed in May 1980. In the social sectors, education has
been the major recipient of Bank assistance with two credits totaling US$18.8
million. In addition, studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with
the Bank as Executing Agency have led to preparation of a project for urban
development. We began lending to the industrial sector with a first US$5
million DFC credit to the Industrial Development Bank of Madagascar (BNI) in May
1980. In addition, a credit of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit
project was signed in June 1981.
21.        Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of three livestock
development projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects, an
agricultural credit project and a rice intensification project. A US$2.3
million technical assistance credit to prepare projects in the Plain of
Antananarivo area was signed in January, 1981, and a US$5.7 million technical
assistance credit for an Agriculture Institutions project was signed in June
1982. We expect agriculture to continue to absorb a large share of Bank Group
lending, in line with Government strategy to expand agricultural production.
Further rural development and crop production projects, including one for
cotton, are being prepared.
22.        Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention;  IDA
participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the large Andekaleka
hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June 1982. A US$12.5
million credit for petroleum exploration promotion is supporting the
Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve
planning in the energy sector. The Tsimiroro heavy oil exploration project was
approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1982.
23.        In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate.financial performance of project
agencies. The first Village Livestock project was delayed by institutional
problems. The credit was renegotiated in 1977, and since then implementation
has been reasonably satisfactory. The road construction component and
maintenance studies of the Fourth Highway project are nearly completed.
Construction under the Fifth Highway project has begun. Disbursements under the
Second Railway Project are almost completed. However, disbursement of the
railway credit was suspended on June 25, 1982 pending government action to
correct major deficiencies affecting the railway's operations. They were
resumed in December 1982, after the Goverment had implemented a satisfactory
financial recovery program.
24.        Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department.   The Audit Report No. 1622 of December 1976
on the first Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally
successful. However, the Impact Evaluation Report No. 3600 of August 1981
concluded that earlier assessments of project performance had been



- 8 -
overoptimistic, and that the actual economic rate of return was probably
negative. The Audit Report No. 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle
Development Project concluded that the Project had contributed little to
Madagascar. The Audit Report No. 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third
Highway project was well justified and had a good rate of return despite
substantial cost overruns. Report No. 2299 of December 1978 conci"ded that the
physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved
but pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority. With the exception of the port project, the technical assistance
components of all four projects were executed satisfactorily.
25.        In fiscal years 1980-82, disbursements for Madagascar totalled about
US$70 million compared to new commitments of US$96.5 million. In the same
period, the average annual disbursement rate (rate of disbursement to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent. This is about average for countries of the
Eastern Africa Region. Disbursement performance in general is satisfactory.
PART III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
26.        Madagascar's transport system comprises nearly 50,000 km of roads of
which about 4,900 km are paved; two unconnected railway systems totalling 860
km; 4 main ports and 11 lighterage ports of some significance; and 56
airfields. The only navigable waterway is the Pangalanes Canal along the east
coast. The system is inadequate in that it fails to provide access to some
productive areas of the country. In addition most existing transport
infrastructure has been poorly maintained over the last decade. As a result of
the poor condition of the surface transport infrastructure, Madagascar has
developed an air transport network that is denser than that of most comparable
countries in East Africa as well as an extensive system of ports and coastal
shipping. A Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) was issued in February 1983
(Report No 4057-MAG).
Railway
27.        The railways are operated by the Reseau National des Chemins de Fer
Malagasy (RNCFM).  The rolling stock and locomotive fleet are generally adequate
for present traffic, but their condition is poor and productivity is low due to
maintenance and operational problems. The track is also in very poor
condition.  Progressive renewal of the locomotives and wagon fleet and
rehabilitation of the track have been carried out under two projects supported
by the Bank Group. RNCFM has also been plagued by financial problems which
resulted in a credit suspension by the Association. The Government mounted a
financial recovery program, including (i) complete financial autonomy for the
railway, (ii) reimbursement of Government arrears and appropriate procedures for
payment of current bills, and (iii) tariff increases. The Association resumed
disbursement following introduction of this program.



-9-
Air Transport
28.       International air services are provided by foreign carriers and by Air
Madagascar, the national airline, which has a monopoly on domestic service.
Air Madagascar's financial condition has drastically deteriorated in recent
years, in large part because of service provided to many small airports which do
not generate enough revenues to cover the cost of the service. Air Madagascar
is required to provide this service for social reasons; without it these areas
would be isolated. In the past Air Madagascar was able to use the profits from
its international routes to subsidize domestic service. However, due to rising
costs and a declining load factor, it is no longer able to do so.  To improve
the situation, in 1982 service was terminated at 12 small airports, and tariffs
were increased in October 1982 and again in early 1983. Other measures being
considered include (i) the Government sharing Air Madagascar's deficits, (ii)
abandoning unprofitable services as other transport alternatives become
available, and (iii) studying the viability and alternatives of continuing
long-distance international services.
Ports and Coastal Shipping
29.       Madagascar relies almost exclusively on shipping for foreign trade,
while coastal shipping is important as the only means of transporting freight
between many areas of the country with no access to all-weather roads. The four
main ports are Toamasina (66 percent of the traffic), Mahajanga (11 percent),
and Antsiranana and Toliara (4 percent each). Most imports and exports pass
through Toamasina which is adequately equipped to handle present traffic. !
Equipment in the secondary ports, on the other hand, is generally old and in
poor condition. Port traffic has stagnated due to the economic slowdown over
the past decade. As a result, there is considerable overcapacity in the ports,
especially Toamasina. FAC is carrying out a study on ports and coastal
shipping, the purpose of which is to introduce more effective and economic use
of infrastructure and to consolidate operations.  In view of this overcapacity,
in the short to medium term it appears that investment should be limited to
selective rehabilitation and modernization for specific and well-justified
reasons, e.g., to handle container traffic.
The Road Subsector
30.       The road network comprises 49,650 km of roads, of which about 4,890 km
are paved, 5,260 km are engineered earth and gravel roads, and 39,500 km are
feeder roads and tracks. The main road in the network is the north-south
axis--RN 4 and RN 7--stretching from the regional center and port of Mahajanga
in the north, to Antananarivo in the center and continuing to Fianarantsoa in
the south-central region. As a result chiefly of a lack of maintenance, and to
a lesser degree of overloading of trucks, the road network is in poor
condition. About 80 percent of the paved roads show signs of deterioration; of
these fully 50 percent require full rehabilitation to restore the pavement to
serviceable condition while 30 percent require resurfacing to avoid further



- 10 -
deterioration and costly repairs. Most earth and gravel roads are in an equally
poor state. Many of them are impassable during the rainy season and some have
deteriorated so badly that the areas they serve are becoming isolated.
Road Use
31.       The growth of the vehicle fleet has slowed considerably in the past
several years due to the stagnation of the economy and the shortage of foreign
exchange to buy new vehicles. Imports of new vehicles and spare parts decreased
significantly after 1980; as a result only 50 percent of the motor vehicle fleet
is operational. Traffic has generally remained constant since 1978 and has
decreased on some secondary roads. The average daily traffic (based on regular
traffic counts) ranges from about 1,000 vehicles on paved roads near main cities
to about 20 vehicles on earth roads.
Administration, Staffing, Training and Construction
32.       In principle the Ministry of Public Works (MTP) is responsible only
for national roads, while the regional administrations are responsible for
regional roads and communities for the feeder roads and tracks. In practice,
however, ITTP's assistance is sought for all significant maintenance and
improvement works on the entire 50,000 km network. This overextension of MTP is
one of the problems impeding adequate road maintenance. To alleviate this
problem, the Government has selected, with the Association's assistance, a
limited network --the "Economic Road Network"-- for the maintenance and
rehabilitation of which MTP will be responsible. This network of about 10,000
km includes 4,300 km of paved roads (about 90 percent of the country's paved
roads); 3,300 km of engineered earth roads (60 percent) and 2,400 km of feeder
roads. These roads are the most heavily used in the country, carrying about
90 percent of the traffic, and are essential to the country's economic
development. In the short to medium term the maintenance and improvement of the
remaining 40,000 km of roads and tracks will be carried out as appropriate and
economically justified under rural agricultural, health and sanitation projects
with technical assistance from M4TP. The improved tracks will gradually be
transferred to MTP's responsibility as its capacity increases. A study will be
carried out under the proposed project to determine the appropriate means and
organization to maintain and improve these roads.
33.       MlTP's technical operations are grouped under the Directorate of Works
and include (i) the Division of Infrastructure (DI), which is in charge of
design and construction; (ii) the Road Maintenance Division (DPCH), which plans
and executes road maintenance operations; and the Equipment Division (DMAT)
which is responsible for the purchase, storage and maintenance of equipment,
spare parts, materials and supplies, and for the operation of workshops. While
still relatively new, this organization appears well-adapted to MTP's needs and
has begun to yield operational improvements. A shortage of qualified and
experienced staff at all levels is hampering maintenance operations. Engineers
and technicians, employed by MTP, receive practical training at MTP's training



- 11 -
cetnter (CATP) which is being rehabilitated and equipped under the ongoing Fourth
Highway Project.  1. additLon, consultants are training 32 Malagasy instructors
to carry out training among MTP staff. The proposed project will continue and
expand the program at MTP's training center.
34.       The Division of Infrastructure (DI) is responsible for feasibility
studies, final engineering and construction supervision. Most design
construction supervision is carried out by foreign consulting firms and their
affiliates. A Government-owned consulting firm, DINIKA, participates in road
construction design and supervision in joint ventures with foreign firms. MTP's
national soils laboratory, LNTPB, conducts soils investigations for construction
of civil structures, assists consulting firms and DI in designing and
supervising these works, and carries out research on the use of local materials
for construction of these structures. Under the proposed project, LNTPB's
activities will be expanded to assist DPCH in executing road maintenance
operations. To improve LNTPB's efficiency, the Government has agreed to
establish LNTPB as a separate legal entity, under the responsibility of MTP, to
be operated on a commercial basis with complete financial autonomy by December
31, 1983 (Section 3.10, draft Development Credit Agreement).
35.       Major construction works are carried out almost exclusively by foreign
contractors and their affiliates. A Government-owned firm has participated in
some of these works but has experienced managerial and other difficulties;
arrangements are being made for it to enter into joint ventures with foreign
firms. Two domestic private contractors compete successfully in building
construction; they will be encouraged to participate in the construction of
workshop facilities under the proposed project. Delays have been encountered in
implementing construction works because of the lengthy and cumbersome procedures
of the National Tender Board (CCM) which is responsible for all procurement
matters. Although MTP recently shortened its internal procurement system,
improvement is still needed in the overall system. The Government, therefore,
has agreed to shorten the procedures by ensuring that (i) a CCM representative
assist MTP in the preparation of bids, (ii) all interested Government officials
attend CCM's decision meetings, and (iii) duly authorized representatives from
all ministries and agencies concerned gather at one meeting during which the
contract documents will be agreed for the final signature; contracts will then
be approved within 15 days of this meeting.
Maintenance
36.       During the past decade the Government has concentrated on extending
the road network by building new access roads to regional economic centers but
has paid little attention to maintenance.  The Government recently decided to
reorient its policy and focus most of its manpower and financial resources in
the subsector on rehabilitation and maintenance, specifically on the "economic
road network" (para. 32). The Government, with assistance from the Association,
has improved its maintenance operations. MTP has been reorganized and a central
unit (DPCH) given overall responsibility for maintenance of national roads.



- 12 -
Road maintenance equipment has been regrouped at the regional level, and
regional engineers have been made accountable to DPCII for the carrying out of
maintenance operations. Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies are
being provided under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects. To maintain this
equipment, five workshops are being equipped and improved. The prL posed project
will continue to build on these efforts.
37.       Road maintenance is financed from the general budget while new
construction is financed from the investment budget which comes mainly from
external sources. Since 1975, an average of FMG 1.9 billion (US$5.1 million)
per year has been allocated to road maintenance, well below the US$11.8 million
minimum FMG 5 billion required under the Credit Agreement of the Fifth Highway
Project to adequately maintain the entire network. This requirement was not met
due to misallocation of resources. In addition, these funds were often
disbursed late, thereby interrupting and delaying the works. Therefore, the
Government has agreed to establish a financing mechanism to ensure adequate and
timely funding for road maintenance operations. As a means to implement this
mechanism, and until a road fund can be established, the Government will make
FMG 5 billion (US$13.3 million equivalent) available to MTP in 1984 for road
maintenance operations, and by January 31, 1984 will open a "Caisse d'Avance"
(revolving fund) in its Treasury, with an initial deposit of FMG 600 million
(US$1.6 million) to be replenished quarterly, which will be used exclusively for
road maintenance. By December 31, 1984 the Government will establish a Road
Fund in the Central Bank. The national petroleum company, SOLIMA, will deposit
monthly and in approximately equal installments, revenues from taxes and duties
on motor fuel into this account. The Government will ensure that for 1985 and
1986, a minimum of F4G 5 billion is deposited into the Road Fund, taking into
account domestic inflation and the volume of maintenance operations. By January
1, 1985, the Government will establish a new "Caisse d'Avance" under the same
conditions as the previous one except that this "Caisse d'Avance" will be in the
Central Bank and will be replenished from the Road Fund. In order that
provision be made for financing road maintenance after project implementation,
the Government and the Association will exchange views by December 31, 1986 on
the estimated funds required for road maintenance for the next three years. The
Government will take the measures necessary to ensure that such funds will be
available to MTP as and when they are needed (Section 4.02, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Sector Management, Planning and Coordination
38.       While several ministries and Government agencies have some
responsibility for managing the sector, the two most important are the
Ministries of Public Works (MTP) and of Transport, Supplies and Tourism (MTRT).
MTP is responsible for planning, building and maintaining highways, ports and
airports; MTRT is responsible for transport operations in all modes, management
of the ports (except Toamasina) and airports, and oversight functions for RNCFM,
port of Toamasina, Air Madagascar and the state shipping companies. Others with
significant responsibility in the sector are the Ministries of Industry and
Commerce and of Agriculture, the Army and the Directorate of Planning (DGP).
The fragmentation of responsibility has made transport planning and coordination



- 13 -
difficult and ineffective. Overall sectoral planning theoretically is in the
hands of the Planning and Programming Unit in MTRT. It has been unsuccessful
because its staff is too small and inexperienced, and it has been accorded too
low a status in MTRT. Under the proposed project this unit will be upgraded and
provided with technical experts to help it perform its important task
(para. 65).
39.       In the past, intermodal coordination was not considered of great
importance since the transport systems operated relatively independently.
However, as the subsectors have developed, intermodal planning and coordination
have become indispensable.  The proliferation of transport organizations and the
continously expanding role of the public sector have led to duplication of
activities, overlapping functions and conflicting objectives of different
organizations. A unit will be set up to plan and coordinate transport
activities to avoid waste and duplication (para. 65). Beyond that, the
Directorate General of Planning was transferred to the Presidency from the
Ministry of Finance, and the accompanying elevation in status of that agency
should benefit overall transport planning.
Sector Investment
40.       During implementation of the 1978-80 plan the Government made
substantial investments in the road network, air transport facilities, and in
trucks, ships and aircraft. While transport's share (27 percent) of total
investment outlays was not excessive, the apportionment among modes has resulted
in overcapacity in some areas (coastal shipping, ports) and undercapacity in
others (road transport). Moreover, these purchases of equipment have
contributed to the increase in the country's debt and have burdened the
finances of some of the transport parastatals. More significantly, the
maintenance of infrastructure and equipment was neglected with a consequent
deterioration in quality and a rise in the cost of transport services. In view
of the failure of controls over investments and the poor economic outlook, the
Government, with the Association's support, has embarked on a program of
economic reform, including the preparation of a 1983-85 public investment
program with improved controls over investment.
41.       Under the proposed investment program about 26 percent of total
investment outlays of FMG 396 billion (US$1.0 billion) is allocated to the
transport sector.  Of transport's share, 68 percent is for road transport, 13
percent for rail, 12 percent for air and 7 percent for ports and shipping. Both
the overall size and subsectoral composition of the new transport plan are more
in line with the needs and constraints of the country than previous plans.
Given the financial constraints, a number of the small sub-programs or projects
not included in the proposed project and which do not have any other source of
foreign assistance will have to be deferred or phased out. The Government has
agreed to exchange views with the Association on its program of new highway
investments by September 30 of each year during the execution of the project
(Section 3.09, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Road Transport Industry
42.       The country's total vehicle fleet is estimated at 30,000 vehicles, of
which 13,000 are light vehicles and 17,000 commercial vehicles (11,000 utility,
1,000 buses and 5,000 heavy trucks). The main element of this fleet is the
heavy trucks, 2,000 of which are owned by the Government and 3,000 by the
private sector. The private sector of the industry has been relegated to a
secondary position in the allocation of scarce foreign exchange for new vehicles
and spare parts. As a result more than half the heavy truck fleet is out of
service for lack of spare parts. A recent FAC report of the sector estimated
emergency spare parts needs, i.e., what is needed to overcome the maintenance
backlog and to put the entire motor vehicle fleet back in operation, at US$20
million, of which US$10 million is the minimum required for the truck fleet in
private hands. It was also estimated that the normal recurrent needs for the
total fleet are US$20 million for spare parts of which US$15 million is required
for commercial vehicles, both public and private. The proposed project will
include a scheme to help meet the emergency needs of the private road transport
sector (para. 61). At the same time the Government has agreed to ensure that
each year during the execution of the project a quota in foreign exchange of at
least US$15 million equivalent is made available to commercial transport
enterprises to import the spare parts required by them to operate efficiently
(Section 4.03 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). During the last year of
project implementation and not later than December 31, 1986, the Government will
exchange views with the Association on its estimated import programs for spare
parts for commercial transport entreprises for the next three years (Section
4.03 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       Passenger transport is regulated by MTRT.  Rates are not reviewed
frequently enough to reflect changes in operating costs. MITRT's planning unit
(para. 65) would carry out a national transport planning study which will
include recommendations on road user charges and fuel prices and taxes, as well
as the cost and structure of road passenger services. The study, whose terms of
reference would be approved by the Association, would be completed by December
31, 1984. After submission of the study and its recommendations to the
Association, the Government would promptly take appropriate action taking into
account the Association's comments (Section 3.08, draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Traffic Regulations and Safety
44.       The enforcement of regulations governing truck weight and dimensions
is lax, but the Government has agreed to act immediately to ensure that the
importation of vehicles is limited to those that fall within the legal weight
and dimension specifications for road use (Section 4.03 (d), draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Minister of Public works will have the sole authority to
approve the technical aspects of import licenses for trucks, assembly licenses
and road licenses for these trucks. Laws governing road safety are adequate but
enforcement is lacking. The Government will prepare by December 31, 1983 an
action plan for road safety and taking into account the Association comments,
implement this plan not later than June 30, 1984 (Section 4.04, draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Transport Policy and Issues
45.       In order to reassess the situation and help the Government reorient
its sectoral policy framework, a transport sector review was carried out in 1982
and based on its findings and discussions with the Government, a Transport
Sector Memorandum (TSM) was issued in February 1983. It identified the
following areas as those deserving urgent attention: need for financial
recovery, need to enhance the efficiency of the road transport industry,
improvement of pricing policy in the sector, need to shift emphasis from
construction to rehabilitation and maintenance, improvement of sector planning
and coordination, and need for increased manpower training and technical
assistance. While the dialogue induced by the TSM has brought about
substantial change in government's strategy in the sector -- such as increasing
transport tariffs, shifting emphasis from new construction to rehabilitation and
maintenance, and concentrating operations on a limited priority road network --
further action on these issues (some of which are discussed below) is still
necessary and will be taken under the proposed project.
46.       Government has already stated its intention to enable the private
transporters to compete on equal terms with the public sector.  Its agreement to
the proposed US$10 million allocation under the credit for spare parts purchases
exclusively for private transporters is a first indicator of this seriousness.
By December 31, 1984, government will remove all restrictions on the selection
of routes and commodities to be transported by private transporters and will
deregulate all tariffs for road transport, unless otherwise agreed by the
Association on the basis of reasons satisfactory to the Association resulting
from the study referred to in para. 65 (Section 4.07, draft Development Credit
Agreement). Further increases in tariffs for road transport are needed to
correct the serious imbalance between costs and tariffs. During negotiations
the Government informed the Association that tariffs for road transport will be
increased by 40 percent before July 15, 1983 and government agreed to consider
this event as a condition of effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
(Section 6.01, draft Development Credit Agreement). Another increase in tariffs
for road transport to a level acceptable to the Association taking into account
price variations, will take place not later than March 31, 1984 (Section 4.06,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector
47.       Bank Group lending to the transport sector has amounted to US$134.4
million for eight projects. Lending has comprised five highway projects with a
total of US$104 million, two railway projects (US$19 million) and a port project
(US$11.4 million).  Further, several Bank Group agricultural projects have
included feeder roads. The focus of the first three Bank Group projects in the
highway subsector was on helping the Government pursue its objective of
providing better road access to regional economic centers. The three projects
financed the construction to paved standards of a total of 708 km of roads.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) for the three projects indicate that
recalculated ERRs for individual roads are generally acceptable.   The most



- 16 -
important lesson from the three projects, identified by the PPAR for the Third
Highway Project, is that lack of training and maintenance components under these
three projects was an important shortcoming in the Bank Group's assistance to
Madagascar for highway development.
48.       The Association's attention subsequently shifted from expansion and
improvement of the road network to road maintenance and institution building.
The ongoing Fourth Highway Project was designed to improve road maintenance
activities, institution building and staff training through a study to evaluate
road maintenance needs (equipment and personnel), procurement of road
maintenance equipment and weig'nbridges, and initiation of a training program, in
addition to the construction to gravel standards of a 370 km secondary road and
reconstruction to paved standard of a 67 km section of Pi 1. The Fifth Highway
Project, designed to strengthen road maintenance operations, includes
procurement of additional road maintenance equipment, improvement of workshops
and road regravelling operations, as well as construction of bridges and
drainage structures on a 165 km road and rehabilitation of sections of RN 4 and
RN 7.
49.       The execution of the Fourth and Fifth Highway projects has, however,
been hampered by poor organization and frequent changes in the management and
staff of MTP, cumbersome administrative procedures, lack of experienced
personnel, and shortage of funds. As a result, the projects have been delayed
by three years and one year, respectively. To solve these problems, the
Government has put in place a more efficient organization, stabilized MTP's
management, and shortened some administrative procedures. These measures have
significantly improved the implementation of the projects. Delays also resulted
from insufficient allocation of foreign exchange by the Government to
contractors, suppliers and consultants working under Association projects. To
eliminate this problem, the Government has agreed to ensure that all
authorizations required for the importation of goods under the project are given
within two weeks of its approval of related contracts and before notification of
said contracts (Section 3.03 (c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       The First Railway Project financed a modest increase in capacity and
improvements in management and operations. It also included the setting up of a
planning unit in the MTRT. The project had to be reduced in scope due to cost
overruns and was completed three years behind schedule; the recalculated rate of
return was less than 10 percent. The ongoing Second Railway Project provides
replacement of outdated equipment, track renewal, and improvement of
telecommunications and workshops. The credit was suspended in June 1982 for
non-compliance with covenants concerning tariff adjustments but the suspension
was lifted in December 1982. The remaining credit funds are being used for
technical assistance to improve financial management and training for a new
financial directorate and feasibility studies be carried out on two lines whose
economic viability is in question. The port project provided for extension of
the port of Toamasina, creation of a port authority and training. The physical
components were satisfactorily carried out, but the revised rate of return was
only 7 percent due to the decline in traffic since 1972. Institution building
eventually contributed to more efficient management.



- 17 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The project was appraised in November/December 1982.  A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Democratic Republic of Madagascar - Sixth Highway
Project" (No. 4399 a-MAG) dated June 2, 1983 is being distributed separately. A
supplementary project data sheet is attached at Annex III. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from May 19 to 27, 1983. The Government delegation was
led by Lieutenant Colonel Victor Ramahatra, Minister of Public Works.
Project Background
52.       At appraisal a program for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
road network and for the rehabilitation of the road transport industry was
designed to meet urgent transport needs of the county. The cost of the program
was estimated at US$100 million. Given the resource constraints facing the
Government, it was agreed to define a priority project that could be financed
with resources already known to be available. It is believed that additional
financing will be available in the near future. The project presented below is
self-contained; it is designed so that as additional financing becomes available
the elements can be easily expanded.
Project Objectives
53.       The proposed project will continue and expand efforts to improve the
condition of the road network started under the Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects. Its principal objectives are to (i) permit efficient and reliable
transportation on the country's high priority roads by improving their condition
and arresting further deterioration, thus reducing a major bottleneck to
economic development; (ii) continue the strengthening of the road
administration's capacity to maintain the road network and repair the
Government's equipment pool; (iii) improve transport coordination and planning;
and (iv) begin rehabilitation of the country's commercial vehicle fleet.
Project Description
54.      The proposed project would include:
(a) a three-year rehabilitation and maintenance program
(1984-86) consisting of spot improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance of about 2,470 km of
rural and feeder roads (including about 300 km in
the area of the Highlands Rice Project), patching
and resealing of about 2,500 km of paved roads,
routine maintenance of the entire economic network
of 10,000 km, and the rehabilitation of about 280 km
of Route Nationale 4 and Route Nationale 7;



- 18 -
(b) improvement of the National Soils Laboratory (LNTPB);
(c) training of personnel of the Ministries of Public
Works and of Transport, Supplies and Tourism;
(d) assisLance in the rehabilitation of the road
transport industry through the financing of spare
parts; and
(e) consulting services for supervision and management
of works, preinvestment and management studies, and
technical assistance for the National Soils
Laboratory, for training and for improvement of
transport coordination.
55.       Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program:  The three-year road
maintenance program (1984-86) would concentrate on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the 10,000 km "economic road network" (para. 32). To reach a
double objective of increasing MTP's capacity to effectively carry out road
maintenance operations and making the network passable year round in the near
term, the maintenance operations will be carried out simultaneously by force
account and contractors; the rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7 will be carried out
exclusively by contractors.
56.       Maintenance Operations:  About 2,470 km of rural and feeder roads have
been preselected for maintenance. These roads are located mainly in areas of
agricultural and industrial development and will include about 300 km of roads
located within the zone of the Highlands Rice Project which was appraised by IDA
for financing by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
The list of roads to be maintained by contractor and by force account during the
first year of project implementation were agreed upon at negotiations; in
subsequent years the Government and the Association will agree on a list of
roads six months before the start of works (Section 3.07, draft Development
Credit Agreement). Specific works to be carried out on these roads include (i)
spot improvements, (ii) regrading and regravelling, and (iii) improvement of
drainage structures.
57.       In addition to maintenance works on rural and feeder roads, DPCH will
carry out patching and resealing operations on 2,500 km of paved roads, and
labor-intensive routine maintenance operations on the remainder of the economic
network. These works will be carried out by seven multi-purpose brigades, one
of which would be based in each of the six regions and the special division of
Tolagnaro (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement), and
42 labor-intensive teams corresponding to the subdivisions of the road
maintenance organization. Most of the equipment and tools for the brigades and
teams and five workshops have been or are being provided under the Fourth and
Fifth Highway Projects. The proposed project will provide two more workshops
and their equipment, the list of which was discussed and agreed during
negotiations.



- 19 -
58.       Rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7:  RN 4 and RN 7 constitute the major
road axis (1,100 km) in the country. Under the Fifth Highway Project, about
200 km of this road are being rehabilitated. The proposed project would
continue these efforts by providing for rehabilitation of an additional 280 km.
This road axis, built to paved standards in the 1950s as a low volume road
(50 vpd to 100 vpd) and now carrying from 200 vpd to 1,000 vpd, has deteriorated
to the extent that reconstruction of the pavement is necessary. The proposed
improvements would consist of (i) improvement of drainage structures and
shoulders, (ii) widening of some sections, (iii) rebuilding of subgrades, and
(iv) construction of a new base course.
*     59.        improvement of the National Soils Laboratory:  LNTPB, the national
soils laboratory, is carrying out research on the utilization of construction
materials. It is also conducting soils investigations for the design and
construction supervision of civil engineering structures including roads,
bridges and buildings. The Government has called upon the laboratory to join
DPCH in planning and executing road maintenance programs. During the past two
years LNTPB has received support from UNDP and FAC in the form of equipment and
technical assistance. The project will continue and expand this support by
providing supplementary equipment and qualified personnel. The list of
equipment has been discussed and agreed during negotiations.
60.       Training of MTP and MTRT Personnel:  The three-year (1984-1986)
training program would provide for retraining of about 730 MTP employees already
in place, and the recruitment and training of about 185 new employees
(engineers, technicians, mechanics, operators, drivers and administrative
personnel). The project will also provide training for about 10 transport
professionals and technicians of MTRT. The program will be run by the training
center in Antananarivo, CATP, headed by a competent Malagasy professional;
instruction will consist of classroom and field training with greater emphasis
on the latter. Malagasy instructors will receive on-the-job training at CATP;
they and successful trainees needing additional instruction will be granted
fellowships for short courses abroad or organized in the country. The Fourth
Highway Project helped finance the reconstruction of CATP, training equipment
and technical assistance. The proposed project will provide for additional
equipment and expenses to implement the training program.
61.       Rehiabiiitation ot the Road Transport Industry:  In order to help
rehabilitate the private transport industry, the proposed project will include a
pilot scheme to provide US$10 million in foreign exchange to meet the emergency
needs for spare parts (see para. 42). This component of the credit would be
channelled through the Bankin' Ny Indostria (BNI), Madagascar's industrial bank,
or through any other bank acceptable to the Association as a "managed fund"
under a subsidiary agreement between the Government and BNI or the bank under
consideration. BNI or the bank would implement the pilot scheme following
procedures and criteria acceptable to the Association (Section 3.01 (b) and
Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement). The signing of a subsidiary
agreement, acceptable to the Association, would be a condition of disbursement
of credit funds under this component of the proposed project (Schedule 1, draft
Development Credit Agreement). BNI was considered because it has a competent
staff and is already familiar with the Association's procedures through an
ongoing DFC operation (Credit 977-MAG).



- 20 -
62.       BNI would allocate foreign exchange to distributors of utility
vehicles (trucks, buses and vans) on the basis of their share of the market as
determined by their turnover during the previous five years and the composition
of the utility vehicle fleet they service. The initial allocation of the credit
among the distributors will be reviewed after one year in relatijn to the rate
of disbursements. BNI will retain an administrative fee of 3.5 percent and
deposit the balance in a special account which will be used for the financing of
local costs of the project. BNI will be responsible for reviewing and approving
the distributors' requests; ensuring that adequate procurement procedures have
been followed; maintaining, with the participation of the distributors, a
monthly list recording sales under the project; and monitoring the sales by the
distributors and the use of spare parts by the truckers through regular spot
checks (Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement).
63.       Technical Assistance:  In view of MTP's still limited capabilities,
consultants would be engaged to supervise rehabilitation works on RN 4 and RN 7
and will lead DI teams in the supervision of spot improvement and maintenance
works on rural and feeder roads carried out by contractors. In addition,
construction experts will be provided to manage the seven multi-purpose
brigades; the experts will be engaged under a two-year management contract
between MTP and qualified contractors. The project would also include two
preinvestment studies: one for a future paved road maintenance and
strengthening program and the other for the development of the feeder road
network. The terms of reference for the studies were discussed and agreed upon
at negotiations.
64.       MTP is seriously handicapped by the shortage of qualified, experienced
personnel especially at the management level. While training will be carried
out under the proposed project, experts will also be provided to assist in
efficient management and execution of the current and planned operations; they
include:  (i) two experts to serve as line managers for three years to assist
MTP with technical operations and road maintenance operations; (ii) seven
experts for two and a half years each and one for four years to assist in
running the training program; and (iii) three experts (10 man-years) to assist
in the improvement of LNTPB operations. A study will also be carried out to
assess and make recommendations for further improvement of MTP's organization to
carry out efficient road operations and set up an organization to assist rural
communities in the improvement and maintenance of rural and feeder roads. The
terms of reference of the technical assistance and the study were discussed and
agreed at negotiations.
65.       Transport Planning and Coordination:  Under the project, a high-level
transport planning unit will be established within MTRT by December 31, 1983 to
plan and coordinate investment with MTRT and other agencies in the sector
(Section 3.08 (a), draft Development Credit Agreement). The unit will carry out
planning studies which are financed by FAC and additional modal studies to
complete a national transport plan. IDA and FAC will strengthen the unit with
the provision of two transport experts for two years, one of which would be
seconded by IDA, and the training of the unit's staff through courses at CATP
and, when necessary, through fellowships for specialized studies abroad. The



- 21 -
Government will provide the Association with qualifications of candidates for
fellowships and the type and cost of training, institutions selected and
probable assignments of the trainees upon their return (Section 3.06, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The terms of reference for the technical
assistance and studies were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.
Project Cost
66.       The total project cost, net of taxes, is estimated at US$81.7 million
equivalent, with local costs of about US$22.1 million equivalent (27 percent)
and foreign costs of about US$59.6 million (73 percent). Taxes are estimated at
US$11.6 million. Base costs are at May 1983 prices; physical contingencies of
about 10 percent, and price contingencies of about 20 percent have been added to
all components except the road transport industry pilot scheme and labor in the
maintenance program by force account. Price contingencies are based on recent
estimates of inflation rates as follows:  8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent in
1984, 7.0 percent in 1985 and 6 percent thereafter. The same percentages for
local and foreign costs were used under the assumption that the differential
inflation of Madagascar will be compensated by exchange rate adjustments.
Financing Plan
67.       The project would be financed on a parallel basis by the Government of
Madagascar (US$16.1 million), the Association (US$45.0 million), AfDF (US$19.2
million) and IFAD (US$1.4 million). AfDF and the Government will finance the
rehabilitation and supervision of construction on about 180 km of RN 7; IFAD
will finance part of the foreign cost of consulting services and technical
assistance for the rehabilitation and maintenance of rural and feeder roads; the
Association and the Government will finance the remaining costs of the project.
In addition, the Government will finance any taxes it includes in any contract
under the project. Additional funds are needed to contribute to the financing
of the balance of the US$100 million program, which includes additional
rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7. Such financing is expected to be available
from the European Development Fund (E.D.F.) and the Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (KfW, Federal Republic of Germany) for rehabilitation. Other
contributions for road rehabilitation may come from the UK for bridges and
bridge repairs and from FAC for technical assistance and studies.
Project Implementation and Procurement
68.       The project will be implemented by the MTP through its DGE except for
the improvement of transport planning and coordination which will be implemented
by MTRT, and assistance to the road transport industry, which will be
implemented by BNI or another bank acceptable to the Association. Road
rehabilitation and maintenance operations and technical assistance services will
start in January 1984 and take about 36 months to complete. Procurement of
spare parts for truckers will be spread over about two years starting near the



- 22 -
end of 1983. Pre-investment studies and the study for the improvement of MTP's
organization and management will start in January 1984 and take about two years
and eight months, respectively, to complete. The project is expected to be
completed by December 1987.
69.       CiviL works for road rehabilitation and maintenance to be carried out
by contractors will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines after suitable prequalification.
Small civil works amounting to an aggregate cost of no more than US$1.0 million
may be carried out through amendment to contracts being executed under the Fifth
Highway Project. The two workshops to be constructed (US$2.5 million) are at
opposite ends of the country and unlikely to attract foreign contractors and
their construction will be carried out by contractors on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Association.
Qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential
margin of 7.5 percent over the bid price of competing foreign contractors.
Equipment, spare parts, tools, materials and supplies for rehabilitation and
maintenance will be provided on the basis of ICB following Bank Group
guidelines. However, individual items or groups of items costing under
US$50,000 and totalling no more than US$500,000 may be procured on the basis of
quotations obtained locally. Consulting firms and individual experts will be
selected following the Bank Group's guidelines.
70.       The US$10 million line of credit for the rehabilitation of the road
transport industry will finance the foreign exchange cost of spare parts to be
purchased by distributors of utility vehicles on the basis of approved letters
of credit issued by BNI or other approved bank. The spare parts would be
grouped in lots of US$250,000 and purchased from foreign suppliers in accordance
with established commercial practices in Madagascar. Direct purchase will be
required for proprietary spare parts; all other items (tires and routine
maintenance items) would be procured on the basis of limited international
tendering, requiring price quotations from not less than three suppliers.
Disbursements
71.       The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 41.7 million (US$45 million equivalent)
would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures for civil works
contracts if payable exclusively or partially in currencies other than FMG and
70 percent of total expenditures for civil works contracts payable exclusively
in FMG; 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultant services, technical
assistance and fellowships; 100 percent of the foreign cost of directly imported
equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies, or 70 percent of the cost if
purchased locally; and 100 percent of the foreign cost of directly imported
spare parts for the private road transport industry. Disbursements are expected
to begin in the third quarter of FY1984; the Completion Date is December 31,
1987 and the Closing Date June 30, 1988.



- 23 -
Project Accounts, Audit and Reporting
72.       Separate accounts for each project component would be maintained by
MTP and would be made available for inspection by the Association during project
supervision (Section 4.01 (a) and (b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project accounts would be audited annually by the Auditing Department in the
Ministry of Finance, which is acceptable to the Association. If the Auditing
Department is unable to perform this task, it would be carried out by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.  Audited reports would be
submitted to the Association for review within six months following the end of
each fiscal year (Section 4.01 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). BNI or
the bank considered in para. 61 for the private transport pilot scheme will also
submit annual audited reports prepared by qualified auditors (Schedule 4, para.
3 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). Within six months of the Closing
Date, the Government would prepare and submit to the Association a project
completion report (Section 3.04 (d), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Beneficiaries
73.       Since the economic network includes all classifications of roads, from
trunk to feeder roads, throughout the country, the benefits from improved
maintenance would accrue to the whole range of users and communities. The
rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7 would have a direct impact on an area of high
economic activity where about one third of the population lives. RN 4 links
Antananarivo, the capital, with the port of Mahajanga, the second most important
port in the country, and therefore is an alternate supply route to the capital.
RN 7 connects the capital to the industrial city of Antsirabe, continuing south
to Fianarantsoa, a regional center and hub of an important agricultural region.
The provision of foreign exchange for spare parts for private truckers would
benefit producers, consumers and the entire economy, as well as the truckers
themselves, since the shortage of spare parts has severely reduced transport
capacity.
74.       The main benefit of the project would be a reduction in vehicle
operating costs, which would accrue to owners and operators of commercial
vehicles, both public and private. It is expected that producers and customers
alike would benefit from the resulting reduced transport costs since freight
tariffs, while in principle regulated by the Government, are in practice set by
competition. Improved road maintenance will also allow better access to
productive areas, provide cheaper and more reliable transport, arrest the
deterioration of roads and improve ITP's capacity to maintain roads.  Important
benefits not quantified in the economic evaluation include reduced freight
damage, accidents and travel time, and better access to social and medical
services.  The provision of year-round access to areas where transport was
previously restricted will encourage increases in agricultural production since
transport will no longer be a bottleneck on the movement of inputs and outputs.



- 24 -
Economic Analysis
75.       Except for technical assistance and training, the other components of
the project have been individually analyzed to assess their benefits. Separate
economic analyses were done for paved and earth (rural and feee:r) roads.  For
paved roads the overall ERR is 179 percent, with ERRs ranging trom 27 percent to
356 percent on the individual sections. Proposed works on rural and feeder
roads consist of spot improvements, regravelling and improvement of drainage
structures. Of the 2,900 km included in the proposed project, about 900 km have
been selected for the first year's program. The economic analysis yields an ERR
of 16 percent for these roads. For the remaining 2,000 km of roads in this
component, only those demonstrating an ERR of greater than 12 percent would be
considered for the second and third year programs. The sections of RN 4 and
RN 7 to be rehabilitated were analyzed according to their level of deterioration
and traffic levels; required improvements range from pavement strengthening to
complete reconstruction. The various sections of RN 4 and RN 7 have ERRs
ranging from 13 percent to 157 percent, with the weighted average being
49 percent. The spare parts for the private road transporters would allow
better utilization of the existing utility vehicle fleet. The overall economic
rate of return for the project is 42 percent for all the quantitatively analyzed
components (about 90 percent) of total project costs.
Risks
76.       The main risk associated with the project is that the Gove2nment would
not provide adequate local funds on time for the maintenance component. To
overcome this risk the Government has agreed to establish a road fund and
allocate fixed amounts for road maintenance during project implementation. The
other major risk concerns MTP's capability to manage and execute force account
works and the possibility of poor quality work which would reduce the economic
life of the roads and, consequently, the benefits. The project includes
contractors to carry out part of the civil works and technical assistance to
reduce this risk as much as possible.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Republic
of Madagascar and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III to this
Report.  A condition of Credit effectiveness would be an increase of tariffs for
road transport by 40 percent (para. 46).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 25 -
PART VI - RECOMHENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
*    Attachments
June 2, 1983
,



- 26 -
Pae   of  5
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            58? .0O                                  MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     370.0                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAP'TA (US1)                    150.0       220.0     350.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         38.5        68.7      89.1                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUIATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    5474.0       6785.0   8714.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   10.6         14.8      17.7                  17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         16.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           51.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K1.                           9.3        11.6      14.4                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        14.9        18.7      22.9                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            41.6        42.8      43.7                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                            55.2        53.9      53.0                  52.3                    51.1
65 YES. AND ABOVE                      3.2         3.3       3.3                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.8         2.1       2.5/c                 2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                 4.9         5.4       4.3                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.7        45.2      46.7                  47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        26.6        21.9      17.9                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0         3.0       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             89.0       102.0      94.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     100.5       105.8     110.8/d                90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             57.4        58.6       58.6/d               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.3        16.7      15.3/i                18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        21.1        15.7      11.1                  26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.2        42.2      47.1                  45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             108.9        89.2      71.3                 129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        11.0      25.0/e                23.9
URBAN                                  ..        67.0      76.0/1e               54.9
RURAL                                  ..         1.0      14.0/e                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        ..                  25.8 
URBAN                                  ..        88.0        ..                  63.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..       9.0/e                20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             8900.8     10172.4   10242.3/d             32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3105.1/f    3353.9   2298.9/i               3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               423.9       354.4    402.3/d               1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                               150.51f     214.8    239.4/i                249.5                  430.8
RURAL                               760.2/f     475.3     517.9/d              1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..         5.8       4.7/e
URBAN                                  ..         5.3       5.0..
RURAL                                             5.9       4.7/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..        ..



- 27 -
Page 2  of  5
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DA"A SHEET
MADAGASCAR                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEI ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 52.0        88.0      100.0                 63.2                    83.3
MALE                 58.0        95.0         ..                 72.7                   96.1
FEMLALE              45.0        81.0        ..                  50.3                   80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 4.0         11.0      12.0/e               10.2                    15.3
MALE                  5.0        13.0       14.0/e               13.2                   19.4
FEHALE                3.0         9.0      lo.O/                  6.6                   11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  9.1           8.7        ..                  7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           69.9        65.0       54.8                 47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                         24.2        19.8         ..                 26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..       39.0       50.0/d               34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0         6.8        7.1/d                3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        15.0        79.7      135.6                 34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.5        1.5/d                1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  7.7          7.8       9.0/j                2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5/f       0.7        0.4/1                1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3046.0       3619.9   4423.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  46.9        46.1      44.6                  34.1                   36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             93.0        90.0       90.0                 78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PEaCENT)                 2.0         3.0       3.0                   9.2                   17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               55.6        53.4       50.8                 41.4                    37.0
MALE                                60.7         58.8      56.4                 53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                              50.9        48.2       45.2                 29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9        0.9                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.0/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.1/h         .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.27i        .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0/b
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAFITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      150.0/d              134.3                  507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       86.0/d               82.9                  200.6
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      135.O/d               96.4                  523.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       86.0/-               60.4                  203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.O/d                39.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       50.0/                69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Recent population growth estimate is 2.8% for 1975-79; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962; /1  1974; /h Population.
may, 1982



-28 -                                                                                "..  of 5
ONtaC-    Although the data ens dran  free            6 e .o.eenrally judged tba mae auhrttteadrIbe  it should alo I. notedhC cha  by nap out be Intr-
botiomelly  -up-rbl.e benausa of the leak of steodaordtgd degintiune u-d concpt. u..S  by difftroetutuu-i.. in  otat                      the dn.-   Th. aute  r.oe
tbglees, vogf4l to detonne 004or. g1 vwtffuig  joduogi  ttgf4, aw0 chgfetrtzeg ceft.n eajor differeores bst..e.c. ue........
rho r-ferec  Smup. .c. (ll  th. sawe o.uoty  rgaop of the subject Oouufry .od (2) . count ry gr...p trOth euteuhat high-r -ver.g. i...-cu                thaccb  ....try group
of the sublect country (eufgpt loo   '5136' 101Wa   01l ZXporter" group oherc  Aiddle 1-05  Ifoth Ofoho- ad 001dbl  fact" Ia  h..-e becaus  of etrooge
..ao-o-cutu1 alfLiciuteal.  Ic ch. -ef-eac  group dots the a-eags.  are poitl                     h clgtd erIth-tlc oas.  for ...h lodi-c-r and shon  only  h..
majority of the  -ouurise to a group he. dat. for that ihAi.ator.  Sit-  the c.-raoe of  -outri.. aing the indi-ttors dep..d. on che   -ollobillly of deco
acdIs  u  unfom  catonea  be ousrcleed to renIg   vrages of oce iadloalor to anot her.  Chataerge  are only usefu.1l In . cup.rng the  -ila  of
usldnur -a acanane  th. ....try sad ref.r....Se cupe.
ARE  Ichousod eq.k.)                                                                              Puua        Ptor H-iustta  Bra - tcol,i urhac. and rurl -POylatuo  tutl.
oral.  - Tct01 ourfgoe ores .oeprielg lead aca. od icleedoocore; 1979 dota.                       urboo, acd rura1  divIdd by cheir r-Poot incree  of h.upite1 teds
* dri-ulurl..I - fEticacs of  arclua   rgo used cesporooly or peresoently                          avIa L.1 public  ond private  ... eo1 aed epeoiallced h.pitta1 .ndr-
for crops,pcr,         eurht ... tbicotan garden  or nu lie 7011l0; 1979 dato.                 hoblliteloin.  -ctcrs.  Hospitals ore        vllteh-t. pereccly seeffed
hy at lecet ace phyccoish.   .tebl let_ Ar  pro-ldlog prlooip.lly ...u
-07 PER0 CAPITA, (U001 - GNIP per uaplt. eetCI..a at carrent market prlogo-i-                       diL care or  not luoluded.  furoL tca  .aLa. hocevr. Itotud. heolth
culoted by st   oor tot aoda.,Acid Book Atlas (1978-80  ooial; 19h0.                              .od andloel .e..ter  out p.reeOeoay erff.d by a physicIan  (but by5
17,. ad lOf0t dc.                                                                                 edloal e... en  fre   cdelfe,  tct.(  hiob off.r It-po".tlece o-
dotlue and pro-id.c   lialtd range of aed-Iun  fctiLtto,n.  for  -tatt-
lNtRlY CONSUupTION PfR CAPITA - doaalo-I       uptoof ooeseernta1etergy I(00                        dual  uroe  rtaovoyiel  icolud. WHfe prlfoip./gener-i hospitfols
and litboito, P-,hOL-, naturol gou  nd. hydon-, nooarad %.ut1n,-aI 01c-ud001  hopto    lo-al or  o-Al.. oayt.L. and  edtc-I 004 nac-ety
Orlolcy)' ItAlgaeof coaI equl-O... per u-plte; 1909, 1907. 004  S197                              -oenrre.   pcalod hoapicle arei Itldod uoiy under   tl
i       ta                                                                                    Adtutloc. Pet dositul lcd -  utl  ch.crf adlto to ut dle-h-tj.
froe ho-pitole dIvIded hy  bcuh.     o  of hedo.
Total Porlatl, Mld-Year (th-ougods) - Ac of July 1; 1960, 1070. sod :00                    0110
data.                                                                                        '-ura, S'laofPnuod(tctpnhucol                          - tutl, utan.j and cural-
lrhae        Ii..ulu  (P.-oaat of notal) - Railo of  rhaa to total populatloul                   A  ouebl   _onelet   of aSgou  ofP        dodasoasoelirlo   qere
difj=rntdef,in itin   of urhS  oMe  mY affect tcoonT.blitny of data                            and their nola mole.  A   -ed-r or icdgcr en  or my non ho hocluded In
I ,ouuurel  90  1970. tad 1960 dora.                                                  the henbl   o  aalcrlparpocu
PouatePr.Ofroto                                                                          Aner.g nuero            ..ma.  .r roo  -cocI urban,..d rural -aseen.
y..eui-to  In rear 2000 - Current pepalatfac projentiaee ort ba-d ua 1980                      hgr of p.rtoe   per root In all urho, and rorul ooaoplnd coo-vetiuna
tct1 yopel.tiou by age  ed sea end thoir a-relity and fertllity rrc.dali                                 o.repenti-ely.  Donlilege euclad.   o-preceur-ttrese.d
Projeorioe peramtere for terolity rete otpieo   he  lvl                     u                uoh.-pied pert..
lag life eupctt...cy at birth i.c-reaeg olth coootre per cpita  Anm...es  to fectriclor ('ero-   of% dvelIe   -totl, urban, and rural -
level, and f'tal, life eepectaoy ..tahLtoibg oc 77.0 yeore.  Th. Pur-                        Coonlnldnellng  oaih rla crItyo lIvIng qorter .. e. p-r..ateg.
_nne   fo  f-LnIty rot  also hone throc le-1  ae...m.log d-cilce In                         of nocal. arnue. .nd rura  as-elings r-pa...i-ly.
f.rtlltyacorin   to tacms Ie  und..  roar foelly PlnIatpedotaos
tech  . ooury is then uselgod ov  of theto       n  onOotoeof aort-liy                  EDUCATIOt
ad  -etility teeade for projantlan purons.Idued Onr-limt ]Lstloa
S_ira otry p.p.ouiacoh- L .. .t.tLaco-y   rulto   thor   in 0 roeh elce                        Poeay  cto  -  otl nato  -d fenlr - Iroco tota, cult and fcnot
tlhe tlrh roce. ia aqoa  to the deat ratr-,. ad Oleo nhs .ge ec.r-rur   tr toleto   I                                 ea  th' prlnery lo-ved 00  -eroetgec of  -eap-cl-
ane   ootrt  ihO  inahieved otly after fUotliarroa   talne                                 pcinry schoolag   pouaio.           1otal  Ild-c  thiLdrero agd 6-il
the rnpl--emt leve  of -ilt net r-pradaoloo rote           b.    h   .   rnnoobc crlon         Y-.r hut adjustsd for dIff.ren  lnngch. of priteay edu-tlc; far
of com   raylacr   i  .Itef onaoly.  Th. otacl.tery p.pulatIo ..e. .. oe_ couOlyle  wth -oler- led-                             alo  -oalcccy ....erd lOt pe-e-
re itiad ca the haute. of the proicutd ohar-ct-ierc   000. -           rlto of                   non m...i-   pupils arr below or  ohonhoctul uhsoI age.
Intheh.e-r 2000. ead the rote of doctlve of f-tillltyruteor-Plso-Iodrahn  -tcarl. bale aod fooale - Coaouted as aboneisnoondaY
ant level.                                                                                    odcurlcrq          et  ...rhor-  yours ox arpr-ood priearlI. _r=rco.;
T-r  -natlury   r            iananl  rea ..ehd - The yaar when attnuonry populanita              prc-tdet genra.  vo' .catlons. or teacher tro lir            - IuroIn.. for popln
uian ciiib hr..chod.                                                                           usually of 12 to 17 y-or  of ago;        .  . ooreod= gcorana are g..terolly
700 aa. ka.. - Mtd-y-a  pop.at-oLb  per a.q-.c oluntr110 he.ctorca  of                      VO...tlona c-rl1-nt (peroret o1 arcoodory)- Vo-catI... Inelul
rocol oreo  l960, 1070 and1079dat.                                                           loolud. tctoohil, ind-atflal, or ocher proSr-f hdcah uparate tndrpend-
P.ar cc   ..arooarl ad- Coepated oe abne for agrlultur.l laud                                  .rtly or o  dsofc of eaccdoryletr ttn
Porpato " deA Stru-ture                 Chrcel bildrve  10-14 year.... etuc-g  (13-              Prtmy"ndE,        aay  eee  lie  hy..b;11-.  oudr. of tr..her  10 tht
WlYear), and  retired (ho prare ad ove r) os peroantagee of eld-psar pepa-                      -or-np.nditglva.
lafloLb; 1000, 1070. a-d 1090 deta.                                                           AdulYt lltrao   rat toerent)-titor-t  ad.cl  (ada. to read and anise)
foualo  et_  fate   p.....n) -ntal - A.-oI g'.-h rates of ctota  IOd-                      uaeesgeof cunaladult poyoloclr. aged lb yoare andovr
Year"       " youato    fr M_90-. 1907     d 0  1970080.
Popolacion Iro-th fate(os-eat) -urbtac- ib.-ldret  racee of urban papa-                      C0lONSMTION
clatlo    fr100-O  1907, ad 19710-dO                                                          Pasce-cc  C.re. lIer  hoto -adP.....ao)    faa Sge   ar. coupri.e accor
Crde Sloch  oe(e   huod  - Annul lion birtch  pef tho....od of ald-yacr                          oureoawlcg l... rhac aght pereoce; on1 ud-  heo--o.tere  and
popolatlot; lOAd, 1970..ad 1900 data,                                                    slItary ohilolca.
Coud  loah Oae (rr thusad) - Ano.e1   .,ah. per cho..eu.d  of cfd-yegr                 Raio   cI er  (oar thoaodoolrol-A   yeo    -alnre fo  rdio
.Popolcion; l9Af, 1970. and 1900  data,                                                        broad c.at to r3gec_rl paLo parchauad of Pcplao; oas   a
bo_   Wornd.."tIon  a. - A-treg. no.0.0 of duughtere a  eo    Ill hear 10                         lloaoed rnoelve   io  oatoacad 10 yearn  ,hen rgtato  f radio
her noe    erdstv  perod if abe  Pner rne    .....n .c-po fifr-                                ece    ie1   ffec; dato for  --w  feore aay cot he oeabL...eu
dlit  raaeuealy fiv-erIaeagsealg1  1960, 1970. oca 1990.                                       soot  -orrtee abolIshed litening.
femily PIan.I.% - A-MOvr.  nna  (hana) - oract-a1                 a  of acposT'V eune (-, tbaanad  -.oation)   TO r.cain... far brnudoa..t to
of bi,th-coetrn1 d-roo. ade  acpiso  nor-nn  f-ndly plaaticg program.                          gen..ral publla per chOueaed populotico; atclod..aaltcecsd TV rc.. Lvee
PahvPlenin  1- Usrs cvooa of ..rr  aMn  - Pvntg   f enoete                                    La coonrte  ans d Ln yearn chnt oratrttoc of TV sets tee L. offact.
soeor  hild-herig age (15-44 years)wh  ow  hirc . -b-ooceca   d-n.-  to                   Newepaper CruL-a-loo ler thou...nd pop.l.tfawf   Shoe  cbs  -nerge .fre
all nerriad  -om   In  -a  age Sr.p.                                                           cuat of 'daly &e.-r.l Interect tompepr. deflcda     prat
tablitatti- d-.entd prieefity taacrdln  aeealoe                 nb c   aneidared
FP000 An NhtITI0O                                                                                  tah  "daIly" if it appw.r..  .aa   ortes   et
Icda. of load Orodacw   par Canine (1969-7i-100) - laden of Per caPita anua                    Cln., ann.a  Attnndaoc  ocr Ceolta oo Year - hosedccth. oofoa  of
praolcof all fond  -odindtia.  prod-ti..eode   e.-d tad fagd sod                         tickt.scold daeitg tba year, .. lnuiog adeeeto.e to drIe-. ia  l-e
le occledryea  btac.  Cosssditiee cover pelety geode (e.g. auger-cam                           end  abile  -it..
brea   of4 cager)  hcblo  ar dible and .cntai  ootrltatn  (e.g.          ..f enoud
tc- ar  eooludwdl.  1garege- prod-ali.  of ...bahuanry7ts b             tae  On           1B00 P0001
..tt-I averae prndoonr price enlght; 1961-65, 1970  . d 1000 data.                            occI Labor Poroa (tboneede)- f-oeoal   oiv  peca-a  lacldio
Por ceotta saeoofclre(eonaf -1aIeene   COeptee f roere  faces an   celynd. hoIaido   onye   udae   tc.. 
anrg  equloalet ofoe   f n   ople  avilll  In  -otry per -spita                              co lrog pupulsaon of otLages.  Dfluitlo.. In vcrtue...              tl    r
Par day.Aehbn eapieoWl.dmtoprodarcti, leport  late                                             oot oeaae;1960, 1970 and 1900  data.
enports. an  oheogee In snook.  net sppllee anolde oafsel fead. sede.                         'eel  (crret  - reol  labor forcea   acnssfacllbrfre
qaitiee used 10 fowd Pracecea. and be-n  to di-rrlbtta-   Raqiracetatre.non)-   Laber fortet   amng   oety  buatla  and.
me t  ner  ctndby Pa  base  oe phyelaI.iwglu   nee. far .wrMl stil-                            flehlcg oe p.rcautage  fof total labor furo; 1060, 1070 and 1980 data.
olty adhatlth  -nederine enniwoc tnn1 t-pcrore.             bac.  egce                         Induecr   )owecl- La1bor force In elde.   ontCciat   ecfctrn
-ad  -e  diotrlhatl.otf popn.i-to. sod al1ming 10 peree   fur neeaadelfricity.atrndgeepoeseoftallbroc;
hoeeod lere; 1961-60.  190  In  1977 dto.                                                    190. 190en   00  ae
Poe ceot. _urol of cr.c.L. (gpat  par day) - ProteIn ooetaet of peo oapina                     Pertcloalce.  ate '(p-rsct) - total,  so., and f4otal  - Peotlipetfn O
.mt aaPpiy of fond Par day.  ret apply of fond is dafld cc abo.-   he-                        aelof rtn  ace r.nd an c-tel *el.  and femle labor f.rorea
qursot   o  aloOnre Iecbthod by U105. p-wide foeol..                                           p-ertengct   of total.  eAl an .d femle pope-I..a of alI sg..r.0-atlvely
alo1 ceof 6a Srcm  of tweet protinj  pr dey and 20 gra   ofanmc  ad                           1960. 1070,..ad l9go late.  These are  ao.        nld      etcpto   ratee
puItprocei.  of  hbfch 10 gram  ofcId be aefmc  protein.  Tes   cc-                           refaeleg-seeroaeo   h  popltio. and tang tin  tred       A
orde are love  then cha. of 70 grat  of t-ce  proteLn sad23 grem of                            fwe t.m.s  r  fr rs              f ..t.na   arre..
an-Ia  protein eeenavrag  for ch. -rid, Propoeed by 7A1 Ic cbe Third                         fuoel   e-ednor. Sutlo  -         iftl  of pepelanio   ndar 15 and 60 and over
fr1dfod Scuy: 1961-6l, 1070 and  1977 data,                                                   to the  ota  laheR fors..
Per C.nt   rtt it                . 0ro aical ad rules- Pratelo eupply of food de-
olved froe aolnsle sod         tole   n  r  a           Ia; '01-O  170 and 1077 data.  iNCOOt DISTRIBUTIONf
ChIjdlac1-)Ocbft(r thousand) - Onnul deathe per ebch w   to-rec0dfPIst   on   bc   coe Iod find)  R- heetd byorichect
age goup 14 yeas, to. tlf. n Ic thia ccc Sranp; 0r test deelping oau                     5proc-. riche   20I~    .., rpoores  20  Zaot  and poorno  40 pecoec
tolan data deriv-d tee  lif. t ho;16,17   n   00dt.of houtetoblds.
Lifo fecuoy an Birth  yara)  A-Oerge nubtr of years of life rnectotc                           The fo1loelhg rotles te ore  rY appro...n  an-     ocra   f po-rary Lecl.,
tt  bith.t; 196, ISMaod10  ut.ce   nuldh  f.tcprt  ::t,                                                                            ondrbncuin
lcfaot fo. .c.lity fate (Pr  houed) - -.-Ia  d-etb  of It fat  under ..n .ear                  lEcteeted`A.nbaolutc   ooty 10__ foon  (IOorcaia      rhaO and rural-
01t9  yor nch ..u.d tine b-hura  1960, 1970  .Ad 1000 dat.                                  Oaoloc       - ocot  Lncom  L_.et In thtlao ivt   hnte   hi   a n,Ialeu
A:ss to:    f   ee   ceow   frrlal              -tcl  cbhn,00  rac-   -  .n-                     ourtlau         dequate diac pl.an.. esrtla1 nun-fond rqiect   aat
herofpo I'll   tel.  ohs."FC1111  P, roa) cith r-asohalnucn .to d                           ufforuble.
aanwraa.Pply (Lacludes treatednrfao- Xtnr  oro-nt.oodee   b-lucoaiae                         lotlauced Reletlvo Porcy a-o  Lroei (US0 oar cot)-rtan And rural1
-nn   ah an that Ico  prototted noonbolo. opelg. tad aenItany odin) uc                      ata  roaILepvrytao (nI. In ...tit  of net   Per -apit.
pe:rtcetagoc of che ir r..apetnto  populati-ne    -aohea -ybl                                  yaruo.-oal lacom  of cTrhe   ctr = Y   Iroco  _Lae  is derld Cro  tho rutel
fouoain oruta-dp-oet . ucad con acr  than 200 ashre ra  a  otaay he.- ori eh odjuatnt  for higct  ..oat of livbo  in, unb. .tn...
c..sidwradc  hetg altbln  racoonbl. soo of nhec h..-o.  Ic rural --ru                       E.i-cacd Pau    .tI..Olo Obsol.fn         .. OrtY "oom  `eve  (pro.... -    br
reasonable so-o  -ould ltply that cbs h.ouaenfe or ooebe- of the h-cehold                      and rurnl1  Percet of population  (uh   ad rura) nhoar"uole
do not have no  pod a d1uproporctnateyart of the day  10  octhico the.oo'
ilucbev_of p.ople Iora. urban, andrurAl)  --eredby anrat  dIpoel I
Perorota.e  of choir rneyputiv  pop atihoto.  Z-oren  diapeacl an   olude
uheo   letiecd dinpee..  oAt~h or vLtnoa  creatmeC. ad homa  ancrta
ood  eaencrby oaer-horn eyetee  or Ih. us. of pit priotos aed  iln-
?Povultiuc rer  Pvlio-Popuai.ro. dioldad by 01.0r of procra, tg ohy.t-                                                               co-vta  and SocIal Data Divialco
ca... qboltfIad fran e eedlol eoow1 at  _ai_rs icy land.                                                                      E-bond.o dAly.in and Projeoti.n. Dop--rt
PPoruaw.u ..r dUrnug Peract - :Popalet-an divIde  by onsheor of practi.ing                                                                        Soy 1011
usle and resale fradanrsooraae. Iaeltntvu .. prootcue  osv-  and
ourteanilares



- 29 -
AMEX I
Pag 4 of 5
MAaIGASCAR - ECCNC}IIC INDICATCRS
(ROSS NATICOAL PRCUCI IN 1981
Amnual Rage of Growth 1/
US$ min.    %           1975-79         1979-81
-G2P at Market Prices        2,817.1   100.0           1.5           -4.5
Grcss Dhmestic Investnent      545.0    19.3           8.4          -15.0
GreBs Doestic Savirg           174.1     6.2          -3.0           -5.0
Current Account Balance       -414.7   -14.7            -              -
Exports of Goods, NES          383.5    13.6          -3.0           -4.7
Imports of Goods, NES          725.7    25.8           5.5          -14.0
CrpUi IABCUR FCRCE AND
PCUJUCIVITY IN 1980
Value added 2/      Labour Force 3/     VA Per Abrker
US$ En.          %      '_          %     US$ MLn       %
Agriculture        1,178.9        36.1    4095       88.4       287.9    40.8
Industry            588.3         18.0     127        2.7    4,632.3   657.0
Services           1,331.3        40.8     357        7.7    3,729.1   528.9
lhallocated 4/      166.1          5.1      51        1.2    3,256.9   461.9
Total      -       3,264.6       100.0    4630      100.0      705.1   100.0
COIMRRN FNANCE
Central Gowernnent
FMG Blin.                of GDP
1981     1982         1981      1982
Currert Receipts         104.3   121.9          13.3      11.9
Current Expenditures     112.2   130.9          14.3      12.7
0urrert Deficit           -7.9    -9.0          -1.0     -0.9
Capital Expenditures      69.1    39.4           8.8       3.9
Foreign finarrirg (net)    55.6    50.6          7.1       5.0
M2WY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1977     1978     1979      1980      1981
(Bil lion of FMG at TITEnd of tc e Period)
Money and Quasi Money               120.3    140.7    172.9      205.8   242.2
Bank Credit to public sector         28.2     48.5      99.1     175.8   233.7
Bank Credit to state erterprises
and private sector                 96.1    101.1    120.9       150.3   163.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Mbney and Quasi Money as % of GDP    25.7     28.9      29.1.     29.8    30.9
GIP Price Deflator (1970 = 100)     183.3    195.7    218.0      251.0   313.6
Annual ercentage changes in
Price Deflator                        8.6      6.8      11.4      15.1    24.9
Bank Credit to public sector         44.6     72.0    100.4       77.4    32.9
Bank Credit to State Enterprises
and private sector               10.1      5.2      19.6      24.3      9.0
Note: All conversiorn to dollars in this table are at the awvrag exchange rate
prevailirg durirg the period covered.
1/ Based on 1970 prices.
Z/ At market prices.
i/ Total labour force.
4/   lxPDrt duties.                                            Apir 1983



- 30 -
Anrex I
Page 5 of 5
MADAGASCAR - TRAIE PAYNENT AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAIANE CF PAYMENTS                                MERCANDISE EXPCRTS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
1979  1980  1981 1/                              US$ MLn.    %
(US$ Million)
Coffee                        179.8     47.3
Vanilla                       26.8      7.0
Cloves                         49.5     13.0
Meat ard nmeat products        13.0      3.4
Exxrts of (bods & N.F.S. 465.9   492.7  383.5   Fish and shellfish              16.2      4.3
Imports of Goods & N.F.S. 933.6  1,059.2  725.7   Sugar                           7.9      2.1
Petroleum products             8.2       2.2
Resource Balance         -467.7  -566.5 -342.2   Chramite                        10.6      2.8
Other cannndities             68.3      17.9
Total                   380.2    100.0
Investment Income         -22.6   -37.9  -78.0
Private Trarsfers, Net      7.1     0.9   8.5   EX [RNAL EEBT, 1ECIEER 31, 1981
US$ Mln.
Current Account Balance   -483.3  -603.4 -411.9
Pablic Debt, incl. guaratteed    1,257.5
Mrect Foreign Investment   -6.6   -0.9  -0.7   Non-Garanteed Private Debt    _
Total Outstarn1irg & Disbursed    1,257.5
Net MLT Borrowirg:         251.5  274.5 226.3
17EHr SERV1I(E RATIO FCR. 1982 3/'
Disbursements            268.0  304.8  294.0
AnDrtization             -16.5  -30.3  -67.7                                  7%
Otber Capital (net) 2_      27.2  127.4 203.2   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed  35.0 4/
ChEnge in Reserves         211.1  202.5 -16.9
(increase = -)                                  IBRD/IIA IENDING, March 31, 1983
US$ nillion
IBED    DA
RATE OF EXCHANE            1979   1980   1981
Outstandirg &
US$1.00= =MG              212.72  211.30  271.73    Disbursed         30.56  185.34
FM   1 = US$              0.0047  0.0047  0.0037  Undisbursed                150.66
Outstardirg incl.
Undisbursed       30.56  336.00
1/ Provisional estimates from the Central Bank of
Madagascar
2/ Includes SDR allocations, public trarsfers,
state ars private slDrt-term capital, and
errors and omissiors                         3/ Debt service payments as % of eports of g,ods
ard services
4/ After effects of debt reschedulirg arangnerts
April 1983                                            under Paris Club



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983) 1/
*         Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                     Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
-------(US$ Million)------
Eight Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                                32.58   79.55        --
CR  506-MAG  1974   Madagascar  Village Livestock                     9.60       1.12
CR  641-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Highways IV                          22.00       4.90
CR  663-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Education II                         14.00 2/   2.67
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                  43.00 3/   6.63
CR  881-NAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture                12.00       3.63
CR  903-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways II                          13.00       0.94
CR  938-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                           24.00      21.03
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI                 5.00       3.62
CR 1002-NAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                     20.50      19.45
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum Exploration                12.50       5.27
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Bank - BTM                91.48 5/   8.36
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.            1.96 5/   1.81
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit                 10.25 51   8.87
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                          17.77 5/  15.69
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II 4/              13.95 5/  13.95
CR 1249-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Instituti-ons             5.67 5/   4.06
CR 1298-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
Exploration                    11.66 5/  10.66
CR.1337-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Lac Alaotra                          18.00 4/  18.00
TOTAL                                 32.58  343.89      150.66
of which has been repaid            2.02    7.89
TOTAL now outstanding                 30.56  336.00    150.66
Amount sold
of which has been repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    30.56  336.00
TOTAL undisbursed                            158.20       150.66
1/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/  Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/  Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/  Not yet effective.
5/  Computed at the February 28, 1982 exchange rate.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of May 31, 1983)
Loan      Equity    Total
(US$ Million)
1977   Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga          11.00       0.29       11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                             1.25        -         1.25
1983   Pecheries de Nossi-Be                      7.31       0.13        7.44
19 T.9 8-
C. Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983 1/
Credit No 641-MAG:        Fourth Highway Project;
US$22.0 million credit of June 23, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project assisted the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas with
a high agricultural potential.  It also includes training and strengthening of
the country's road maintenance administration. The start of the training
program for personnel in the Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has
been delayed due to lack of training facilities. Bids for construction of these
facilities were received and the contract has been awarded to the lowest bidder,
SARD, a local firm. Construction has begun and consultants Louis Berger have
started training 39 local instructors, utilizing some of the existing facilities
and equipment.
As of December 1982, about 80 percent of the project had been
completed; it is expected to be totally completed by June 30, 1984 or four years
behind schedule. This delay was induced by the then prevailing inefficiency of
the project management team prior to the appointment of the new Minister in
January 1982. The Minister has put in place a new management team, and the
project performance has improved. Disbursements which were very slow have also
started to improve following the shortening of administrative procedures.
Despite the delay in implementation, the project is still within estimated costs
and available financing.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
Credit No 663-MAG:      Second Education Project;
US$14.0 million of December 10, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing the
educational system and to improve the quality of basic education. It comprises
construction, furnishing and equipping of five Regional Education Centers (RECs)
including vehicles for the inspectorate, and a Teaching Materials Production
Center, including related technical assistance. Norway took 50 percent
participation in the project under an agreement signed on December 16, 1977.
Construction work on all five RECs is virtually completed. Most of
the furniture and equipment has been delivered and in three of the centers the
administrative facilities are already in use. The Teaching Materials Production
Center is completed and is at present producing educational material at a
limited level, awaiting the installation of supplementary equipment and
appointment of additional staff. Technical specialists provided under contract
with the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training (ORT) who started work
in 1977 have trained the technical local staff which is operating the Center.
Tenders for equipment to be financed under the project, for a printshop to be
added to the Center have been approved. Because of delays in the construction
of the printshop building, which is to be entirely financed by the Government,
it has been proposed that the equipment be temporarily installed in rented
premises. In order to allow for the completion of all project components,
including the training programs, the Bank Group agreed to postpone the Closing
Date first, from December 31, 1981 to December 31, 1982 and subsequently to June
30, 1983.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Credit No 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project;
US$43.0 million credit of June 19, 1978 (including a
Supplementary Credit of US$10 million of May 8, 1980);
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will meet the growth in electricity demand until about
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provides for the strengthening of JIRAMA. It
consists of a concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel,
underground power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two
generators; electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to
Antananarivo; engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a
storage reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA staff.
The project has operated successfully since it was placed into commercial
service on May 29, 1982.
Credit No 881-MAG:      Mangoky Agricultural Development Project;
US$12.0 million credit of May 17, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1980;
Closing Date: August 31, 1984.
The project supports the irrigation development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the lower Mangoky
valley in which 5400 ha has already been developed since the 1960s under
external and local financing for cotton and rice production. Project
implementation has been seriously delayed due to foreign exchange shortage for
the procurement of equipment and spare parts, to the financial, managerial and
technical problems of SAMANGOKY and to the overall difficult socio-political and
economic environment in Madagascar. Civil works have been stopped due to cost
overruns and agricultural production has slumped. As a result, SAMANGOKY is
virtually bankrupt and has had to be bailed out by government. In line with its
present policy and with the Bank's sector strategy of giving priority to
rehabilitation than to new development, government has proposed restructuring of
the Project to focus on rehabilitation of agricultural production and on
institution-building and to limit irrigation development to only 1500 ha; the
proposal also includes cancellation of SAMANGOKY's civil works contract to allow
it to focus on rehabilitation of agricultural production.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Credit No 938-MAG:        Fifth Highway Project;
US$24.0 million credit of July 30, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness:  March 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is intended to arrest the deterioration of the paved
highway network in order to reduce transport costs and, where possible, avoid
costly reconstruction works. It also includes construction of bridges on the
Antsohihy-Ambanja road and provision to increase the maintenance capacity of the
Ministry of Public Works. Co-financing is provided by a European Economic
Community Special Action Account credit of US$10 million.
As of September 1982, the project was 25 percent completed and is
scheduled to be totally completed by June 1984, or about 1 1/2 years behind
schedule. The delay was induced by the then prevailing inefficiency of the
project management team prior to the appointment of the new Minister in January
1982. The Minister has put in place a new management team, and the project's
performance has improved. Disbursement also has improved following the
shortening of administrative procedures. As a result of this delay and further
deterioration of the paved roads, the cost of the project has increased by about
36 percent. Given the Government's limited funds, the project would be reduced
within the available funds, with no significant adverse effect on project
objectives. AfDB has agreed to consider the Government's request to finance
part of the resurfacing works, and the Public Works Department is reviewing the
equipment list to adjust it to available financing.
Credit No 903-MAG:        Second Railway Project;
US$13.0 million credit of June 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the project are to help the Malagasy railway company
renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and efficiency of
its operations and improve its financial management and accounting methods. The
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided US$20.5 million in
co-financing.
Disbursements which were suspended in June 1983 were resumed in
Nomvember 1982. The last major item in this project is study of the viability
of the branch lines - Antananarivo-Antsirabe and Fianarantsoa-Manakara,
submissions for which have been received and will be reviewed during the next
mission.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Credit No 977-MAG:        Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project;
US$5.0 million credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 198 4.
The project supports Madagascar's industrial sector and BNI's crucial
development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign exchange requirements
to finance projects in the small- and medium-scale enterprise sectors. At end
of March, 1983 about US$3.6 million of the credit has been committed for medium-
and large-scale enterprises and for feasibility studies. However, the pace of
commitment of funds for small scale enterprises is slower, owing to the
difficulties BNI encounters in identifying bankable SSE projects.
Credit No 1002-MAG:    Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project;
US$20.5 million Credit of May 8, 198U0,
Date of Effectiveness: December 17, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. The main contracts for the
water supply works have been awarded and construction is about 40 percent
completed. Implementation of the Drainage and Sewerage component by the
Ministry of Public Works has scarcely progressed and the delay is now three
years behind the appraisal schedule.
Credit No 1016-MAG:    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project;
US$12.5 million Credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: August 20, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to develop a domestic
supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector. Implementa-
tion of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Geological and legal consul-
tants were employed to assist the Government in preparing data with a view to
promoting exploration by interested oil companies and in negotiating exploration
agreements. Four exploration contracts have been signed with Mobil, Occidental
Petroleum, Agip and Amoco. Other studies, technical assistance, a seismic
survey and training provided in the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
including a second round of bidding for exploration acreage.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Credit No 1065-MAG:    National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of January 7, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project supports the extension of seasonal, medium-term, and
long-term credit to smallholders through the National Bank for Rural Development
(BTM) for the purchase of improved seeds, pesticides, insecticides, fertilizers,
and small farm equipment. Due to poor repayment records on many loans extended
under the collective guarantee credit scheme, BTM has suspended these scheme in
many regions. This action has resulted in a significant drop in lending
activity. Consequently, BTM has been able to use only a small amount of Project
funds as it has only marginally exceeded the base period level necessary to
qualify for reimbursement from the IDA Credit. In addition, due to the scarcity
of foreign exchange, few inputs are available in Madagascar. To help remedy the
current situation, BTM has agreed with the Association that part of the Credit
be used to finance fertilizer imports destined for smallholders in selected rice
growing areas. These fertilizers will provide farmers with inputs and will
support lending operations directed to individuals rather than through
cooperatives. The Association is at present discussing with government a
proposal that a part of Credit funds should also be allocated to the import
spare parts and equipment for the agriculture sector.
Credit No 1086-MAG:    Plain of Antananarivo (Technical Assistance) Project;
US$2.3 million Credit of January 30, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to institute a
multisectoral approach to an integrated flood control and development program
for the Plain of Antananarivo area; it provides for strengthening the
coordinating role of the Directorate General of Planning of the Ministry of
Finance in the development of the Plain of Antananarivo. The contract for
pre-investment studies to define options for flood control programs and to
provide Government with elements for decision-making was awarded in late 1981
and work began in early 1982. Problems in obtaining aerial photographs delayed
completion of phase one of this phase. Phase one has now been satisfactorily
completed and a number of coherent technical schemes have been selected for
further study.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Credit No 1155-MAG:    Audit and Accounting Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of June 11, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: May 6, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31) 1988.
The project includes measures to develop a suitable legislative
framework for the accounting and auditing sector, to increse the level of
expertise in these professions through training, to strengthen the national
audit company RINDRA and to provide foreign expertise to local accounting firms
in dealing with their clients. Consultants have been retained to start the
design of the training programs and to help RINDRA carry out its audit missions.
Credit No 1161-MAG:    Second Mangoro Forestry Project;
US$20.0 million Credit of October 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 198 4.
The project will continue the reforestation program begun under the
first project, and will assist the Government's efforts to establish a forest
industry complex in the Mangoro Valley. Recent studies have shown that forest
yields will be lower than previously estimated.
The project unit has requested consultant assistance to verify these
disappointing results and determine their causes. The plantation programs have
also been scaled down. Studies are currently under way to determine the most
appropriate industrial development for the wood resources available. They have
already shown that, due to high investment costs and the depressed world market
situation for wood products, most export oriented industrial options show poor
financial and economic returns. The Secretary-General of Planning recently
requested the consultants carrying out the industrial studies to proceed with
detailed feasibility studies of two options: a wood pelletizing plant, which
would substitute in part for imported oil, and a particle board plant. In
addition, consultants are preparing a prospectus for a small kraftmill (75,000
TPA).
Credit No 1211-MAG:   Second Village Livestock Project;
US$15.0 million credit of April 15, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1983;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1987.
The Project supports the Government's efforts to increase beef
production and to improve the productivity of the sector through animal health
programs, the provision of veterinary inputs, technical assistance and
research. In Mahajanga province, basic animal health programs are being



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
extended, and a pilot animal production program, supported by rural road and
water supply components, is at the detailed planning stage. Veterinary supplies
and equipment for producing vaccines are being provided to improve the
countryside animal health program and management assistance and training for key
institutions in the livestock sector are to be provided. Recruitment and
training of personnel, construction and procurement of equipment, initiated
under the first phase project, are well advanced.
Credit No 1249-MAG:    Agricultural Institutions Technical Assistance Project;
US$5.7 million credit of May 28, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project focusses on institution building and redefinition of
sector investment programs and policies. Project activities are concentrated in
the following areas:  (a) management improvement programs for MPARA, (b)
strengthening agricultural planning, (c) rice sector studies, (d) management
improvement programs for selected agricultural parastatals, (e) strengthening
research operations, and (f) project preparation studies.
Implementation to date has been satisfactory and work is underway on a
number of components. Preparation of a three year (1984/86) agricultural
investment plan is well advanced and should be completed by the end of May
1983. The first phase of a rice sector study has been completed and preliminary
conclusions and policy recommendations have been discussed with government
officials. Work on the second phase of the study began in February 1983 and
will continue for the rest of calendar year 1983; at that time options open to
the Government in the area of pricing and marketing policies will be discussed
and a reform program will be agreed upon with the Government. Management audits
have been conducted and rehabilitation plans prepared for several priority
agricultural parastatals; implementation of these plans is now underway (or
about to begin). Restructuring and strengthening of several other key
parastatals is also planned under the project, as is development of a training
program for parastatal managers and accounting staff. Analysis of technical and
organizational problems facing the national agricultural research institute,
FOFIRA, has also been undertaken with assistance from IRRI and ISNAR, and
programs for strengthening performance in these areas are to be developed
shortly. In addition, work is to begin in the near future on helping MPARA
officials refine the ministry's new organizational structure and develop
operational procedures for headquarters and field staff.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Credit No 1298-MAG:   Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Exploration Project;
US$11.5 million credit of December 3, 1982;
Date of Effectiveness: January 21, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 198 6.
The project would support the Government's efforts to evaluate the
country's hydrocarbon potential with the objective of realizing domestic oil
production in the future.   It consists of a 10-well exploratory drilling
program to determine the characteristics of the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposit,
additional studies and training. Implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
A contract with a drilling company was signed in December 1982 and actual
drilling is planned to take place in Summer 1983.
Credit No 1337-MAG:   Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project;
US$18.0 million, credit of May 10, 1983;
Date of Effectiveness: September 6, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989.
The project would increase rice production and the marketed surplus in
the Lac Alaotra region, thereby saving foreign exchange expenditures on rice
imports. This would be mainly achieved through the rehabilitation of existing
irrigation infrastructure, the supply of farm inputs, and management and
institutional technical assistance.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MADAGASCAR
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Sixth Highway Project
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification:              1981/1982 in the course of implementation
of the Fifth Highway Project
(b)  Project preparation:         1981/1982
(c)  Appraisal Mission:           November/December 1982
(d)  Negotiations:                May 19 to 27, 1983
(e) Planned Date for Credit
Effectiveness:            October 1983
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) the Government would (i) by March 31, 1984, raise road transport tariffs
to a level acceptable to the Association, and (ii) by December 31, 1984,
deregulate road transport tariffs (para. 46);
(b) the Government would remove all restrictions on the selection of routes and
commodities to be transported by private transporters (para. 46);
(c) the Government would ensure that each year a quota in foreign exchange of
at least US$15 million equivalent is made available to commercial transport
enterprises to import the spare parts required by them to operate
efficiently (para. 42);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) the Government will establish a Road Fund to ensure that adequate, timely
and easily accessible funds are available exclusively for road maintenance
(para. 37).
Condition of Effectiveness
A condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement would
be an increase of tariffs for road transport by 40 percent (para. 46).
Condition of Disbursement
A condition of disbursement of the credit funds for the rehabilitation of
the private road transport industry component would be that a subsidiary
agreement, acceptable to the Association, between the Government and BNI
has been signed (para. 61).



IB R D 16909R
14-                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1982
Atsemnartra
MAD AGA SC AR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMI{C ROAD NETWORK-
NOSY 8                 rbd
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT:-         S[XTH HIGHWAY PROJECT: 
A  WORF.SHOP IMPROVEMENT            A+WOKSHP IMROVMEN
POAD REHABILITATION              - ROAD REHIAEHJTATION
___ ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND
9RtDGE CQNSTRUCTfO~!
EXISTiNG  ROADS:                                                                                                                 d
*-  PAVED,ROADS,Sebv
-   ENGINEERED EARTH{ ROADS                                                                RUlooc
----FEEDER AND RUJRAL ROADS                                         AOII
RAItROADS                                                                        ba..       Akj yAntaIcho
+  AfRPORTS                                                                                     tnkoy
RiVERS,---A
PROVINCE 8OUNDARIES                                                 Sf/a-/Miorer
I       l      t      E)ILOMETERS                                                    Mnrsr
A  Acorlonreco?  Vos~     AMEODIFOTOTRtA
~~              Feno~~riv~ Aistna~non
0,    OYb / ~,   +Tcoamsirh
Ante oco          4~~~Ank -b     +n        
.."baq!s ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~      TNnaa  ~ab
roarioman   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edir n,di
(7 n n i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tthe tTh bbn
~Ar~zoeb       Aetaanbhoba      ~         aoCeSthI                              t
M-dr~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aoaa n.e b.aAl
TmInbib-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a aMteboeto0
Mah.l.0"                                                   20'-~~~~~~~~~~~~r,te  rb  oap  b    h
-                                Vedtao                                      OataM.  e  dbaa-dy,
Setok  0 ~ '                                 -      eneraae   , aopr-o  a
mbct.fi-n   n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iVDA
b-&. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~CA
4?   44'                                                                                                (tACAhChb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N&  dr,



