Document of
The World Bank                             W  zlE   PIY  I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4399a-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGWAY PROJECT
June 2, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit   =   Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1            -   FMG 375
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km.)                0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (ki2)         0.386 sq. mile
1 square meter (m2)          =   10.76 square feet
Acronyms and Abbreviations
AfDF              African Development Fund
BADEA            Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BNI              National Industrial Development Bank (Bankin' Ny
Indostria)
CATP             MTP Training School (Centre d7Application des Travaux
Publics)
CCCE              Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CUM               National Tender Board (Commission Centrale des Marches)
DGE              Directorate of Works (Direction G6n6rale de l'Equipement)
DGP               Directorate General of Planning (Direction Gen6rale du
Plan)
DI               Division of Infrastructure (Direction de l'Infrastructure)
DMAT              Equipment Division (Direction du Materiel)
DPCH             Road Maintenance Division (Direction des Ponts-et-
Chauss6es)
EDF               European Development Fund (EEC)
EESP             National Technical College (PEtablissement d'Enseignement
Superieur Polytechnique)
FAC               Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
TFAD              International Fund for Agricultural Development
LNTPB            National Soils Laboratory (Laboratoire National des
Travaux Publics et du B6timent)
MIC              Ministry of Industry and Commerce (Ministere de
l'Industrie et du Commerce)
MPARA            Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere de la Production Agricole et de la Reforme
Agraire)
MTP              Ministry of Public Works (Ministere des Travaux Publics)
MTRT              Ministry of Transport, Supplies and Tourism (Ministere
des Transports, du Ravitaillement et du Tourisme)
RN               National Road (Route Nationale)
RNCFM            R6seau National des Chemins de Fer Malagasy
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Democratic Republic of Matagascar
Sixth Highway Proje<t
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.. The Transport Sector
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting ......... .................   1
B.  The Transport System .................................,.,    2
C   Transport Sector Management ..............................   5
D.  Planning ......................0...................   5
E.  Coordination ......................    .........    6
F.  Transport Sector Investment  ..............................   6
G.  Transport Policy and Issues ..............................    8
H.  Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector .............  12
Il[. The Highway Subsector
A.  The Network .      . ...............................           14
B.  Road Use           ................................   15
C.  The Road Transport Industry           . .................  17
D.  Traffic Regulations and Safety       ...........................  18
E. Administration .       .      .      ........................................  19
F.  Staffing and Training      ...................................  20
G.  Maintenance ............................................   20
H.  Planning and Financing of Investments ................   ....  21
I.  Engineering, Construction and Supervision ................ 23
III. The Project
A.  Objectives     ...............................................  25
B.  Project Description .       . ..............................,.,.26
C.  Project Cost and Financing ...............................  33
D.  Implementation and Procurement ......      .....................  37
E. Disbursements .................................................  39
F.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements .......... 40
G.  Environmental Aspects         ....................................  41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Madagascar in November/December 1982; members of the mission were A. Soto
(Deputy Division Chief/Economist), P. Sooh (Engineer) and C. Applegate
(Technical Editor). M. Le Blanc (Economist), C. Delvoie (Financial
Analyst) and J. Kipnis (Project Assistant) participated in the preparation
of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
IV. Economic Evaluation
A.  General ..     .       .... .       ........................ 41
B. Area of influence of the Program,
Benefits and Beneficiaries ................................. 42
C.  Economic Analysis . ...  ..        . .. ................. 43
V. Agreements Reached and Recommendation ..... . ................... 48
Annexes
1. Tables
2. Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
3. Road Transport Industry and Spare Parts Requirements
4. Highway Design Standards
5. Earth Roads to be Maintained by Contractors
6. Earth Roads to be Maintained by Force Account
7. Highway Equipment for Road Maintenance
8. List of Equipment for LNTPB
9. Outline Terms of Reference for a Study Furture Pavement
Maintenance and Strengthening Programs
10. Study of the Development of Feeder Roads
11. Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for the Trainng
Program and the Management of MTP Road Operations
12. Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of the Organization,
Management and Operation of MPT
13. Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance in Transport
Planning and Coordination
14. Terms of Reference for the National Transportation Plan Study
15. Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to LNTPB
16. Project Reporting Requirements
17. Economic Tables
18. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
C1arts:
1. Organization of MTP
2. Project Implementation Schedule
INLp
IBRD - 16909



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIX-TH HIGHWAY PROJiECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01       Madagascar, the fourth largest island in the world, covers an
area of about 590,000 km2.   The topography is generally rugged with a
central mountain range of up to 2,800 m high traversing the country from
north to south. The climate is marine tropical, but varies considerably:
cyclones and heavy rainfall are frequent on the east coast which has more
ithan 2000 mm of rain annually; rainfall diminishes towards the south and
west to less than 500 mm annually.  The combination of heavy rainfall over
much of the country and rugged topography make the construction and main-
tenance of roads as well as transport operation difficult and expensive.
1.02         The population, estimated at 8.7 million and growing at 2.8%
p.a., is predominantly rural with roughly 85% living in the countryside.
While, overall, the country is sparsely populated (about 14 per km2),
population distribution is uneven, with about one half of all inhabitants
occupying the central one-quarter of the island.
1.03        Agriculture is the dominant economic activity, accounting for
about 35% of GDP and 80% of Madagascar's export earnings.  The production
of rice, the country's staple food, is the most important economic activi-
ty.  Since 1970 production has stagnated, compared to the 2.8% increase in
population, causing a jump in imports of rice from about 60,000 tons in
1.975 to about 117,000 tons in 1980.  The principal export cash crops are
coffee, cloves, pepper, vanilla,  cotton, sugar and tobacco.   The small
manufacturing sector is dominated by food processing (including beverages)
aLnd textiles; other industries which have shown regular growth over recent
years have been cement, tobacco, leather goods (mainly shoes) and paper
products.
1.04      During the 1970s the Malagasy economy stagnated.  This, combined
writh the population increase, resulted in a 12% decline in per capita in-
come between 1970 and 1980.  In 1979 an investment boom took place in all
sectors of the economy. As this was financed mainly by foreign borrowing,
it left the country with a severe repayments problem; the external re-
sources deficit went from 5% of GNP in 1978 to about 17% in 1979.  Debt
servicing has put a great strain on the economy, acutely limiting foreign
exchange for other purposes and consequently sharply curtailing imports.
Shortages of new equipment and spare parts have been most acute in the
transport system, the capacity of which has been greatly diminished for the
movement of food and crucial supplies.



-2-
B. The Transport System
1.05       Madagascar's transport infrastructure comprises nearly 50,000 km
or roads of which about 4,900 km are paved; two unconnected railway systems
totalling 860 km; 4 main ports and 11 lighterage ports of some signifi-
cance; and 56 airfields.   The only navigable waterway is the Pangalanes
Canal along the east coast.  The system is inadequate in that it fails to
provide access to all productive areas of the country. The main transport
corridor between the port of Toamasina and the central plateau area -- the
country's lifeline -- is an inadequate railway line and an old road of
modest specifications the maintenance of which has been neglected.   The
poor maintenance of the road network during the 1970s has worsened the iso-
lation of several areas. In the face of inadequate overland communications
Madagascar has developed an air transport network that is denser than in
most comparable countries as well as an extensive system of ports and
coastal shipping.
Highways
1.06      The highway subsector is described in detail in Chapter II.
Railways
1.07      The railways consist of two, single tIrack systems.  The northern
system (about 700 km) includes (i) a line between Antananarivo, the capi-
tal, and Toamasina, the principal port (376 km); (ii) a line from Antanana-
rivo to Antsirabe, an industrial and population center south of the capital
(154 km); and (iii) a section north from Moraminga to the agricultural re-
gion of Lake Alaotra and the chromite mines (167 km).  The southern system
(163 km) connects the regional center of Fianarantsoa and the agricultural
areas in the southern plateau to the port of lanakara.  The Antananarivo-
Toamasina line is the most important link, since it is the only reliable
means of surface transport between the country's main seaport and the capi-
tal city. The railways are operated by the R4seau National des Chemins de
Fer Malagasy  (RNCFM), a parastatal agency reporting to the Ministry of
Transport, Supplies and Tourism (Ministere des Transports, du Ravitaille-
ment et du Tourisme, MTRT).
1.08       The rolling stock and locomotive fleet are generally adequate to
carry present traffic, although their condition is poor and their producti-
vity is low due to maintenance and operational problems. The track is also
in very poor condition. Progressive rehabilitation of the track and renew-
al of the railway's locomotive and wagon fleet are being undertaken within
the context of an ongoing project supported by the Bank Group, but progress
has been relatively slow.  The railway has also been plagued by financial
problems due to the inadequacy of tariff increases, the lack of financial
autonomy and poor financial procedures. As a consequence of all these fac-
tors, the railway's transport capacity declinecd during the last few years
to the point where it has been unable to meet transport demaiid and has be-
come a major bottleneck in Madagascar's economy. This deterioration is re-
fleacted in the decrease in total freight traffic from 861,000 tons in 1976
to 650,000 tons in 1981 (5.8% p.a.).



1.09      The Government hAs recently taken major steps to arrest the dete-
rioration of the railways by addressing the most urgent operational prob-
lems and resuming  a normal flow of spare parts.  This enabled the railway
to resume normal operations in 1982 and transport inland the backlog of
goods which had been piling up at Toamasina port.  Following suspension of
disbursements under the Second Railway Project (para. 1.45), the Government
molunted a complete financial recovery program for the railway, which in-
cluded (i) the granting of complete financial autonomy to the railway; (ii)
a schedule for reimbursement of Government arrears and the establishment of
appropriate procedures for paying current bills; and (iii) significant tar-
if f increases.   Introduction of this program enabled IDA to resume dis-
bursements under the project at the end of 1982.
1.10      These actions need to be sustained by setting up effective proce-
dures for operational planning and financial management to ensure a long-
term recovery. At the same time, the railway's long-term prospects must be
closely  analyzed:    the  railway  will  soon  lose  its  monopoly  on  the
Antananarivo-Toamasina corridor, when a parallel road, presently under con-
struction, is opened to traffic (towards 1985); the economic viability of
thie smaller lines, particularly the Southern line, is doubtful in view of
the low level of traffic.  The railway will thus need to adapt to increas-
ing road competition by improving services, introducing dynamic commercial
policies and specializing in the types of traffic for which it is most
suited, mainly containers and bulk traffic.
Air Transport
1.11        Given its size, the distance between population centers, the
rugged terrain and the poor condition of surface transport, Madagascar has
delveloped a dense domestic air transport network.  Of the 56 airports, 17
are built to all-weather standards including 5 suitable for international
flights; the remainder are gravel or grass strips.
1.12      Air Madagascar, the national airline, is owned 80% by the Govern-
ment, 18% by Air France and 2% by private shareholders. It provides inter-
national service to Paris, Marseilles and several countries in East Africa;
it has a monopoly on all internal service. Its fleet consists of one B-747
(combination cargo/passengers) for European service, two B-737s for domes-
tic and regional service, and two HS-748s and five Twin Otters for domestic
service.   It also has several smaller aircraft for air-taxi and charter
services.
1.13       While the international airport at Antananarivo handles 50% of
alL traffic, 40 of the small airports accounted for only 20% of the traf-
fic.   Serving the small airports is not financially profitable but is pro-
vided to ensure access to otherwise isolated areas. In the past, Air Mada-
gascar used its profitable international service to subsidize its money-
losing domestic service. As a result of rising costs and a decreasing load
factor on international operations (from 56% to 33% from 1976 to 1980 due
to increased capacity of the B-747), its financial situation has drastical-
ly deteriorated in recent years.  To help reduce the losses, in 1982 ser-
vices were terminated at 12 small airports handling fewer than 1,500 pas-
sengers p.a. and tariffs were increased by 28% in October 1982 and by 15%
in early 1983. The Government is reviewing measures to arrest the deterio-



-4-
rating financial situation including (i) sharing Air Madagascar's deficits,
initially on a 50-50 basis, with incentive programs for the airline to im-
prove efficiency as the Government takes on a greater share of the defi-
cits; (ii) as and when other transport alternatives become available, hav-
ing Air Madagascar abandon unprofitable services; and (iii) undertaking a
study on the viability and alternatives of providing long-distance interna-
tional services (i.e. Europe). Discussion of these measures began with the
Government during the preparation of a Transport Sector Memorandum (para.
1.29) and should be continued during a transport sector review between the
Bank and the Government scheduled for mid-1983.
Ports and Coastal Shipping
1.14        Madagascar relies almost exclusively on maritime shipping for
foreign trade,   while coastal shipping is important as the only means of
transporting freight between many areas of the country with no access to
all-weather roads. There are four main ports: Toamasina which handles 66%
of the total traffic, Mahajanga with 11%, and AnLtseranana in the north and
Toliara in the south, each with about 4% of total traffic.  The remaining
traffic is handled in the coastal shipping ports.   Toamasina,  the main
international port,   serves the populated and economically important cen-
tral highlands via the railway to Antananarivo. In view of the constraints
on the railway's transport capacity, some international traffic has been
diverted to Mahajanga.  Its capacity, however, is limited as the port re-
quires lightering and its use is restricted by the condition of the road to
Antananarivo (RN4). The port of Toamasina is adequately equipped to handle
present traffic, but the equipment of secondary ports is generally old and
in poor condition.
1.15      The Societe Malgache des Transports Maritimes (SMTM), the state-
controlled international shipping line operating four cargo vessels, car-
ried 7% of the country's externally traded merchandise in 1981.   Coastal
shipping is handled primarily by the Compagnie Malgache de Navigation- -
(CMN), 92% state-owned.   Its nine ships are relatively modern but CMN is
plagued by shortages of spare parts, difficult operating conditions, poor
handling rates in the ports and low productivity.   In addition to CMN,
there are several private companies operating mainly on the eastern coast;
however, they are fast disappearing because of the lack of spare parts and
insufficient tariffs.
1.16      Port traffic has stagnated due to the economic slowdown following
the political changes in 1972 (Annex 1, Table 1).  As a result, there is
considerable over-capacity in the ports, especially Toamasina. FAC is car-
rying out a study on ports and coastal shipping aimed at introducing more
effective and economic use of infrastructure and consolidating operations.
In view of this over-capacity, there appears to be need in the short to
medium term orLly for selective investments in rehabilitation of some faci-
lities and modernization of others (e.g. to handle container traffic).



-5-
C. Transport Sector Manag4ment
1.17      Whil.e several ministries and Government organizations share res-
ponsibility for the transport sector, the Ministry of Transport, Supplies
and Tourism (11inistere des Transports, du Ravitaillement et du Touirisme,
MTRT) and the Ministry of Public Works (Ministare des Travaux Publics,
MTP), play the most important role.  MTRT is responsible for road, rail,
air and water transport, and operates all airports and ports (except the
Port of Toamasina), and oversees several autonomous Government agencies,
including RNCF'M, Air Madagascar, the Port of Toamasina, CMN and the SMTM.
The MTRT has a dual role in road transport: it is responsible for safety,
tariffs, regulation and control as well as directing parastatals to trans-
port basic goods so as to ensure that no shortages occur anywhere in the
country.
1.18       MTP is responsible for planning, building and maintaining high-
ways, ports and airports. Its operations are described in Chapter II.
1.19)       In line with the Government's emphasis on the public sector,
numerous other Government agencies have varying degrees of responsibility
for transport policy, operations and services.  The most important are the
Ministry of Industry and Commerce (Ministare de l'Industrie et du Commerce,
MIC), the Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform (Minis-
tare de la Production Agricole et de la R6forme Agraire, MPARA), the Army,
the Directorate General of Planning (Direction Gen6rale du Plan, DGP), and
the regional governments.   MIC's role includes (i) controlling virtually
all state-owne,d enterprises responsible for collecting and marketing crops,
which represent a sizeable proportion of the road transport capacity, (ii)
determining, jointly with the Central Bank, the foreign exchange allocation
for importing road transport, maintenance and construction equipment, and
spare parts; (iii) establishing policies on importation and assembly of
motor vehicles, therefore significantly influencing the supply of transport
services; and (iv) influencing transport tariff's through the control of
prices  of basic  commodities.   MPARA and the Army operate  the largest
stat:e-owned road transport enterprises, the Socigite d'Int6r6t National pour
la Production Agricole (SINPA) and the Rggiment du Train, respectively.
Also, each reg:Lonal government (faritany) has established a regional truck-
ing company in the last two years.
D.  Planning
1.20       Inter-sectoral priorities are decided by DGP.  The Planning and
Programming Unit in MTRT's Directorate of Transport is charged with trans-
porl: sector planning.  Given, however, the low level of this unit within
the ministry and its small inexperienced staff, it is unable to prepare
sound plans and programs. Its task is further complicated by agencies out-
side MTRT, which prepare project and investment proposals without coordi-
nating them wiith MTRT. The Association and other bilateral and multilater-
al financing agencies have helped, not always successfully, to improve sec-
tor planning.  Under the First Railway Project (Credit 488-MAG), a trans-
porl: planning unit was established in the then Ministry of Transport and
provided with technical assistance.  However, the lack of qualified local
staiff, the low priority accorded the unit by Government and subsequent or-



-6-
ganLzational changes within the Ministry, including the branching off of
the Ministry of Public Works, considerably reduced the role and impact of
the unit.   FAC is currently providing technical assistance to MTRT for
planning in the coastal shipping and road transport subsectors.  During the
preparation of a Transport Sector Memorandum the Association discussed in
detail with Government the importance of improving sector planning.
Establishment of a new, high-level unit will be provided under the proposed
project with FAC participation  (para.  3.27).   Beyond that,  the recent
transfer of DGP from the Ministry of Finance (MF) to the Presidency and the
accompanying elevation in status of that agency should benefit overall
transport planning.
E. Coordination
1.21      In the past, intermodal coordination was less important since the
transport systems operated relatively independently except where the modes
linked.  As the subsectors have developed, intermodal planning and coordi-
nation have become indispensible. Moreover, the proliferation of transport
organizations, which began with the separation of the Ministries of Trans-
port and of Public Works in 1976, and the continuously expanding role of
the public sector in all aspects of transport have heightened the need for
better coordination.  The only regular coordination takes place during the
preparation of multiyear investment plans and annual budgets, and even then
the exchange oiE information and discussion of projects is inadequate. Ef-
ficient inter-agency coordinating mechanisms are clearly needed.   An im--
portant step in this direction has been adopted with the recent upgrading
of DGP.
F. Transport Sector Investnent
1.22       Madagascar inherited at independence a transport system which,
while sufficient for the evacuation of the country's main products, did not
facilitate national integration and trade. The road network contained gaps
-- several regions depended and still depend on a local port and coastal
shipping for external communications-- and the specifications of the main
road network were insufficient for modern road transport demands.   The
Government therefore invested heavily during the implementation of a
1978-80 investment plan in the expansion of its road network.  It also ex-
panded its air transport facilities and purchased a number of trucks, ships
and aircraft.    Even  though  transport's  27% share  in total investment



- 7 -
outlays during 1978-80 was not excessive, the modal allocations resulted in
overcapacity in some areas (coastal shipping, ports) and undercapacity in
other vital ones (road transport).  Moreover, the new transport equipment
has contributed to the deterioration of the balance of payments and the
worsening financial results of the parastatals which own the new equip-
ment. More significantly, maintenance of infrastructure and equipment was
neglected in virtually all modes with a consequent deterioration in the
quality and a rise in cost of transport services.   A 1980-82 plan only
aimed at completing the investment started in 1978-80 and contributed lit-
tle towards redressing the modal imbalance.
1.23      In view of the failure of previous plans and of the dismal over-
all economic situation, the Government, with the support of the Associa--
tion, has embarked on a program of economic reform, including the prepara-
tion of a 1983-85 public investment program.  The program envisages total
investments of FMG 417 billion (about US$1.1 billion) distributed as fol--
lows: industry (41%), agriculture (30%), transport (16%) and others, mainly'
social sectors (13%).
1.24      For the transport sector, the program aLims at completing ongoing
high priority projects, improving the utilization of existing assets, and
rehabilitating transport infrastructure and equipment.  The transport sec-
tor's share of the program totals FMG 67.8 billion (US$180.8 million), of
which FMG 40.0 billion (US$106.7 million) is foreign and FMG 27.8 billion
(US$74.1 million) is local costs. Of this, about FMG 46.1 billion (68%) is
for road transport, FMG 9.0 billion (13%) for rail transport, FMG 8.0 bil-
lion (12%) for air transport and FMG 4.7 billion (7%) for water transport.
Both the overall size and subsectoral composition of the new transport plan.
are more in line with the needs and constraints of the country than previ-
ous plans.  The road transport program includes 18 sub-programs for which
external financing has already been obtained and which represent about 77%,
of the proposed investment. The remaining 23% includes 10 sub-programs or
projects for which financing must be found or provided by Government.  Of
the 18 financed sub-programs, 7 correspond to ongoing operations being fi-
nanced by the Bank Group, African Development Bank (AfDB), Kreditanstalt
fiir Wiederaufbau (KfW), Norwegian Agency for Development (NORAD) and China,
and 11 to new sub-programs proposed to be financed by the Bank Group, Euro-
pean Development Fund (FED), AfDB, CCCE, FAC and USSR.   The plan does not
indicate order of priority or rates of return for such sub-programs, but
the majority are included within the framework of the proposed project and
are justifiable. Given the financial constraints, both in terms of foreign
exchange and local resources, a number of the smaall sub-programs or pro-
jects not included in the proposed project and which do not have any other
source of foreign assistance will have to be deferred or phased out.  Dur-
ing appraisal of the proposed project the Government agreed in principle to
limit its highway investments to those defined within the framework of the
proposed project and discuss its investment budget annually with the
Association (para. 2.25).
1.25        The railway investment program includes the rehabilitation of
bridges, track, shops and warehouses; the overhaul of locomotives and the
purchase of tools, materials and spare parts for maintenance of motive
power and rolling stock; and the purchase of new motive power, wagons, mo-
bile cranes, radio-telecommunication equipment, vehicles and ancillary



- 8 -
equipment.   Discussion of this program is being pursued in the course of
supervision of the ongoing Second Railway Project as economic analysis is
needed to determine the justification of parts of this program.
1.26      The program for air transport, essentia:Lly the maintenance of ex-
isting facilities and the reinforcement of landing strips to accommodate
largier aircraft as well as the minor improvements at Antananarivo's Inter-
national Airport to handle the Boeing 747, is reasonable.   Similarly, the
modest investments in water transport, mainly mainltenance of existing faci-
lities and protection of port structures, are reasonable.
1.27       In summary, although a number of individual components require
careful scrutiny and the overall program, particularly in road and rail
transport, may have to be scaled down, the 1983-85 plan provides a realis-
tic framework for investment planning in the sector.
G. Transport Policy and Issues
1.28      Despite a sufficient and broad resource base, Madagascar has been
unsuccessful in achieving an adequate and sustained rate of economic devel-
opment.  This has been partly due to policies that have often impeded rath-
er than facilitated economic development, as in the case of the transport
sector.   Government policy in the sector during the 1970s was to expand
transport infrastructure, increase the role of the state in providing
transport services, and control transport tariffs and fares as part of
overall price controls.   Because maintenance of transport infrastructure
and equipment was given a lower priority than construction of new facili-
ties and improvement of existing ones, the transport system deteriorated,
particularly in recent years, when imported materials and spare parts were
severely curtailed due to scarcity of foreign exchange.  The expanding role
of the state without adequate technical and adm inistrative foundation, a
shrinking private sector, and the difficult financial situation of trans-
port enterprises in both sectors, brought about a worsening of transport
serviices which threatened to paralyze the economy.
1.29      In order to reassess the situation and help the Government reori-
ent its sectoral policy framework, a transort sector review was carried out
in 1982.  Based upon the findings of this review and discussions with the
Government a Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) was published in February
1983.  The TSM identified in order of priority the following issues:
(a) the   need for financial recovery i-or transport enterprises
including the railways, the national airline and parastatal
trucking companies;
(b) the need for increased efficiency in the road transport in-
dustry including the removal of excessive state controls and
a clearer definition of the role of public and private sec-
tors;
(c) improved pricing policy in the sector;



- 9 -
(d) the need for a shift of emphasis from new investments to re-
habilitation and maintenance;
(e) :improvement of sector planning and coordination; and
(f) the need for increased manpower training and technical assis-
tance.
1.30       The dialogue induced by the TSM has generated substantial change
in Government's strategy in the sector.  Government has stated its inten-
tion to enable the private transporters to compete on equal terms with the
public sector.   Its agreement to the proposed US$10 million allocation
under the proposed credit for spare parts purchases exclusively for private
transporters is a first indication of its seriousness. Government has also
stated its intention to substantially reduce the fleets of the provinciaL
trucking companies by selling their trucks to the private or other more
finatncially  viable  trucking  parastatals.        Government  has  expressed
willingness  to move  towards  deregulation  of  goods  haulage  by  lifting
controls  on routes and inter-provincial services.   Government has also
recently increased tariffs substantially in air, rail and road transport.
Finally, there has already been a marked shift in planned emphasis from new
investment to rehabilitation and maintenance.   Government has, with IDA
assistance, selected about 10,000 km of the highest priority component of
the road network for rehabilitation and -maintenance  (para.  2.04).   The
small part of road components outside the 10,000 km in the Government's
draft Public Investment Program's (PIP) is expected to be accorded low
priority or dropped.   The PIP's component for other modes is much smaller
and contains practically no new investments. Notwithstanding the above im-
provements in Government's sector strategy and attitudes, much remains to
be done and is being addressed under the proposed project as discussed be-
low.
Need for a Financial Recovery Program
1.31       The financial difficulties of transport enterprises result from
unrealistic, regulated tariffs; shortage of foreign exchange for spare
parts and equipment renewal; and the lack of adequate design and prepara-
tion of new state-controlled transport parastatals.  As a result, several
transport agencies have had to severely curtail equipment maintenance and
are facing short-term cash problems and medium-term operational limita-
tions.   Accordingly,  the TSM recommended that the Government  (a) review
procedures for allocating foreign exchange, giving the transport sector its
due priority; (b) consider a moratorium on new investment in the sector and
concentrate on rehabilitating and maintaining infrastructure and equipment;
and (c) prepare a financial redressment program for the sector including
the revision of pricing policy (paras. 1.34-1.36), the rationalization of
transport services and the gradual elimination of subsidies.
1.32       As indicated earlier, the Government has already acted upon a
number of these recommendations.   It recently increased tariffs for road
transport (20% for passengers and 35% for freight), rail transport (20% for
passengers and 50% for freight) and air transport (12% for international
passenger service in 1981 and 28% and 15% for domestic service in 1982 and
1983, respectively). The railways' new financial autonomy will make future



- 10 -
tariff adjustments easier, especially after completion of the cost studies
prepared with FAC-financed technical assistance.   More increases for road
transport, especially the state-controled portion, are needed in the short
term to correct the serious imbalance between ccsts and tariffs; in the
longer term, the Government will need to liberalize road transport tar-
iffs.   Therefore, the Government has agreed to (i) raise road transport
tariffs for passengers and freight by 40% in the immediate future; (ii) by
March 31, 1984, further raise tariffs to a level acceptable to the Associa-
tion taking into account price variations between May 1983 (negotiations)
and March 31, 1984, and (iii) by December 31, 1984, deregulate all road
transport tariffs unless the transport plan study (para 2.12) provides
reasons satisfactory to the Association to do otherwise.  The 40% increase
in passenger and freight tariffs is a condition of effectiveness for the
proposed credit.
Need to EnhanLce the Efficiency of Road Transport Industry
1.33      The road transport sub-sector is hampered by lack of autonomy and
poor organization of parastatals, the diminishing role of the private sec-
tor and excessive controls and regulations of transport services. The most
adverse regulations include limitations on the routes and commodities to be
moved and restrictions on inter-provincial transport services.   Aware of
the deleterious effects of these policies, the Government has agreed in
principle to (a) have the private sector compete on equal terms with the
public sector; (b) rationalize and restructure the! road transport parasta-
tals by greatly reducing their fleets and making them operate on a commer-
cial basis; and (c) liberalize and deregulate the sector. The adoption of
these measures should provide an adequate environment for the development
of the private road transport industry and increase the efficiency of para-
statals.  The Gcvernment has agreed to deregulate road transport by remov-
ing all restrictions on the selection of routes and on commodities carried
by the private sector by December 31, 1984.
AdOption of a Sound Pricing Policy
1.34       The aim of the Government's pricing policy has been to restrain
inflation and to counteract monopoly and cartel tendencies. Almost all es-
sentiial commodities and services, including transport, are subject to some
form of price control. In the transport sector, tariffs for road transport
and coastal shipping were meant to be set by Government based on costs.
However, due to the complexity and variety of factors underlying the esti-
mation of costs, the shortcomings regarding assumptions, and the inadequacy
of basic data it: has been impossible to fix realistic tariffs.  While the
private truckers generally ignore official tariffs (para. 2.11), the para-
statals  must comply with them.   Both the public and private passenger
transport industries, on the other hand, comply with official passenger
fares.  This seriously affects the financial situation of transport enter-
prises, since tariffs are in some cases considerab:Ly below costs. As men-
tioned in para. 1.32, the Government has agreed tc increase tariffs by 40%
immedLately, followed by an adjustment to compensate for price increases by
March 31, 1984, and deregulation by December 31, 1984.
1.35        Transport of passengers, priority products and all services in
low density railway lines are heavily subsidized.  The preliminary results



- 11 -
of a recent costing exercise carried out by a consultant confirm this for
passenger traffic, with first class passengers and suburban services paying
less than half their marginal transport cost, while second class passen-
gers, surprisingly, cover full costs.  The ongoing Second Railway Project
provides for the setting up of a costing system and economic studies of low
density lines.  These will help the Government define an appropriate level
of tariffs reorganize present operations and close uneconomic lines.
1.36       International tariffs for shipping and air transport are set by
conferences or thrcugh competition and adhered to by Malagasy carriers.  In
the case of domestic tariffs for coastal shipping and air transport, tar-
iffs are set at unremunerative levels.  In many cases, however, these ser-
vices are the only reliable means of transport to some small communities.
Should they be  iaintained for social/developmentall considerations, an ex-
plicit direct subsidy should be paid to carriers. The maritime and coastal
shipp:ing study being carried out under FAC financing will address the tar-
iff issue in that mode.  No specific study or action is included under the
proposed project for air transport because the Government has already taken
steps to correct the tariff issue in this subsector (para. 1.32).
Maintenance vtersus New Investment
1.37      The need for a shift of emphasis away frcm new investments to re-
habil:itation and. maintenance is already being tackled in the draft PIP.
Moreover, under the proposed project Government will discuss its road sec-
tor program over the period January 1984 to December 1986.
Iuprovement of Investment Planning and Coordination
1.38        These two interrelated issues have already been discussed in
paras. 1.20 and 1.21, respectively.
Manpower Traiiig and Technical Assistance
1.39      Some of the problems now being experienced in the transport sec-
tor are due to the lack of sufficiently experienced and qualified person-
nel. The ongoing Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects contain important tech-
nical assistance and training components. The proposed Sixth Highway Pro-
ject will further reinforce those efforts (paras. 2.17-2.19 and 3.11-3.13).
Outstanding Issues
1.40       Most of the main issues faced by Madagascar's transport sector,
especially those dealing with highways and  road transport, have been ad-
dressed under orgoing operations or will be addressed under the proposed
project.   There are, however, a number of issues which, while important,
deserve a lesser priority and could be more properly handled in the frame-
work of specific operations in other sub-sectors.   Such is the case of
pricing policy in the port subsector and operational efficiency of coastal
shipping.  They wqill be the object of discussions in the course of the con-
tinuous sector dialogue between the Association and the Government and will
be addressed in detail in a subsectoral operational context.



- 12 -
H. Previous Bank Group Assistance in the Sector
1.41      Bank Group lending to the transport sector has amounted to US$128
million for eight projects.  Lending has comprised five highway projects
(Credit 90-MAG, US$10 million, 1966; Credit 134/Loan 570-MAG, US$8 million,
1968; Credit 351-MAG/Loan 876-MAG,  US$30 million,  1973; Credit 641-MAG,
US$22 million, 1976; Credit 938-MAG, US$24 million, 1979 plus an EEC Spe-
cial Action Credit of US$10 million), two railway projects (Credit 488-MAG,
US$6 million, 1974; Credit 903-MAG, US$13 million, 1979) and a port project
(Credit 200-MAG, US$9.6 million, 1970, increased by US$1.8 million in
1973). A detailed description of these projects is given in Annex 2.  Fur-
ther, several Bank Group agricultural projects have included feeder roads
and three proposed projects (Lac Alaotra Rice Intensification Project,
Second Village Livestock and Rural Development Project and the Cotton
Development Project) in that sector call for the construction and/or reha-
bilition of additional feeder roads.
1.42       The focus of the first three Bank Group projects in the highway
subsector was on helping the Government pursue its objective of providing
better road access to regional economic centers.   In total the three pro-
jects financed the construction to paved standards of 708 km of roads.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) for the three projects indicate
re-evaluated ERRs for individual roads generally acceptable. Design diffi-
culties, construction delays and lower than anticipated traffic increases
or benefits from value added to agricultural production have resulted in a
few ERRs lower thlan those anticipated at appraisal. The PPAR for the Third
Highway Project identified the lack of training and maintenance components
as the main shortcoming in the Bank Group's assistance to Madagascar for
highway development.   Roads financed under  these  projects  were already
showing signs of deterioration when the PPAR was written due to inadequate
maintenance and, to a lesser extent, a failure to enforce weight regula-
tions.
1.43       The Association's attention was therefore shifted from expansion
and improvement of the road network to road maintenance and institution
building. The ongoing Fourth Highway Project was designed to improve road
maintenance activities, institution building and staff training through a
study to evaluate road maintenance needs (equipment and personnel), pro-
curement of road maintenance equipment and weighbridges, and initiation of
a training program, in addition to the construction to gravel standards of
a 370--km secondary road and reconstruction to paved standard of a 67-km
section of RN 1. The Fifth Highway Project was designed to strengthen road
maintenance operations. It includes procurement of additional road mainte-
nance equipment, improvement of workshops and road regravelling operations
as well as construction of bridges and drainage structures on a 165-km road
and rehabilitation of sections of RN 4 and RN 7.
1.44       The execution of the Fourth and Fifth Highway projects has, how-
ever, been hampered by a poor organization and frequent changes in the man-
agement and staff of MTP, cumbersome administrative procedures, lack of ex-
perienced personnel, and shortage of funds. As a result, the projects have
been delayed by three years and one year, respectively, and the road net-
work has deteriorated further. To solve these problems, the Government has
put in place a more efficient organization, stabilized the management of



- 13 -
MTP and shortened some administrative procedures. These measures have im-
provedl the implementation of the projects with significant results in road
maintenance operations.   Further measures to be taken under the proposed
Sixth Highway Project include a study to make recommendations on how MTP
can carry out road operations more efficiently and assist rural communities
in the improvement of rural and feeder roads (para. 3.25), provision of two
experts to serve as line managers in MTP (para. 3.24), streamling of pro-
curement procedures (para. 2.30) and provision of sufficient and timely
funds for road uaintenance through the establishment of a road fund and a
revolving  fund  (para.  2.25).   Also under  these previous  projects  the
Government has not allocated sufficient foreign exchange to contractors,
suppliers and ccnsultants working under Association projects even though
the credits covered the foreign exchange costs.  This has resulted in de-
lays in project execution. To eliminate this problem, the Government will
ensure that all authorizations required for the importation of goods fi-
nanced under the proposed project are given within two weeks of the final
approval of the related contracts and before notification of these con-
tracts.
1.45      The First Railway Project financed a modest increase in capacity
and improvements in management and operations.  It: also included the set-
ting up of a planning unit (para. 1.20).  The project had to be reduced in
scope due to cost overruns and was completed three years behind schedule;
the institution-building objectives of the project were not achieved
because of the overall political uncertainty in the country, and the
recalculated rate of return was less than 10%.  The ongoing Second Railway
Project continues the rehabilitation efforts undertaken in the First Rail-
way Project; it provides replacement of outdated equipment, track renewal,
improvement of telecommunications and workshops, and implementation of the
recommendations of the consultants on the management of the railway.  Al-
though the physical elements of the project have been implemented satisfac-
torily, the railway faced severe operational and financial difficulties,
and the recommendations of the consultants on financial management could
not be implemented because of the lack of financial autonomy of the rail-
way. This led to credit suspension in June 1982; suspension was lifted in
December 1982 afiter the Government prepared a complete financial recovery
program for the railway, including a change in the railway's statutes giv-
ing it complete financial autonomy. The Government also agreed to use the
remaining credit funds for technical assistance tco improve financial man-
agement and training for a new financial directorate and feasibility stud-
ies to be carried out on two lines whose economic viability is in ques-
tion.  The port project provided for extension of the pott of Toamasina,
creation of a pcrt authority and training.   The physical components were
satisfactorily carried out, but the revised rate of return was 7% due to
the decline in traffic since 1972 (para. 1.16). In;stitution building even-
tually contributed to more efficient management after some initial prob-
lems.



- 14 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01        The road network comprises about 49,650 km of roads, of which
about 4,890 km are paved roads, 5,260 km engineered earth and gravel roads
and 39,500 km feeder roads and tracks.  The roads are classified adminis-
tratively and technically as shown in the following table:
Table 2.1:  The Road Network (1982)
(km)
Paved    Engineered    Feeder          Total
Earth/Gravel  Roads
& Tracks
National roads                     4,350          4,260         -          8,610
(Routes Nationales, RN)
Regional Roads                        540         1,000        9,500      11,040
Others                                 -            -         30,000     30,000
TOTAL                     4,890         5,260       39,500      49,650
Nationial roads link regional capitals and major towns while regional roads
link smaller towns and villages within and between regions.
2.02      The paved road network, the most important element of the surface
transport system, consists of a main north-south artery -- RN4 and RN7 --
stretching from the regional center of Mahanjanga in the north, to Antanan-
arivo in the center and continuing to Fianarantsoa in the south-central re-
gion.   Other paved roads branch off from  this ce-ntral axis or are found
around the major coastal towns. The paved and engineered earth/gravel road
network is adequate in length and meets the Governnent's objective of con-
nectin,g all regional capitals by all-weather roads, a goal achieved under
the Fifth Highway Project with the construction of bridges, approaches and
drainage structures on the Antsohihy-Abanja road. However, some productive
and potentially productive areas on the east and west coasts are still not
connected to the rest of the country by all-weather roads.  Road links to
the southern regiLon are mainly earth roads or tracks, most of which are in
poor condition although, with the dry climate prevailing most of the time,
they are passable year round.  The Government has obtained financing from
the Federal Republic of Germany to upgrade to paved standards the road from
Ihosy  to Sakaraha, which will provide the final link of the north-south
road axis.
2.03        The road network is in poor condition and constitutes a con-
straint on econoriic activity.  Deterioration of the roads has been caused
by a combination of a lack of maintenance and overloading of trucks. About
80% of the paved roads show signs of deterioration (uneven surfaces,



- 15 -
ravelled edges arLd washed away shoulders). Of these, 50% require full re-
habilitation to restore the pavement to serviceable condition, while about
30% require resurfacing to avoid further deterioration and costly repairs.
Most earth and gravel roads are in an equally poor state.   Many of the
roads which serve rural areas have deteriorated to the point where they are
barely passable to motorized traffic. As a result, many agricultural areas
can only be reached on foot or by ox cart.  The distribution of agricul-
tural input is difficult and collection of crops is seriously hampered.
2.04      In view of the general deterioration of the road network and the
limited  resources  (organization,  manpower  and  finances),  the Government
selected, with the assistance of the Association, a limited road network,
the "Economic Road Network" (see Map) which will be rehabilitated and main-
tained within the available  resources.   This network consists of about
10,000 km of roads comprising 4,300 km of paved roads (about 90% of the
country's paved roads,  including the 1,100 km, all-important north-south
axis RX4 and RN7); 3,300 km of engineered earth roads (60%) and 2,400 km of
feeder roads and tracks (6%).   This network is essential to the country's
economic development, linking main production centers, market places, prin-
cipal cities, and railway, port and airline terminals.  Major rehabilita-
tion and maintenance operations are being carried out on many of these
roads under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects and improvements are
noticeable on some of the major links.  The proposed project will assist
and expand these efforts.
B. Road Use
2.05       The country's total vehicle fleet is estimated at 30,000 vehi-
cles, of which 13,000 are light vehicles and 17,000 are commercial vehicles
(11,000 utility, 1,000 buses and 5,000 heavy trucks); the heavy trucks are
the most important element,  carrying about 80% of freight traffic.   The
growth of the vehicle fleet has slowed considerably in the past several
years due to the stagnation of the economy and the severe shortage of for-
eign exchange which has in effect stopped the import of new vehicles. From
1977 to 1980, the overall fleet grew by 3% p.a. The largest increase (9.4%
p.a.) was in the number of pick-up trucks which are more practical to
operate  than heavy trucks on the badly deteriorated roads.   Trucks and
buses only grew at about 3.6% p.a. and the number of cars dropped by an
average of 4% p.a.    Since 1980 the severe shortage! of spare parts result-
ing from the foreign exchange crisis has led to a drastic decline in the
number of serviceable vehicles.  The composition and. condition of the vehi-
cle fleet as of December 1982 are shown in Annex 3, Table 1.
2.06       Traffic counts indicate a wide variation in traffic volumes de-
pending on the tylpe of road: average daily traffic ranges from about 1,000
vehicles on paved roads near the main cities to about 20 vehicles on earth
roads.   Traffic has generally stagnated since 1978 and on some secondary
roads :Lt has actually decreased.  The decrease in the number of cars as a
proport:ion of the total vehicle fleet, the lack of spare parts and the con-
dition of the road network have been some of the major reasons traffic
levels have changed little in recent years.  Another important factor has
been the overall istagnation of the country's economy.



- 16 -
2.07        Total consumption of motor vehicle fuel (Annex 1, Table 2) has
fluctuated around 290 million litres p.a. during the past eight years, re-
flecting the stagnation of the economy and traffic volumes.   As shown in
that table, domestic prices of petroleum derivatives increased following
the suidden hike in world oil prices in 1973, but increases did not keep
pace with foreign. levels.  It was only after 1978/79 when price increases
accelerated; between 1978/79 and 1981/82 the price of gasoline rose 132%
and diesel 108% in current terms.  Accordingly, as shown in Table 2.2 be-
low, the pump pr:ice of both products more than covers their international
price (i.e., the relevant opportunity cost).  Howevrer, the price differen-
tial between the two fuels has widened, reflecting a Government policy
aimed at encouraging the utilization of diesel-powered transport. Although
the general leveL of road user charges is adequate (para. 2.26), and un-
doubtedly passenger vehicles pay for the use they make of the roads, it is
not c]ear whether heavy trucks pay their share of road costs given the
relatively lower taxes and duties for diesel users.  To establish the fair
share of charges in order to avoid possible uneconomic cross-subsidization
of diesel users by consumers of gasoline, the planning unit in MTRT will
examine current road costs and road user charges within the framework of
the proposed project (para. 2.12).
Table 2.2: Price of Gasoline and Diesel Fuel
(USe per US gallon)
Gasoline         Diesel
Retail pricel!                        307.17          140.75
International Price                   128.52          129.93
(C.I.F. Toamasina)2/                 (108.00)        (1()9.00)
(Transport and distribution)          (20.52)         (20.93)
Retail price as % of
international price                239.01           108.33
1/ Includes a tax component of US$0.63 for gasoliine and US$0.36 for de
sel.  No shadow pricing of foreign exchange has been considered nec die-
ry following CIFh rcent adoption of a crawling peg System of exchange
rate adjustments.
2/ Based On CIF price Of gasoline and diesel at Toamnasina for 1982.



- 17 -
C. The Road Transport Industry
Freight Transport
2.08      The road transport industry comprises state-owned and private en-
terprises, a large number of individual owner-operators and a few coopera-
tives. Although the state owns about 40% of existing capacity (about 2,000
of the total 5,000 heavy trucks), it controls the tovement of basic commo-
dities. Until recently the public sector included only several large trad-
ing firms and some parastatals, such as regional development agencies, or-
ganizing transport for their own use.   At the end of 1980, however,  the
Governnent created a trucking enterprise in each of the country's six ad-
ministrative regions in line with its policy of expanding its role in the
transport sector. In general, however, these enterprises lack trained per-
sonnel and maintenance facilities, and operations have been poor.  Private
entrepreneurs, who account for the greater part of freight transport, have
since 'been reluctant to enter the industry or to expand their operations.
The acute shortaEre of new vehicles and spare parts has placed additional
stress on the industry.
2.09       As private truckers have been relegated to a secondary position
in the allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of vehicles and
spare parts, the shortage of spare parts has become their most urgent prob-
lem. M4TRT recently completed a survey of Madagascar's road transport fleet
with the help of FAC; the major findings are summarized in Annex 3, Tables
2-4.  The report shows that imports of spare parts fell drastically during
the last two years:  from an average of US$20-25 million p.a. to US$5 mil-
lion in 1981 and US$10 million in 1982.  (The drop in new vehicle imports
followed the same trend except for trucks imported directly by the Govern-
ment.) As a result, more than half the private trtbck fleet is out of ser-
vice for lack of spare parts.   The report estimated the emergency spare
parts needs, that which is required to overcome the maintenance backlog and
to put the entire motor vehicle fleet back in operation, at US$20 million,
of which US$10 million constitutes the minimum needed to rehabilitate the
private truck fleet. Normal annual recurrent needs for the total fleet are
estimal:ed at about US$20 million for spare parts, of which US$15 million is
required for commercial vehicles, both public and private.   This amount,
however, may be overstated as it includes the Government-owned fleet, most
of which is new and for which spare parts are allocated directly or are
still covered by the purchase contracts for the trucks.
2.10      The proposed project includes a pilot scheme to meet the emergen-
cy needs of the private truckers  (paras.  3.14-3.20).   While the project
will help meet emergency needs of private truckers, the Government will al-
locate a minimum of US$15 million in foreign exchange annually during im-
plementation of the proposed project to meet the normal, recurrent spare
parts needs of the entire commercial vehicle fleet (para. 2.05),  and by
December 31, 1986 the Government and the Association will exchange views on
estimated import programs for spare parts for commercial transport enter-
prises for the next three years.  Additional external assistance is likely
to be needed to meet normal replacement and expansLon requirements of the
entire road translport industry; it is expected to be provided by FAC.



- 18 -
2.11       There are no barriers to entry into the industry after payment of
appropriate fees, taxes and insurance. By statute the MTRT is responsible
for regulating the motor transport industry, but in practice its role is
limited  to  setting  rates  for  transport between  provinces.   Provincial
authorities are responsible for rate-setting within their provinces.  The
official rate system, however, is not respected as costs have escalated
faster than MTRT's ability to make rate adjustments. As a result and for-
tuitously, tariffs are now generally governed by supply and demand and vary
considerably according to road condition, season and region, except for
those commodities moved by parastatals.
PassengerpTransport
2.12       Passenger transport is more closely regulated than the trucking
industry. MTRT and provincial authorities regulate passenger transport de-
pending on whether the service is between or within the provinces. Indivi-
dual carriers may operate independently for only one year, after which they
must join an existing cooperative or form a new one (the law requires a
minimum of seven members).  Rates are based on the type and condition of
the road, but they are not reviewed frequently enough to reflect changes in
operating costs, and the methodology for cost analysis could be improved.
MTRT's planning unit (para. 3.27) will be responsible for carrying out a
study which will include recommendations on road user charges and fuel
prices and taxes, as well as the cost structure of road passenger ser-
vices.  The terms of reference for this study will be approved by the Asso-
ciation.   The study will be completed no later than December 31, 1984;
after submission of the study and recommendations to the Association, the
Government shall promptly take appropriate action resulting from the study,
taking  into  accoLnt the  Association's  comments.   In  the  interim, the
Government will rsLise tariffs for passenger transport by 40% (para. 1.32)
in addition to the 20% increase made recently.
D. Traffic Reulations and_Safety
2.13       Regulations governing truck weight and dimensions are adequate.
Weight regulations allow loads up to 10 tons/axle; weighbridges were bought
under the Fourth Highway Project to help enforce these regulations but en-
forcemernt remains poor.  Recent spot surveys have revealed that more than
60% of trucks are overloaded and many exceed legal dimensions.  Since en-
forcement has been lax, the Government has agreed to ensure that importa-
tion of vehicles is limited to those which meet all weight and dimensions
specifications for road use.   In addition, the Minister of Public Works
will have the sole authority to approve the technical aspects of import
licenses for trucks, the assembly licenses and the road licenses for
trucks.
2.14        While IMSadagascar has adequate laws governing road safety, en-
forcement is lacking.  Driver education, licensing arnd vehicle registration
are hardly more than formalities.  Vehicle inspection is carried out spora-
dically and superfEicially.  Although statistics on traffic accidents are
scattered and inconclusive, the many demolished vehicles scattered along
major roads point to a high toll of accidents.  The Government will prepare
and submit to the Association by December 31, 1983 an action plan to im-



- 19 -
prove enforcement of safety regulations and, taking into account the Asso-
ciation's comments, to implement the plan no later than June 30, 1984.
E. Adiministration
2.15       In pri'nciple MTP is responsible only for the administration of
national roads; provinces administer regional roads and communities ad-
minister feeder roads and tracks.  In practice, however, MTP's assistance
is sought for all significant improvement and maintenance works on the en-
tire 50,000 km network.  This overextension of MTP is one of the problems
impeding efficient and proper road maintenance. To alleviate this problem,
the Government has selected, with Association assistance, a limited network
of 10,000 km (para. 2.04) for which MTP will be responsible. This network
includes the most heavily used roads in the country, carrying about 90% of
the traffic, and the most economically important as determined by MTRT,
MPARA, and MIC. The road rehabilitation and maintenance program envisaged
under the project: (paras. 3.03-3.09) is confined exclusively to this net-
work. The remaining 40,000 km are mostly tracks and serve local communi-
ties for administrative services and subsistence agriculture. In the short
to medium term, maintenance and improvement of these tracks will be carried
out within the context of rural agricultural, health and sanitation pro-
jects, with technical assistance from MTP. As MTP's capacity increases, it
will gradually assume responsibility for the maintained and improved
tracks In the longer term a study will be carried out under the proposed
projecl: to determine the appropriate means and organization to maintain and
improve these roads (para. 3.25).
2.16      MTP's alministrative organization was set up in 1977 giving con-
siderable authority and independence to the regions and districts in line
with the Government's decentralization policy.   This organization was a
major impediment to effective road maintenance: regions and districts were
accountable to no one, and single pieces of equipment were given to small
work uniits incapable of carrying out maintenance operations. MTP was reor-
ganizecl in April 1982 (Chart 1) to bring about greater efficiency and ac-
countability.   Administrative, financial, planning and training functions
are  grouped  under  the  General  Secretariat.    Technical  operations  are
grouped under the Directorate of Works (Direction GgnMrale de l'Equipment,
DGE).  The divisions under DGE responsible for road works are the follow-
ing:   (i) Division of Infrastructure (Direction de l'Infrastructure, DI)
which is in charge of design and construction; (ii) the Road Maintenance
Division (Direction des Ponts et Chaussges, DPCH) which plans and executes
road muLintenance operations through its seven regional offices correspond-
ing to the six regions and the special subdivision of Taolanaro and their
42 subdivisions; and (iii) the Equipment Division (Direction du Materiel,
DMAT) which purchases road maintenance equipment, spare parts, material and
supplies;  maintains equipment;  stores spare parts:; and operates   work-
shops. Although the organizational set-up is still relatively new, it ap-
pears t:o be well-adapted to MTP's needs and has already begun to yield
operational improvements.



- 20 -
F. Staffing and Training
2.17       A shortage of qualified and experienced staff at all levels is
hamper:Lng maintenance operations;  in addition,  the work force is poorly
managed. For the administration of roads, MTP employs about 50 engineers,
700 technicians and 2,000 skilled and semi-skilled laborers.  This staffing:
strengt:h is numerically adequate for MPT's current operations and will re-
quire only minor increases to cope with future workloads.  However, MTP's
engineers and technicians are young and generally inexperienced: about 90%
of the engineers and 70% of the technicians ire under 40 years old.  This
problem became acute after 1972, when a large number of expatriates who had
filled key positions in MTP left the country and Malagasy nationals without
adequate preparation filled the vacancies.  The proposed project will fi-
nance two experts to serve as line managers in MPI for three years and a
study to further improve MPT's organization (paras. 3.24 and 3.25).
2.18      Civil engineering/technical training in Madagascar emphasizes the
theoretical rather than practical aspects. The technical college in Antan-
anarivo (l'Etablissement d'Enseignement Superieur Polytechnique, EESP) pro-
vides al four-year program in civil engineering; about 20 students graduate
annually.  EESP's civil engineering department suffers from a shortage of
qualified lecturers, inadequate training equipment,, and a lack of funds.
The country's 20 secondary technical schools have two to four year programs
to train technicians; they produce about 250 graduates annually.  Although
the numkber of traiinees is sufficient to fill vacancies in MTP, the theore-
tical training is not always complete and practical training is almost
non-existent. The only practical training and refriesher courses available
to MTP staff are given at MTP's own training center (Centre d'Application
des Travaux Publics, CATP).
2.19      To improve the training of MTP personnel, a 1978 study by consul-
tants Louis Berger (USA) under the Fourth Highway Project recommended: (i)
improving EESP's engineering and technical courses by appointing a full-
time lecturer for the roads sector and procuring training equipment; and
(ii) rehabilitating CATP and giving it the means to conduct a long-term,
countrywide program of practical and, to a lessear extent, theoretical
training for middle and lower level supervisors and craftsmen. The Fourth
Highway Project is financing the rehabilitation and equipping of CATP and
consultants are training instructors. Some 32 instructors are enrolled in
this program and are scheduled to graduate by mid-1984. A highway expert
is giving refresher courses to 27 MTP engineers at CATP. The proposed pro-
ject will continue and expand this program, including the training of en-
gineers, technicians and skilled laborers (paras. 3.11-3.13).
G.  Maintenance
2.20       During the past decade the Government concentrated on building
access roads to regional economic centers and paid little attention to
maintenance.   Consequently, inadequate road maintenance is now the most
serious problem facing the subsector and the effects are being felt
throughout the economy, especially in the agricultural sector where farmers
are finding it increasingly difficult to get their crops to the markets.



- 21 -
The Government has therefore decided to concentrate most of its financial
and manpower resources in the subsector on maintenance. Under the proposed
project, rehabilitation and maintenance will be confined exclusively to the
10,000-km "economic" network (para. 2.04).
2.21      The main problems preventing proper maintenance have been (i) an
excessively decentralized road maintenance organization, making accountabi-
lity iripossible and distributing single pieces of equipment to small units
incapable of mounting road maintenance operations; (ii) lack of equipment
maintenance; inadequate workshop facilities, equipmient and tools; and low
equipment availability due to a shortage of spare parts; (iii) cumbersome
administrative and procurement procedures; (iv) shortage of qualified road
maintenance technicians; (v) inadequate and untimely allocations of funds
for road maintenance; and (vi) poor management, budgeting and implementa-
tion of maintenance operations.
2.22      Major sl:eps have already been taken to remedy some of these prob-
lems under the ongoing Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects.  First, in early
1982 MTP was reorganized and, as required under the Fifth Highway Project,
a central unit was established and given overall responsibility for mainte-
nance of national roads.  Regional engineers are now accountable to a cen-
tral authority and procedures have been simplified.   Secondly, equipment
has been regrouped at the regional level ending the highly inefficient
practice of spreading individual pieces of equipmnent among small work
units.   Thirdly, the rehabilitation of maintenance equipment has accele-
rated; equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies are being provided
under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects to fully equip five earth-road
brigades and six resealing and patching brigades.   Three earth-road bri-
gades are fully operational as are two patching and resealing brigades; the
remaining brigades are scheduled to be operational in mid-1983.   Contrac-
tors are carrying out rehabilitation works on sections of RN 4. Fourthly,
the  workshops  in  Antananarivo,  Mahajanga,  Toliara,  Fianarantsoa  and
Toamasina are being equipped and improved to maintain equipment effective-
ly. Fifthly, a permanent training center has been established and a train-
ing program for road maintenance personnel is in operation.
2.23         The proposed Sixth Highway Project would continue and expand
these operations by (i) helping strengthen the management and organization
of MTP by providing technical experts and studies (paras. 3.24-3.25); (ii)
providing complementary equipment for seven multi-purpose brigades and con-
tinuing to improve workshops (paras. 3.06-3.07); (iii) assisting in simpli-
fying procurement procedures (para. 2.30); (iv) ensuring that the training
needs of MTP are fulfilled (paras. 3.11-3.13); and ensuring adequate and
timely funds for road maintenance (para. 2.25).
H. Planning and Financing of Investments
2.24       Short- and long-term planning in the road subsector is carried
out by MTP's Planning and External Affairs Unit.  In preparing the plans,
it gathers data from MTRT, MIC and MPARA to determine individual projects
and the timing of their execution, and to identify and arrange financing.
The Unit thereafter prepares annual investment budgets, monitors execution
of the plans and produces annual implementation reports.   Under the new



- 22 -
Public Investment Plan, 68% of the investments in the transport sector will
be for the road subsector (para. 1.24).  The previous 1978-80 development
plan called for an overly ambitious construction and rehabilitation pro-
gram.  Since the end of that period, construction has generally been con-
fined to projects for which Madagascar has been able to find outside fi-
nancing.
2.25       Road maintenance is financed from the general budget while new
construction is f:Lnanced from the investment budget which comes mainly from
external sources. Thus, funds for new construction do not have to compete
with other sectors for scarce local funds.  Since [975, an average of FMG
1.9 billion (US$5.1 million) per year has been allocated to road
maintenance, well below the minimum FMG 5 billion required under the Credit
Agreement to the Fifth Highway Project to adequately maintain the entire
network.    This  requirement  was  not  met  due  to  a  misallocation  of
resources. Moreovrer, the disbursement of these funds has often been late
and untimely, thereby interrupting and delaying the works.   To solve the
dual problem of over-investment in new construction and under-financing of
maintenance, the Government will (a) by September 30 of each year during
project implementation exchange views with the Association on investments
for highway improvements and construction and (b) set up a mechanism to
ensure adequate, timely and easily accessible funds for road maintenance
and  rehabilitation.    As  a means  to implement  (b) above and until  a
road fund can can be established, the Government will make FMG 5 billion
(US$13.3 million equivalent) available to MTP in 1984 for road maintenance
operations, and by January 31, 1984 will open a revolving fund in its
Treasury, with an initial deposit of FMG 600 mil]Lion to be replenished
quarterly,  which will  be  used  exclusively  for  road  maintenance.    By
December 31, 1984 the Government will establish a Road Fund in the Central
Bank. The nationa,l petroleum company, SOLIMA, will deposit monthly and in
approximately equal installments revenues from taxes and duties on motor
fuel into this account. The Government will ensure that for 1985 and 1986
a mininium of FMG 5 billion is deposited into the Road Fund, adjusted
annually to take into account domestic inflation and the volume of
maintenance operations. By January 1, 1985 the Government will establish a
new revolving fund under the same conditions as the previous one except
that this revolving fund will be in the Central Bank and will be
replenished from the Road Fund.   In order that  provision be made for
financing road maintenance after project implementatLon, the Government and
the Association will exchange views by December 31, 1986 on the estimated
funds  required  for  road maintenance  for  the  next  three  years.    The
Government will take the measures necessary to ensure that such funds will
be available to MTP as and when they are needed.
2.26      Revenues from road user charges are estimaled to have been FMG 23
billion (US$61.3 million) in 1981.  This exceeds what was spent on roads
for both construction and maintenance and is far above what normally should
have been allocated for road maintenance.   Import duties and sales taxes
from transport equipment and spare parts totalled FM[G 8.4 billion (US$22.4
million) in 1981 and annual license fees, vehicle inspection fees, etc. ad-
ded another FMG 1.5 billion (US$4.0 million). Taxes on gasoline and diesel
fuel (US$0.63 per gallon and US$0.36 per gallon, respectively) produced
revenues of about FMG 13.9 billion (US$37.1 million) in 1981, or approxi-
mately 60% of all road user revenues.   The general level of road user



- 23 -
charges is adequate, even when adding to the road maintenance needs, the
rehabilitation of a portion of the road network. It is uncertain, however,
whether the charges paid by the users are proportional to the damage they
do to the roads (para. 2.07).
I. Engineering, Construction and Supervision
2.27      The DI is responsible for feasibility studies, final engineering
and construction supervision. It follows design and construction standards
developed by the French Ministry of Equipment but adapted to conditions in
Madagascar (Annex 4). DI is in charge of preliminary engineering for major
works and detailed engineering for medium-sized proJects. Most design and
construction supervision is carried out by foreign consulting firms   and
their aLffiliates.  The Government-owned consulting firm DINIKA was estab-
lished in 1979. Although it is staffed with young and inexperienced engi-
neers, it is participating in road construction design and supervision in
joint venture with foreign firms.  No other consulting firm in Madagascar
is capable of delivering similar services. This arrangement for the devel-
opment of DINIKA is acceptable for its participation in the proposed pro-
ject.
2.28      MTP's national soils laboratory (Laboratoire National des Travaux
Publics et du Batiment, LNTPB) conducts soils investigations for the con-
struction of civil structures, assists consulting firms and DI in the de-
sign and supervision of these works, and carries out research on the use of
local materials fc,r construction. Under the proposed project, LNTPB acti-
vities will be expanded to assist DPCH in the executLon of road maintenance
operations. LNTPBfs services are charged to clients on the basis of a cost
plus formula and its revenues are in general sufficiLent to meet its costs;
however, its revenues are remitted to the Government as LNTPB is not finan-
cially autonomous and its costs are met from general budget allocations.
This is not satisfactory since the allocations are inadequate, untimely,
and req[uire lengt'hy approval procedures.   Therefore, the Government will,
by December 31, 1983, take all actions necessary to establish LNTPB as a
separate legal entity under the responsibility of MTP to be operated on a
commercial basis with complete financial autonomy.   LNTPB's  operations
would be audited by the Government audit services.
2.29       ConstrLction works are almost exlusively carried out by foreign
contractors and their affiliates.   The Government-owned construction firm
Socigte d'Int6ret National des Travaux Publics (SINTP) has undertaken some
major construction works, but due to over-extension and mismanagement,
these works were not completed and were subcontracted to local affiliates
of foreign contractors.  The Government is negotiating a joint venture be-
tween SINTP and foreign firms in order that SINTP acquire proper construc-
tion management and budgeting techniques. This arrangement would be satis-
factory for SINTP participation in the proposed project. Although housing
construction is dominated by foreign contractors and their affiliates, two
domestic private contractors compete successfully in building construc-
tion. One of them, SARA, is building the training center (CATP) under the
Fourth Highway Project. These domestic firms will be encouraged to parti-
cipate in the construction of workshop facilities to be carried out under
the proposed project (para. 3.08) and will be allowed a   7#% preference
over the bid price of competing foreign contractors.



- 24 -
2.30       The National Tender Board (Commission Centrale des Marches, CCM)
is responsible for all procurement matters in Madagascar, and contracts are
awarded following acceptable competitive bidding procedures. Bidding docu-
ments are prepared by Government ministries and agencies and forwarded to
CCM for approval.  Later technical committees of the ministries and agen-
cies open and analyze the bids; their recommendations on the evaluated low
bidders are then submitted to CCM for study and approval.   CCM-approved
contracts are signed by managers of the various ministries and agencies be-
fore notification to the successful bidders. This process is long and cum-
bersome, generally taking 6 to 12 months but sometimes longer from bid
opening to notification. Although MTP recently shortened its internal pro-
curement procedures, much improvement is still needed in the overall sys-
tem. Ihe Government will shorten the procedures by ensuring that (i) a CCM
representative assist MTP in the preparation of bids (ii) all interested
Government officials attend CCM's decision meetings, and (iii) duly
authorized representatives from all ministries and agencies concerned
gather at one meeting during which the contract documents will be agreed
before final signature; contracts will then be approved within 15 days of
this meeting.



- 25 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The proposed project will continue and expand efforts to improve
the condition of the road network started under the Fourth and Fifth High-
way Projects. Its principal objectives are to (i) permit efficient and re-
liable transportaltion on the country's high priority roads by improving
their condition and arresting further deterioration thus reducing a major
constraint to economic development; (ii) continue the strengthening of the
road administration's capacity to maintain the road network and repair the
Government's equipment pool; (iii) improve transport coordination and plan-
ning; and (iv) begin rehabilitation of the countryl's commercial vehicle
fleet.
B. Project Description
3.02       As appraised, the priority road maintenance and rehabilitation
program includes the following:
(a) a three-year rehabilitation and maintenance program (1984-86)
consisting of:
(i) rehabilitation, spot improvement and maintenance of about 900
km of rural and feeder roads by contractors, including about
150 km of roads in the Highlands Rice Project are.a;
(ii) patching and resealing of about 2,500 lcm of paved roads, spot
improvement and maintenance of about 2,000 km of rural and
feeder roads (including about 150 km of roads in the High-
lands Rice Project area) and routine maintenance of the en-
tire 10,000 km economic network by force account:, requiring
provision of (1) equipment, spare parts, materials and sup-
plies, and (2) workshop facilities and equipment;
(iii) the second-phase (about 400 km) of a rehabilitation program
of R.N 4 and RN 7;
(b) improvement of LNTPB;
(c) training of MTP and MTRT personnel;
(d) rehabilitation of the road transport industry through the pur-
chase of spare parts; and
(e) consulting services for: (1) supervision and management of works
under (a); (2) preinvestment studies of future paved road maintenance and
strengthening programs and of the development of about 2,000 km of rural
and feeder roads including about 1,000 km of roads in the highlands Rice
Project area; (3) improvement of MTP's management arnd organizaition and the
administration of the feeder road network; (4) imlprovement of transport
planning and coordination; and (5) technical assist:ance for training and
for improvement of LNTPB.



- 26 -
(a) Road Rehabililtation and Maintenance Program
3.03       The three-year road maintenance program (1984-86) would concen-
trate on the rehabilitation and maintenance of the 10,000 km economic road
networL (para. 2.04).   To reach a double objective  of increasing MTP's
capacit:y to effectively carry out road maintenance operations and making
the neltwork passable year round in the near term, the maintenance opera-
tions will be carried out simultaneously by force account and contractors
and the rehabilitation of RN4 and RN7 will be carried out exclusively by
contractors.
(i) Rehabilitat:Lon and Maintenance of Earth Roads by Contractor
3.04      The rehabilitation, spot improvement and maintenance of about 900
km of rural and feeder roads will be carried out by contractors and super-
vised by qualified consultants.   This will include about 150 km of roads
located within the zone of the Highlands Rice Project, which is financed by
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).  The remaining
750 km of roads, carrying between 20 and 60 vpd, are in the rice-producing
regions of AntsohiLhy and Antananarivo where their early reopening is neces-
sary  to spur production.   The roads to be maintained  or rehabilitated
(Annex 5) will be discussed by Government and the Association by June 30 of
each year during project implementation.   The roads will be selected ac-
cording to criteria detailed in para. 4.14.  Works to be carried out in-
clude (i) rehabiLitation and spot improvements, (ii) regrading and re-
gravelling, and (iii) improvement of drainage structures.   Bidding docu-
ments for the Highlands Rice Project area roads (150 km) have been prepared
by consultants Louis Berger (USA).  Bidding documents for the remaining 750
km of roads will be prepared by consultants under the Fifth Highway Pro-
ject.
(ii)) Maintenance by Force Account
3.05        DPCH will carry out (i) patching and resealing operations on
2,500 km of paved roads (Annex 17, Table 2); (ii) spot improvement, regrav-
elling, improvement of drainage structures and regrading on about 2,000 km
of rural and feeder roads including about 150 km of roads in the Highlands
Rice Project area. The roads to be included in the first year's works are
identified in Annex 6. The lists for subsequent years will be discussed by
the Government and the Association by June 30 of each year during project
implementation.   The 1,850 km of roads outside the Highlands Rice Project
area are located mainly in areas of agricultural and industrial development
and carry between 20 and 60 vpd; (iii) cantonnage or labor-intensive opera-
tions on the entire 10,000 km network consisting of clearing, regravelling
and regrading of shoulders, filling potholes, cleaning ditches and drainage
structures, and maintaining bridges.
3.06         Under the Fourth and Fifth Highway  Projects  DPCH is being
equipped to set ul? 5 brigades for earth roads (spot improvement, regravel-
ling and regrading), 6 patching and resealing brigades for routine mainte-
nance of paved roads, and 42 'cantonnage' teams (corresponding to the
subdivision of the road maintenance organization) for basic routine road
maintenance.  To carry out the proposed work program, DPGH's brigades will
be regrouped into seven multi-purpose maintenance brigades one of which



- 27 -
will be based in each of the six regions and the special division of
Tolagnaro. The brigades and teams will be under the sole authority of the
Minister of Public Works.   This set-up was agreed at negotiations.  Each
brigade will include a unit for maintenance of earth roads and another for
maintenance of paved roads; the units will share some common equipment.
The brigades and teams will have   the necessary equipment to give them
flexibility to carry out all maintenance works on earth and paved roads.
On the basis of present productivity  rates,  it iLs estimated  that  each
multi-purpose brigade will maintain about 400 km of paved roads and 100 km
of earth roads a year and each labor-based team, 250 km a year.  DPCH will
coordinate the activities of the brigades and teams.  Most of the equipment
and tools for the brigades and labor-based teams has been procured under
the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects.   The proposed project will provide
complementary equipment,  the list of which  (Annex 7) was discussed and
agreed during negotiations.
3.07       Proper maintenance of the equipment will be ensured by seven re-
gional  workshops.    Five  workshops  (Antananarivc,,  Mahajanga,  Toliara,
Fianarantsoa and Toamasina) are being improved and e!quipped under the Fifth
Highway Project; the remaining two workshops (Antseranana and Tolagnaro)
will be improved and equipped under the proposed project.  These workshops
will be run by the DMAT which will also provide all necessary spare parts,
materials, supplies, personnel and logistical support to DPCH.
(ii:L) Rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7
3.08      Under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, studies were carried
out on the 1,100 km of RN 4 and RN 7, the major road axis of the country.
Rehabilitation of 200 km (RN 4) has begun under the Fifth Highway Project.
The proposed projoect will continue these efforts by rehabilitating an addi-
tional 400 km.  Tnese works are divided into five lots for contracting pur-
poses  (Table  4.]).    Consultants  INFRAMAD  (Madagascar)  and  BCEOM-LCPC
(France) have completed detailed engineering and bidding documents are be-
ing prepared.  Bidding documents are also being prepared for the remaining
500 km, works on iwhich could readily be carried out if additional financing
were found (para. 3.32).
3.09        RN4 and RN7 were built in the 1950s as low volume roads (50 to
100 vpd); they ncw carry about 150 to 1,000 vpd, with 50% trucks on RN 4
and 25% on RN 7.  Axle loads largely exceed the present permissible single
axle lcads of 10 tons. During the past decades maintenance has been spotty
and on an emergency basis.  On most sections the pavement has deteriorated
to the extent that: reconstruction is necessary. Paveipent widths range from
4 to 6 m and some have eroded to 3.5 m; the designed paved width on the
mountainous sections is 5.5 m and some of these sections will be rebuilt to
this wLdth where economically feasible.  The rehabiLlitation works consist
of (i) improvement: of drainage structures, (ii) widening of some sections,
(iii) rebuilding of subgrades, (iv) regraveling of shoulders, and (v) con-
struction of a new base course of 15 cm to 20 cm of crushed rocks and a
double surface treatment or a 5 cm to 8 cm of asphalt concrete wearing
course. The road design is based on a realistic maximum single axle load
of 13 tons for an economic life of 15 years. It is expected that resurfac-
ing will be required after 7 to 8 years. Rehabilitation works will be car-
ried out by contractors under the supervision of consultants.



- 28 -
(b) Improvement of LNTPB
3.10       LNTPB's activities will be expanded to enable it to assist DPCH
in planning, designing and supervising road maintenance and pavement
strengthening operations.   LNTPB has been receiving support the past two
years from (a) FAC, in the form of equipment and technical assistance (one
engineer and one technician from CEBTP, France), which will continue to
December 31, 1984; and (b) United Nations Develol?ment Programme (UNDP),
which has provided an expert for exploration and identification of local
materiials for use in road works; his services will end on December 31,
1983.  The proposed project will continue and expand this support by pro-
viding supplementary equipment and qualified persoinel (para. 3.29).  The
list of equipment (Annex 8) was discussed and agreied upon during negotia-
tions.
(c) Training of MTP and MTRT Personnel
3.11      Under the proposed three-year (1984-86) training program person-
nel will be trained to carry out effective transport coordination and man-
agement, and proper and timely road maintenance operations.   About 730
existinlg employees of MTP will be retrained, including 40 engineers, 180
technicians, 180 equipment operators, 270 mechanics' and 60 accounting and
administrative personnel. Another 185 new employees will be recruited and
trained, including 30 engineers, 75 technicians, 18 soils laboratory tech-
nicians and 62 storekeepers.   The project will also provide training for
about 1i0 transport professionals and technicians of MTRT.
3.12       CATP will run the training program which has been prepared by
consultants Louis Berger; it will also manage the Antananarivo multipurpose
brigade for both field training and maintenance of roads in the region.
The program will combine classroom and field training with greater emphasis
on the latter.   A competent Malagasy professional, assisted by technical
experts, will head CATP.  The Fourth Highway Project provided for the re-
construction of CATP, including equipment and technical assistance;  the
proposed project will provide additional equipment and experts (para. 3.28)
to implement the training program.
3.13      The expesrts will help select trainees and will conduct classroom
and field instruction. Field training will be carried out in CATP's bri-
gade, other regional brigades and on construction s:ites.  MTP will recruit
new engineers from EESP who will be chosen during the last year of their
formal training.   They will follow a combination of classes at EESP and
specialized courses at CATP.  During their training period, trainees will
receivE, daily allowances in addition to their salaries as an incentive to
prospec:tive  trainees  and  a  means  to  attract  personnel  from  outside
Antanararivo.   Successful trainees needing additional instruction will be
granted fellowships for short courses abroad or organized in the country.
Malagasy instructors, counterparts to the experts, will receive on-the-job
trainirng in CATP and additional training abroad.  The proposed program is
designed to be the most cost-effective means of providing transport manage-
ment, road construction and maintenance skills to MITRT and MTP personnel.
The training program will be reviewed every year by the Government and the
Bank.



- 29 -
(d) RehabilitaLtion of Road Transport Industry
3.14       In order to help rehabilitate the commercial vehicle fleet and
strengthen private truckers, the proposed project will include a pilot
scheme to provide US$5 million in foreign exchange to meet the private
truckers' emergency need for spare parts, that is, the backlog of mainte-
nance accumulated during the last two years.  At the same time the Govern-
ment will allocate at least US$15.0 million annually in foreign exchange to
meet t:he normal, recurrent spare parts needs of the commercial vehicle
fleet during, project implementation (para 2.10) to re-establish a normal
flow of spare parts.
3.15       The foreign exchange from this component of the credit will be
channelled through the Bankin' Ny Indostria (BNI), Madagascar's industrial
bank and any other bank acceptable to the Association, as a "managed fund"
under subsidiary agreement(s) between the Government and BNI. The signing
of subsidiary agreement(s), acceptable to the Association, will be a
condition of disbursement of credit funds under this component of the
proposed project. BNI, which will implement the pilot scheme, has a compe-
tent staff and is already familiar with the Association's procedures
through an ongoing DFC operation (Credit 977-MAG).  Any other bank desig-
nated by the Government for this purpose will be required to need the same
criteriLa as BNI.
3.16        BNI will allocate foreign exchange to certified motor vehicle
dealers on the basis of their share of the market as determined by their
turnover during the previous five years and the composition of the truck
fleet they service.   The credit funds will be divided into tranches of
US$250,000; in order to qualify for a tranche, dealers will be required to
draw up a detailed import plan specifying the type and quantity of goods to
be ordered, their CIF cost and additional costs expected in Madagascar
(taxes, transport and dealer's commission), the delivery schedules, a
justif:ication of the emergency nature of spare parts ordered and of the
regional distribution based on a description of the trucking fleet and
operat:ions of their clients, and a guarantee to sell the imported items
only to private truckers, i.e., those with at least 51% of pr:Lvate capital
as shown in the "Registre du Commerce". Each import: plan will be submitted
to IDA for approval prior to implementation.  The dealers would place the
order, provide BNI with the documentation, and BNI, through Government,
would submit the application with supporting documents to IDA for direct
payment to the foreign suppliers on the basis of t:he approved letters of
credit by BNI.   The initial allocation of the credit among t:he certified
dealers will be reviewed after one year in relation to the rate of
disbursements.
3.17       The use of certified dealers has the advantage of simplification
and control over the utilization of the credit. There are about six certi--
fied motor vehicle dealers in Madagascar, specializing in the distribution
and service of specific brands of vehicles.   These major dealers have
modern inventory control procedures and client monitoring systems, the ne-
cessary warehouse and service facilities, and a relatively extensive dis-
tribution system throughout the country.   The lack of spare parts in the
last few years has already forced the dealers to set: up priorilties and con-
trol orders placed by their clients;  thus, the procedure outlined above
should be easily implemented.



- 30 -
3.18       The dealers will sell the spare parts to private truckers at the
official retail prices (controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Trade) as
under a normal import license.  At present there are two markets for spare
parts as a result of the shortage over the last two years --one market at
the official price and the other reflecting the parallel market price which
is higher.   The parallel market will not affect the pilot scheme as the
dealers will deliver spare parts directly to the dlesignated truck owners.
In addition, since the pilot scheme and a minimutm import quota of spare
parts for the private road transport sector will meet emergency needs and
re-establish a normal flow of spare parts into the country, the importance
of the parallel rmarket should diminish.
3.19       Full advance payment in local currency will be required from the
dealers at the time of ordering. BNI will retain an administrative fee of
3.5% and deposit the balance in a special account which will be used to pay
for local costs of the project. For this purpose, the Government will open
an account at the Central Bank in the name of the Treasury for the benefit
of MTP.  The dealers may independently apply to BNI for a working capital
loan to purchase specified items, if their cash flows are insufficient.
BNI will be responsible for reviewing and approving the dealers' requests;
ensuring  that  adequate  procurement  procedures  have  been  followed;
maintaining an overall inventory record of the parts procured under the
project; and for monitoring the sales by the dealers and the use of spare
parts by the truckers through regular spot checks.  These procedures have
been agreed with the Government and are detailed in Schedule 4 of the
Credit Agreement.
3.20      Prior to implementation of this component, BNI and the Government
will transmit to the Association: (i) subsidiary agreement between the
Government and BINI making BNI responsible for implementing this component,
setting BNI's comamission, and ensuring that the local currency payments of
the dealers will be deposited in a special account to finance local costs
of the project; (ii) the list of the dealers and the proposed initial
allocation of the credit among them with supporting justification; and
(iii) agreement between BNI and the dealers setting up the procedures
outlined above (para. 3.16), and including an overall estimate and
justification by the dealers of the utilization of the credit allocated to
them on the full US$10.0 million.
(e) Consulting Services
(1) Spervision and management of works.
3.21      In view of the staff constraints at MTP, consultants will super-
vise rehabilitation works on RN 4 and RN 7 and will lead MTP teams in the
supervision of spot improvement and maintenance works carried out by con-
tractors on 900 km of rural and feeder roads. In addition construction ex-
perts will be prcvided to manage the seven multi-purpose brigades. The ex-
perts will be engaged under a management contract between MTP and qualified
contractors.



- 31 -
(2) Preinvestment studies of future paved road maintenance and
strengthening program and of development of the feeder roa
network.
3.22      A major aim of the proposed project is to increase MTP's capacity
to monitor the condition of the 4,300 km of paved roads in the economic
network and to plan and carry out systematic maintenance and strengthening
operations to prevent premature reconstruction.   The project, therefore,
includes a study to develop a systematic approach to maintenance and
strengthening of these roads, of which about 2,200 km now need strengthen-
ing and 1,500 km resurfacing.  The proposed study will be carried out in
three phases: (i) the first phase will include a general survey and inven-
tory of the netwTork, systematic pavement testing program on about 2,500 km
of roads which are more than five years old and not undergoing rehabilita-
tion, and a study of appropriate road maintenance operations and tech-
niques; (ii) the second phase, design of seasonal routine road maintenance
programs and establishment of a resurfacing program; and (iii) the third,
pre-investment studies, detailed engineering and bidding documents for
pavement strengthening of roads that can no longer be maintained by routine
maintenance and resurfacing programs.  At the end of the first and second
phases, the Government will seek the Association's comments and approval
before going on to the next phase; during review oE the second phase, roads
will be selected for pre-investment studies, detailed engineering and bid-
ding documents uinder the third phase. The study's terms of reference (An-
nex 9) were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
3.23         To address the long-term improvement and maintenance needs of
feeder roads, the project will include a study for the development of ap-
proximately 2,00 km of feeder roads. About 1,000 km of roads in the High-
lands Rice Project area and another 1,000 km will be selected from priority
agricultural regions. The study will review the condition of the roads and
classify them inIto three groups: (i) roads needing no improvement but only
routine maintenance;  (ii) roads requiring emergency repairs or spot im-
provements; and (iii) roads needing major rehabilitation works before mean-
ingful maintenance can be undertaken. The capacity of small contractors in
the road zones vill also be assessed and recommendations for strengthening
the local construction industry proposed. Terms of referencefor the study
(Annex 10) were discussed and agreed with the Gcvernment during negotia-
tions.
(3) Imtprovement of MTP's management and organization.
3.24      MTP is seriously handicapped by a shortage of qualified, experi-
enced personnel at management level. While training will be provided under
the proposed project, current and planned operations need effective manage-
ment. The Government has requested and the Association has agreed that the
proposed project: provide for two experts to serve as line managers in MTP
for three years.  One would act as Director General of Works and the other
as Director of Road Maintenance.   Outline terms of reference of these ex-
perts are given in Annex 11.
3.25        The organization of MTP has also impeded efficient operations
(para. 2.15). In April 1982, the Government reorganized MTP to improve its
efficiency. The proposed project will finance a study to assess and recomi-



- 32 -
mend additional changes needed to (i) carry out efficient road construction
and imaintenance operations and (ii) set up an organization to improve and
maintain rural and feeder roads.  The terms of reference of the study (An-
nex 12) were discussed and agreed upon at negotiations.
(4) Transport planning and coordination.
3.26      Sector management and coordination need improvement.  Most urgent
are a critical analysis of the nature and scope of Government operations in
the sector; a reordering of the organization, objectives and activities of
the agencies participating in the sector with the purpose of streamlining
operations; and the establishment of adequate sectoral management and effi-
cient coordinating mechanisms.  Moreover, a national transport strategy is
needed on which to base development of the transport  sector beyond the
medium-term (1983-85) plan.  The formulation of a program to achieve these
objectives should be the function of the planning unit in MTRT's Director-
ate of Transport.   However, this unit, is understaffed and has a subordi-
nate role. Further, the MTRT's Directorate of Supplies has a similar unit,
responsible for, inter alia, the analysis and revision of transport tariffs
and other transport-related activities. Coordinat:ion between the two units
and MTRT's two Directorates is very poor.  Better coordination within MTRT
and with the rest of the transport sector is essential.
3.27       As a basis for proper planning in the road transport and water
transport subsectors, FAC has undertaken studies in both areas (para.
1.20).   Further  studies  to complete a national  transport  strategy  are
necessary as well as the upgrading and restructuring of MTRT's planning
system. Accordingly, under the joint auspices of the Association and FAC,
the proposed project will include (a) the establishment by December 31,
1983 by December 31, 1983 of a high-level transport planning unit which
would report directly to the MTRT's minister and/or permanent secretary;
(b) the strengthening of the new unit by providing two transport experts
(about 48 man-months), one of whom could be seconded by IDA, the training
of the new unit's staff through courses at CAT]? (para. 3.11) and, when
necessary, through fellowships for specialized studies abroad; and (c) the
financing of additional modal studies  to complete a national  transport
plan.  Outline terms of reference for the IDA technical assistance (Annex
13) and for the national transport plan (Annex 14) were discussed and
agreed upon at negotiations.
(5) Technical Assistance
3.28        MTP will need technical assistance services to carry out the
training program and to plan and monitor road maiAtenance operations. The
technical assistance team, which will operate under the direction of CATP,
will include th.ree labor-intensive experts (one ior 4 years and 2 for 2.5
years) and five road maintenance and mechanical experts for 2.5 years.  The
experts will assist in (i) developing appropriate curricula, (ii) selecting
trainees and conducting classroom and field instruction, (iii) selecting
appropriate institutions and trainees for short-term fellowships for study
abroad, (iv) monitoring the progress of the trainees and helping to inte-
grate them into MTP or other Government services, (vi) planning and moni-
toring road maintenance operations, (vii) integrating training operations
into the norma]. activities of the brigades and iteams, (viii) introducing
cost--accounting procedures in DPCH and DMAT operations, (ix) establishing



- 33 -
unit costs of these operations, and (x) organizing and supervising equip-
ment repair in the workshops and in the field.  The terms of reference of
the technical assistance team are given in Annex 11, they have been agreed
upon during negotiations.
3.29      The project will also extend the technical assistance being pro-
vided to LNTPB by FAC and UNDP. The technical assistance team will include
one soils engineer for exploration and identification of local materials
for use in road works for three years starting January 1, 1984, and two
soils engineers for two and a half years starting July, 1984 to assist
LNTPB in strengthening and expanding its operations.   The terms of refer-
ence for the experts are given in Annex 15, they have been agreed upon
during negotiations.
C. Project Cost and Financing
3.30       The total program cost, net of taxes, is estimated at US$111.0
million equiva:Lent, with local costs of about US$31.0 million equivalent
(28%)  and  foreign  costs  of about  US$80.0  million  (72%).    Taxes  are
estimated at US$15.0 million.  Base costs are at May 1983 prices; physical
contingencies of about 10% and price contingencies of about 20% have been
added to all components except the road transport industry pilot scheme and
labor.   Price contingencies are based on recent estimates of inflation
rates as follows: 8.0% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0%
thereafter. The same percentage for local and foreign costs has been used
under the assumption that the differential inflation of Madagascar will be
compensated by exchange rate adjustments.   Program costs net of taxes are
shown below:



- 34 -
Program Cost Estimates
(US$ Million, excluding ta:Kes)
Foreign as
Local         Foreign        Total        % of Total
A.  Rehabilitation, and                22.12          45.22         67.34             67
Ma:Lntenance Program                 =
1)  Maintenance by
Contractor (900 km)            3.92           9.15          13.07            70
2)  Maintenance by
Force account                  7.04          10.03         17.07             59
a.  Equipment and spare
parts                          0.43           3.84           4.27            90
b.  Materials and supplies          1.39           3.25          4.64            70
c.  Workshops
and equipm!ent                 0.92           2.14          3.06             70
d.  Office and tele-
communication equip.           0.02           0.13          0.20             90
e.  Bridges                        0.15            0.62          0.77            80
f.  Labor for rehabilitation       4.13            -             4.13             0
works
3)  Rehabilitation of RN 4
and RN7 (400 km)              11.16          26.04         37.20             70
B.  LN1'PB Equipment                    0.09           0.8:3         0.92            90
;==                    
C. TrEaining                            0.12           0.85          0.97             87
1)  Equipment                      0.07           0.64           0.71            90
2)  Fellowships                    0.05            0.21          0.26            80
D.  Road Transport Industry             1.50          10.00         11.50             90
E.  Consulting Services                 1.16           6.86          8.02             86
1. Supervision and management
of A(i) + (2)                   0.17           0.6,7          0.84            80
2. Supervision of A(3)             0.37            1.49          1.86            80
3. Preinvestment studies           0.17            0.70          0.87            80
4. MTP management                  0.07            0.59          0.66            90
5. MTP study                       0.01            0.09          0.10            90
6. Transport planning              0.04            0.40          0.44            90
7. TA for training                 0.24            2.13          2.37            90
8. TA for LNTPB                    0.09            0.79          0.88            90
Base Cost                              24.99          63.76         88.75             72
PhysicEal Contingencies                 1.95           5.42          7.37             74
Price Contingencies                     3.87          10.75         14.62             74
Total Cost                             30.81          79.93        110.74             72
_                  _= =
(31.00)        (80.00)      (111.00)



- 35 -
3.31          lhe cost of rehabilitation and strengthening averages about
US$14,500/km for earth roads and US$93,000/km for paved roads; the cost of
supervision for rehabilitation works amounts to about 5% of construction
costs.  These costs are in line with those of similar recent and ongoing
works in the country.  Costs of equipment, spare parts, materials and sup-
plies are based on recent bid prices and quotations in Madagascar.   The
man-month cost of consultants' services and technical assistance, estimated
at US$9,200, includes US$6,700 for salaries and overhead (home office ex-
penses, expatriate allowance, social costs andl other expenditures) and
US$2,500 for reimbursable expenses (travel, telecommunications, subsistence
and other miscellaneous items); these costs are in line with those for si-
milar and ongoing services in Madagascar.    The costs of fellowships are
estimated at US$10,000 per student per year including tuition and fees,
housing, travel and subsistence; average daily allowances of US$4.00 per
local trainee are foreseen.
3.32      Due to Madagascarts serious budgetary constraint, the Association
and the co-lenders will finance the total foreign costs of total program
costs, or at 'Least US$80.0 million.   IDA will provide US$45.0 million, of
which US$10.0 million will be made available to truckers through BNI and
any other bank acceptable to the Association to purchase spare parts, and
US$35.0 million for financing foreign costs of the remaining components of
the project.   The proceeds of the US$10.0 million through BNI or another
bank (after repayment by the private truckers) will be made available for
financing the local costs of the project.   Other institutions have shown
interest in participating in co-financing this road maintenance and rehabi-
litation  program.       They  include  AfDF,  EDF  and  Kreditanstalt  fur
Wiederaufbau (KFW, Federal Republic of Germany) for the rehabilitation of
RN 4 and RN 7; the UK for road maintenance and bridge repair programs;
FAC/CCCE for transport planning; and IFAD for the development of the feeder
road network.
3.33       Given the urgent need for the rehabilitation of the road trans-
port industry and for the maintenance and rehabLlitation of the road net-
work and since other co-financiers (except AfDF) would not be able to pro-
vide funds for at least a year, the available funids (AfDF, US$19.2 million;
IFAD, US$1.4 million; the Association, US$45 million; and the Government)
would be used to support a project, as shown beLow, consisting of the key
elements of the above program.   This project has been designed so that as
additional financing becomes available the elements can easily be expanded.
The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$81.73
million equivalent with local costs of about US$22.16 million equivalent
(27%)  and  foreign  costs  of  about US$59.57  mLllion  (73%).    Taxes  are
estimated at US$11.6 million.



- 36 -
Project Cost Estimates
(US$ million, excluding taxes)
Foreign as
Local         Foreign         Total        % of Total
A.  Rehabilitation and                  15.53          29.79          45.32             66
Maintenance Program
1) Maintenance by
Contractor (470 km)             2.05           4.77           6.82             70
2) Maintenance by
Force account                   7.05          10.02          17.07             59
a. Equipment and spare
parts                           0.43            3.84          4.27             90
b.  Materials and supplies          1.39            3.25          4.64             70
c. Workshops
and equipnent                   0.37           0.85           1.22             70
d.  Office and tele-
communication equip.            0.02           0.18           0.20             90
e.  Bridges                         0.71            1.90          2.61             73
f.  Labor                           4.13            -             4.13              0
3) Rehabilitation of RN 4
and RN7 (280 km)                6.43          15.00          21.43             70
B.  LNTPB Equipment                      0.09           0.83           0.92            90
C.  Training                             0.12           0.85           0.97            88
1)  Equipment                       0.07            0.64          0.71             90
2)  Fellowships                     0.05            0.21          0.26             81
D.  Road Transporit Industry             1.50          10.00          11.50            87
E.  Consulting Services                  1.13           6.75           7.88
1. Supervision and management
of A(1) + (2)                    0.17           0.67           0.84             80
2. Supervision of A(3)              0.34            1.38          1.72             80
3. Preinvestmient studies           0.17            0.70          0.87             80
4. MTP managemnent                  0.07            0.59          0.66             90
5. MTP study                        0.01            0.09          0.10             90
6. Transport lplanning              0.04            0.40          0.44             90
7. TA for traLning                  0.24            2.13          2.37             90
8. TA for LNTPB                     0.09            0.79          0.88             90
Base Cost                               18.37          48.22          66.59            72
Contingenciesl/ Physical                 1.24           3.71           4.95             75
Price                  2.55           7.64          10.19             75
Total Cost                              22.16          59.57          81.73            73
1/ Excluding labor and Road Transport Industry.



- 37 -
The financing plan is as follows:
Financing Plan
Local        Foreign         Total
----------(US$ million)--
IDA                                              45.00          45.00
IFAD                                 -             1.40          1.40
AfDF                                6.03          13.17         19.20
Government/BNI (and any            16.13 1/        -            16.13
other bank)
Total                              22.16         59.57          81.73
1/ In addition, the Government will finance any taxes it includes in
contracts under the project; total taxes are estimated at US$11.6
million
3.i4        This reduced project includes the Highlands Rice Project roads
(about 150 km for rehabilitation and 150 km for maintenance), rehabilita-
ticon of the private road transport industry which has been kept at US$10.0
million, and the rehabilitation of only 100 km cf RN 4 and 180 km of RN 7.
AfDF and the Government will finance the rehabilitation and supervision of
about 180 km of RN 7; IFAD will finance part of the foreign cost of
corLsulting services and technical assistance for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of rural and feeder roads; the Association and the Government
will finance the remaining costs of the project.
D. Implementation and Procurement
3.35      The project will be implemented by the MTP through its DGE except
for the improvement of transport planning and coordination, which will be
implemented by MTRT, and assistance to the road transport industry, which
will be implemented by BNI and any other bank acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
3.36      The expected implementation schedule for major activities of each
project component is shown on the Chart 2. This schedule will be discussed
at negotiations.  The project covers a three-year period, starting January
1984.   The rehabilitation of earth and paved roads will start in January
1984 and take approximately 36 months to complete.  Construction of work-
shop facilities will start in January 1984 and take approximately 12 months
to complete. Equipment for road maintenance, offices, telecommunications,
workshops, soLls laboratory and training, should be delivered by June 1984,
about six months after notification of contracts to the suppliers.   Pro-
curement of spare parts for truckers will begin in January 1984 and be
spread over two years.  Technical assistance for management of MTP opera-
tions, soils laboratory, transport planning will be provided for three



- 38 -
years starting January 1984.   Technical assistance for training will con-
tinue for two and a half years starting in June 1984.  The studies of fu-
ture pavemeni: maintenance and rehabilitation programs, and the development
of feeder road network should start in January 1984 and take about two
years  to complete with a review by the Government and the Bank in the
fourth quartier of 1984.  The organization study of MTP would take about
eight months, starting January 1984.  The project is expected to be com-
pleted by December 31, 1986.
3.37      Major civil works for the rehabilitation of earth and paved roads
will be carried out by contractors on the basiLs of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines after suitable pre-
qualification.   Additional minor civil works, up to an aggregate cost of
not more than US$1.0 million equivalent, may be carried out through amend-
ment of contracts already approved under the Fifth Highway Project by the
Association.   Construction of workshop facilities, which are at two sites
at the extreme ends of the country and estimated at US$2.5 million (includ-
ing contingencies), will be carried out by contractors on the basis of
local compet:itive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Associa-
tion. Qualii-ied domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a pre-
ferential margin of 7+% over the bid price of competing foreign con-
tractors.
3.38        Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies will be grouped
into suitable lots and procured through ICB. Miscellaneous items of equip-
ment, spare parts, materials and supplies  in lots of less than US$50,000
and totalling no more than US$500,000 may be procured from dealers on the
basis of quotations obtained locally.
3.39        Consultants for supervision,  technical assistance and studies
will be selected following 1981 Bank Group guidelines; their terms of re-
ference and conditions of employment were discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations.. Before awarding the fellowships, the Government will furnish
to the Association for its approval, a detailed program for training.  The
program would include the qualifications of the candidates, type and cost
of training as well as the training institutions and an indication of
assignments to be given to the trainees on their return to Madagascar.
3.40          The US$10 million line of credit for the pilot scheme will
finance the foreign exchange cost of spare parts to be purchased by certi-
fied motor vehicle dealers on the basis of approved letters of credit by
BNI and any other bank acceptable to the Association.   The  spare parts
would be grouped in lots of at least US$250,000 and purchased from foreign
suppliers   in  accordance   with   established   commercial   practices   in
Madagascar.  Direct purchase will be required for proprietary spare parts;
all other items (tires and routine maintenance items) would be procured on
the basis of limited international tendering, requiring price quotations
from  not  less  than  three  suppliers.    BNI  would  be  responsible  for
monitoring the outlined procurement procedures; specific orders of spare
parts and price quotations would be analyzed by BNI in relation to the
findings of the recent MTRT study on Madagascar's trucking fleet to ensure
that the orders placed meet priority needs and are reasonably priced.  All
disbursement requests will be fully documented.



- 39 -
E. Disbursement
3.41       The proposed IDA Credit of US$45 million would be disbursed on
the following basis:
a)          civil  works   for   the   rehabiLitation  of  paved   roads,
maintenance of earth roads and construction of workshop
facilities:
(i) 100%   of   foreign   expenditure   under   contracts   payable
exclusively or partially in curriencies other than FMG;
(ii) 70% of total expenditure under contracts payable exclusively
in FMG;
b)          100% of foreign expenditure for consultants services, techni-
cal assistance and fellowships;
c)          100% of the  foreign  cost  of d:irectly  imported  equipment,
spare parts, material and supplies, or 70% of the cost if
purchased locally; and
d)          100% of the foreign cost of directly imported spare parts for
the private road transport industry.
All disbursements will be fully documented.
3.42        The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown below.   It is
based on the project implementation schedule and the disbursement profile
of past highway projects in the country, but modified to take into account
the quick disbursement during the first two years of the project of the
US$10.0 million for spare parts for the road transport industry.  It also
allows for a year's delay from the end of the physical execution of the
project and the last payment to allow for delays in issuing price indices
governing price variations in contracts.



- 40 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Bank Group Fiscal Year            Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter ending                at: end of Quarter
1984
March 31, 1984                             1,000
June 30, 1984                             3,500
1985
Sept. 30, 1984                            7,500
December 31, 1984                         10,500
March 31, 1985                            14,000
June 30, 1985                             17,500
1986
Sept. 30, 1985                           21,500
December 31, 1985                        25,000
March 31, 1986                            27,500
June 30, 1986                            30,500
1987
Sept. 30, 1986                           34,000
December 31, 1986                        37,500
March 31, 1987                           40,500
June 30, 1987                            44,000
1988
Sept. 30, 1987                           44,500
December 31, 1987                        45,000
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
F. Accounting, Auditing and Reporrting Requirements
3.43      Project accounts will be maintained lby MTP with separate accounts
for each coumponent and will be available for inspection by the Association
during project supervision.  Project accounts will be audited annually by
the Auditing Department in the Ministry of F:Lnance.  This arrangement is
acceptable to the Association.   If the Auditing Department is unable to
perform this task due to excessive workload, it will be carried out by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Association. The auditor's report to-
gether with the project accounts will be submitted to the Association not
later than Six months after the end of each fiscal year.   The foregoing
was agreed upon at negotiations.



- 41 -
3.44      During negotiations, the Government and the Association agreed on
progress reporting requirements (Annex 15) and submission of a project com-
pletion report, in a form satisfactory to the Association, not later than
six months of the closing date of the credit.
3.45      BNI and any other bank acceptable to the Association would be re-
quired to submit quarterly reports which would include the number of appli-
cations for loans received, those pending and those aproved, the status of
disbursements, and a statement of arrears and notes on borrowers encounter-
ing operational and financial difficulties.   The bank would also be re-
quired to submit annual audit reports, prepared by qualified auditors, in
addition to the bank's annual report.
G. Envirormental Aspects
3.46      None of the project's components will harm the environment.  Im-
provement and rehabilitation works will follow the existing alignment and
will have little or no effect on current land use. In fact, improvement to
culverts and drainage structures will benefit adjacent areas, and the reha-
lbilitation and maintenance operations will considerably improve road safe-
ty.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01        The deterioration of Madagascar'Es road network has reached a
stage where road transport is an impediment to economic activity especially
ithe vital agricultural sector and the developing industrial sector.   The
Government, in recognition of the importance of protecting its investment
in transport infrastructure and its limitations in manpower and financial
resources, is giving priority to the rehabilitation of an "economic net-
iwork" of 10,000 km of roads, which includes the most heavily trafficked and
the most important to the country's economy as determined by the Ministries
of Agriculture, Transport, and Industry and Commerce. The economic network
carries about 90% of the total traffic in the country. By concentrating on
a reduced network, MTP is expected to be able to focus its limited resour-
ces on those roads which will yield the greatest economic benefits to the
country.  In addition the project will provide for the rehabilitation of
about 400 km of the RN 4 and RN 7, the principal north-south axis travers-
Lng the most populous region of the country and linking the major centers
of economic activity.
4.02         The project also develops and supports specific institution
building and policy reforms as follows:
(a) further improve MTP and consolidate the institution-building
efforts and recent organizational changes introduced within
the framework of ongoing Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects;
(b) increase the administrative and technical capacity of LNTPB;



- 42 -
(c)  increase  the efficiency  of civil works  construction  and
maintenance by introducing private civil works contractors
for some of those works;
(d)  reorganize and upgrade the planning organization of the MTRT
and strengthen its staffing and operations;
(e)  improve transport planning and coordination;
(f)  continue past efforts to improve the road pricing policy, so
as to eliminate subsidies anel distortions and optimize the
allocation of resources; and
(g)  enhance overall transport sector management,  planning and
organization.
4.03      The project's impact on the modus operandi of MTP and on the man-
agement of the sector would be substantial.   It would reinforce the trend
begun with the Fourth and Fifth Highway P'rojects of concentrating the
Government''s efforts on the maintenance and rehabilitation of the country's
high priority road network, diverting it from the previous emphasis on road
construction. The direct support to improve investment planning and coor-
dination would help the Government avoid the misinvestment and duplication
of efforts that occurred in recent years and should provide a valuable tool
to improve economic management. The policy objectives would result in en-
hanced overall sector efficiency and an increase in utilization of existing
vehicles as well as a better overall allocation of resources.
4.04        Similarly, the project, through t'he direct financial assistance
to the private road transport industry, is expected to redress the balance
between the parastatals and private truckers, and to foster the efficiency
and competition of the country's road transport industry.
B. Area of Influence of the Program, Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.05          As mentioned in para. 4.01, the maintenance program covers a
10,000 km network of high priority roads located throughout the country.
This network comprises the most important roads in Madagascar, linking cen-
ters of economic activity to each other and to their agricultural hinter-
land.   Since it includes all road classif;'cations  --- trunk,  rural and
feeder roads, the benefits of improvements would accrue to the whole range
of users and communities from urban to rural.
4.06      The rehabilitation of the RN 4 and RN 7 has a direct impact on an
area of higrh economic activity and affects about one-third of the country's
population. RN 4 links the capital, Antananarivo, to Mahajanga, the second
most important port in the country. It is an alternate supply route to the
capital and also is the link to the northwestern part of the country. When
the bridges, their approaches and the drainage structures financed under
Credit 938--MAG linking Antsohihy and Ambanja are completed, it will provide
the only all-weather link to the province of Antseranara, via RN 6, which
branches off from the RN 4. RN 7, on the other hand, links the capital to
the industrial city of Antsirabe and continues south to Fianarantsoa, a re-



- 43 -
gional center and hub of an important agricultural region.   The project
will rehabilitate about 400 km of the most critically deteriorated sections
of the 1,100 km road (Table 4.1), of which about 200 km are being rehabili-
tated under the ongoing Fifth Highway Project.   Both of these roads were
built more than 30 years ago and have received little or no maintenance
over the last 15 years.
4.07            The provision of foreign exchange for for the purchase of
spare parts for private operators of commerc:Lal vehicles is a pilot project
and is expected to be supplemented by further assistance for the entire
vehicle fleet by FAC.   This component is expected to directly benefit
producers, consumers and the entire economy since the current foreign
exchange crisis has caused a curtailment in the importation of spare parts,
thus severely reducing transport capacity.
4.08       The main benefit of the project will be its impact on reducing
vehicle operating costs (VOC), which are given in Annex 17, Table 1.  Im-
proved road maintenance will also allow better access to productive areas,
provide cheaper and more reliable transport:, arrest the deterioration of
roads and improve the MTP's maintenance capacity.  Important benefits not
quantified in the economic evaluation include reduced freight damage, acci-
dents and travel time and better access to social and medical services.
The provision of year-round access to areas where transport was previously
restricted will encourage increases in agricuiltural production since trans-
port will no longer be a bottleneck.  Except for the technical assistance
and training and improvement of the LNTPB, for which no separate rate of
return has been calculated, all other project components have been subject
to economic analysis. The technical assistance and training component are
nevertheless considered indispensible elements of project implementation
and the strengthening of the MTP and MTRT.
4.09      The benefits identified above will accrue to owners and operators
of commercial vehicles in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs.
While, in principle, freight tariffs are regulated by the Government, they
are in practice set by competition (para. 2.11) and it is expected that
producers and consumers alike would benefit from the resulting reduced
transport costs. Owners and operators of pr:ivate vehicles would also bene-
fit from these reduced VOC's.  Because of the rapid deterioration of vehi-
cles and the network, improvement of maintenance will prolong the lives of
both the vehicles and the roads which should result in savings, mostly in
foreign exchange, to Government.
C. Economic Analysis
4.10      Except for the technical assistance and training and improvement
to the L]qTPB, all other components of the proposed project have been
individually analyzed to assess their benefits.   These include:  (1) the
road maintenance program, (2) the rehabilitation of sections of RN 4 and RN
7, and (3) the provision of financial assistance to private commercial
truckers to purchase spare parts.  Economic costs 2/ are based on detailed
engineering for the rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7; for the maintenance
program the costs are based on similar ongoing works in the country.
2/   End 1982 prices.



- 44 -
4.11       The basis for the economic analysis of the project is an assess-
ment of costs and expected benefits with and without the proposed works.
In the "without" project case it is assumed that the road would continue to
deteriorate and that VOC's would increase by 10% p.a.  In fact, this is a
conservative assumption since the continued lack of maintenance would ren-
der most roads impassable in a few years. Only savings in vehicle operat-
ing costs are quantified for the analysis. Benefits not quantified such as
savings in delays of future reconstruction as a result of the maintenance
program, increased value added in agricultural production, time savings and
reduced freight damage represent substantial benefits which, if quantified,
would enhance the rates of return. The economic evaluation results, there-
fore, underestimate the expected rates of return.
4.12      The VOC savings for analysis of all project components are based
on the different road conditions in Madagascar and on the vehicle composi-
tion and traffic growth as established by the MTP and consultants who pre-
pared the maintenance program.
Rehabilitation of RN 4 and RN 7
4.13      The road sections to be rehabilitated were analyzed according to
their level of deterioration and traffic levels. The required improvements
range from pavement strengthening to complete reconstruction. The RN 4 in
particular requires major rehabilitation on most sections.   For the RN 7
where traffic levels are the highest in the country, the improvement works
will conslist of resurfacing and reconstruction which will yield substantial
savings in VOC's. The economic analysis of this project component is based
on (1) a 15-year economic life of the investment; (2) annual maintenance
costs per km of US$2,000 throughout the life of the investment; (3) a 50%
residual value at the end of the period; and (4) traffic volumes ranging
from 150 vpd to more than 1,000 vpd in 1981 and having a proportion of hea-
vy vehicles ranging from 15% to 60%.  The analysis also assumes a growth
rate of 5% annually throughout the period of which 1.5% is considered as
representing one half of the benefits of generated traffic which will ac-
crue as a result of the proposed investments.  Based on these assumptions,
the various sections of RN 4 and RN 7 have an economic rate of return rang-
ing from 13% to 157%, with the weighted average being 49%.   Individual
rates of return for RN 4 and RN 7 are given below.



- 45 -
Table 4.1: Rehabilitationl of Paved loads
RN 4
Sensivity
PK             Cost i/ERR    T Z/  C + 10%          B - 10%  C + 10% + B -10%
10-38           2.5      31    29       28            26             25
38-160*        13.0      23    22       21            21             19
160-350        13.75    32    31        30            29             27
350-436*        8.25    39    37         36           35             32
436-559.5      15.0      35    34        33           32             30
559.5-567.4    0.8       15    14        14           14             12
Overall                  32    30        29           29             26
Total km 557.4
1/ US$ million.
2/ Using an annual traffic growth rate of 3.5% instead of 5%.
* Sections included in the project.
RN 7
Sensitivity
PK 1/         Cost 2/   ERR       T 3/  C + 1l%    B - 10% C + 10% + B -10%
6-31           1.8        41      40       38          37            34
31-111*        7.5       157    155       143         142           129
111-164.5*    3.7         51      50       47          46            42
202-262*       4.0        48      46       43          43            39
262-404       11.0        41      40       38          37            34
418-508        4.0        13      11       11          11            9
Overall                   67      65       61          61            55
Total km 502
T7-351.5 km of sections excluded as follows: 19.5 km of urban roads and 32
km not in need of any rehabilitation.
2/ US$ mLllion.
3/ Using an annual traffic growth rate of 3.5% instead of 5%.
7 Sections included in the project.



- 46 -
Road Maintenance Program
4.14       The economic analysis for this program has been done for paved
and earth (rural and feeder) roads separately. On paved roads, maintenance
activities will consist of patching and resealing at an incremental cost of
US$2,500 per km with routine maintenance costs of US$250 per km per year.
Traffic on these roads ranges from 25 to 600 vpd and is assumed to grow at
3.5% p.a.  Only direct benefits in the form of VOC savings have been quan-
tified. For the paved road component, the overall ERR is 179%, with indi-
vidual rates of return ranging from 27% to 356% (Annex 17, Table 2).
4.15        For the rural and feeder roads, the proposed works consist of
spot imaprovements, regravelling and improvement of drainage structures.
About 2,900 km of roads will be maintained under this component. About 900
km of these roads have been selected as the highest priority sections in
light of ongoing agricultural development projects, combined with a geogra-
phically reasonable distribution, to be executed during the first year of
the proposed project. These roads are located in agriculturally productive
areas with traffic varying from 20 to 60 vpd.   The economic analysis of
these roads assumes a worst case scenario in which a maximum likely cost of
US$14,500 per km is used combined with the minimum traffic level of 20 vpd
as registered on these roads.  The VOC savings used are those which would
result from the difference between poor earth and good earth roads as shown
in Annex 17, Table 1.  A threshold analysis at that level with a traffic
growth rate of 3.5% p.a., a five year economic life and annual routine
maintenance costs of US$250/km, has been used to evaluate the works.  The
results of this analysis yields an ERR of 16%.  For the remaining 2,000 km
of the rural and feeder road component, to be improved during the second
and third years of the proposed project, it is understood that they will be
selected by Government following preparation of bid documents and cost es-
timates to be established by consultants who will also be required to carry
out an economic analysis before selection. The Government shall submit to
the Association its proposals for each year not lat6r than six months be-
fore the end of each fiscal year, and shall take into consideration the As-
sociations's comments, if any, on the yearly program.   This was confirmed
at negotiations (paras. 3.04 and 3.05). Only those roads exceeding an ERR
of 12% will be included in the program.
4.16      The combined return for the entire maintenance program for paved
and earth roads is 63%. The investment is therefore well-justified.
Assistance to Private Road Transporters
4.17       The project includes a US$10.0 million component to provide as-
sistance in the form of foreign exchange to private commercial road trans-
porters of freight to purchase much needed spare parts. These spare parts
would allow better utilization of the existing truck fleet.   While the
costs are easily identifiable, the benefits, although likely to be substan-
tial, are more difficult to quantify.  The principal benefit would be the
avoidance of losses to the economy caused by the reduced transport capaci-
ty, including time saved for goods in transit, loss of perishable goods and
output foregone as a result of transport demand not being met.  These are
very difficult to quantify under the present circumstances and have not
been included in the analysis.  The current estimate of the trucking fleet



- 47 -
is 5,000 units of which about 50% are out of service because of a lack of
spare parts. Based on an average util:Lzation of 50,000 km per truck per
year, the total loss without this element of the project would amount to
about 125 million truck-km.  Assuming the total cost of spare parts at FMG
4,126 million and the cost of labor for installing them at FMG 826 million,
the total cost of this program would represent FMG 4,952 million.   If the
consunption of spare parts per truck-km is FMG 57.17 (FAC study), then the
benefit of the program amounts to 87 million truck-km per year.  This re-
presents a 70% increase in the trucking capacity available.
Overall Evaluation
4.18     The overall economic rate of return for the project is 42% for all
the quantitatively analyzed components, which amount to 87% of total pro-
ject costs.  As is usual for maintenance projects, the rate of return is
high lbecause of the relatively small investment required in relation to the
initial capital costs of construction.   Sensitivity analyses were carried
out for the rehabilitation and road maintenance components.  For the reha-
bilitation of RN 4 and RN 7 sensitivity analysis of a combined 10% increase
in costs and 10% reduction in benefits for individual sections indicate
that the ERR remains above the opportunity cost of capital for all road
sections included in the project (Table 4.1).
4.19       For the maintenance of paved roads where rates of return range
from 27% to 356%, increases in costs of 10% combined with benefit reduc-
tions of 10% yield ERRs ranging from 15% to 300%.  For the earth road com-
ponent, a combined cost increase and benefit decrease of 10% would still
yield an ERR of 12% under the most conservative assumptions.  The project
is therefore well justified.
Risks
4.20      While the project is designed to reduce as much as possible risks
associated with implementation, there is nevertheless the possibility that
implementation of the maintenance component would be hampered by lack of
funds being made available by the Government in adequate amounts and timely
manner. To overcome this problem, the Government has agreed to establish a
a financing mechanism to be used exclusively for routine and periodic road
maintenance and to ensure that adequate funds are available for this
purpose during project implementation. The other major risk concerns MTP's
capability to manage and execute force account works and the possibility of
poor quality which would reduce the economic life and thus the benefits of
the works undertaken.    The  project  includes  technical  assistance  and
contractors to carry out part of the civil works to reduce these risks to
the extent possible.



- 48 -
V. AGREEKENTS IREACHED AND
WRECMNElT~ION 
5.01      The following major items were discussed and agreed upon with the
Government during negotiations:
(a) the Government will (i) in the immediate future increase road
transport tariffs for passengers and freight by 40%, (ii) by March
31, 1984, further increase road transport tariffs taking into
account price variations between May 1983 and March 31, 1984, and
(iii) by December 31, 1984 deregulate all road transport tariffs
unless the transportation plan study provides reasons satisfactory
to the Association to do otherwise (para. 1.32);
(b) the Government will remove all restrictions on the selection of
routes and commodities carried by private transporters by December
31, 1984 (para. 1.33);
(c) the Government will ensure that all authorizations required for the
importation of goods financed under the proposed project are given
within two weeks of final approval of the related contracts and
before notification of those contracts (para. 1.44);
(d) the Government will allocate a minimum of US$15 million in foreign
exchange annually during implementation of the proposed project to
cover normal, recurrent spare parts needs of the commercial vehicle
fleet, and by December 31, 1986 the Government and the Association
will exchange views on the estimated import programs for spare
parts of transport enterprises for the next three years (para.
2.10);
(e) MTRT's new planning unit will carry out a national transport plan-
ning study, whose terms of reference will be subject to the
Association's approval, including recommendations on road user
charges and fuel prices and taxes, as well as the cost structure of
road passenger services; by December 31, 1984 the completed study
and its recommendations will be submitted to the Association; the
Government thereafter shall promptly take appropriate action re-
sulting from the study, taking into account the Association com-
ments (para. 2.12);
(f) the Government will ensure that importation of vehicles is limited
to those which meet all axle weight and dimension specifications
for road use; further, the Minister of Public Works will have-the
sole authority to approve the technical aspects of import licenses
for trucks, assembly licenses and road licenses for these trucks
(para. 2.13);
(g) the Government will prepare by December 31, 1983 an action plan for
road safety to be submitted to the Association and, taking into
account the Association's comtaents, implemented the plan no later
than June 30, 1984 (para. 2.14);



- 49 -
(h) the Government will, by September 30 of each year during project
implementation, exchange views with the Asociation on investments
for road improvements and construction (para. 2.25);
(i) the Government will make FMG 5 billion available for road
maintenance in 1984 and will set up a revolving fund in the
Treasury by January 31, 1984 with an initial deposit of FMG 600
million to be replenished quarterly (para. 2.25);
(j) the Government will, by December 31, 1984, set up a Road Fund in
its Central Bank to be used exclusively for road maintenance;
revenues for the Road Fund will be provided from revenues from
taxes and duties on motor fuel; the Government will also set up a
new revolving fund under conditions similar to the previous one,
except it will be in the Central Bank and financed from the Road
Fund; the Government will, by December 31, 1986, exchange views
with the Association on estimated funds required for road
maintenance for the next three years and will take measures to
ensure that such funds are available  to MTP as and when needed
(para. 2.25);
(k) the list of roads to be maintained by contractor and by force ac-
count during the each year of project implementation will be agreed
upon with the Association by June 30 of the preceding year (paras.
3.04 and 3.05);
(1) the regrouping of existing bridges into seven multi-purpose
maintenance brigades, one of which would be placed in each region
and the special division of Tolagnaro under the sole authority of
MTP (para. 3.06);
(m)  the lists of equipment for road maintenance and for LNTPB (paras.
3.06 and 3.10);
(n) BNI and any other bank acceptable to the Association will implement
the pilot scheme following procedures and criteria acceptable to
the Association (paras. 3.19 and 3.20);
(o)  the Government will, by December 31, 1983, open a separate account
at the Central Bank for deposit of repayments to BNI and any other
bank acceptable to the Association (para. 3.19);
(p)  the terms of reference for preinvestment studies, the study of the
organization of MTP and the national transpo~rt plan (paras. 3.22,
3.23, 3.25, and 3.27);
(q)  the Government will establish a high-level transport planning unit
within MTRT by December 31, 1983 (para. 3.27);
(r) consultants will be employed in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association
(para. 3.39);



- 50 -
(s)  the Government will furnish the Association, for its approval, the
qualifications of candidates for fellowships, the type and cost of
training, the institutions selected and the probable assignments of
the trainees upon their return (para. 3.39);
(t) accounting and auditing requirements (para. 3.43);
(u) reporting requirements including a completion report (para. 3.44);
(v) reporting requirements for BNI (para. 3.45).
5.02          A  condition  of  disbursement  of  the  credit  funds  for  the
rehabilitation of the private road transport industry component will be
that subsidiary agreements, acceptable to the Association, between the
Government and BNI and between the Government and any other bank acceptable
to the Association have been signed (para. 3.15).
5.03       A condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit is that the
Government has increased road transport tariffs for passengers and freight
by 40% (para. 1.32).
5.04       Agreement having been reached on the items listed in para 5.01,
the proposed project is suitable for a credit of SDR 41.7 million (US$45
million equivalent) under standard IDA terms.
June 1983



- 51 -
Annex 1
Table 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maritime and Coastal Shipping Traffic
('000 tons)
1977     1978       1979      1980      1981
Maritime        1,448.3  1,436.9   1,441.3   1,528.4  1,305.5
General
Cargo           787.2    866.3      894.5     951.2    747.7
Petroleum
Products        661.1    570.6      546.8     577.2    557.8
Coastal           842.9    853.9      888.1     932.0    857.9
General
Cargo           494.9    504.2      586.0     526.0    544.3
Petroleum
Products       348.0    349.7       302.1     406.0    313.6
Total           2,291.2  2,290.8   2,329.4   2,460.4  2,163.4
Source: Service de Douanes



- 52 -
Table 2
MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption and Price - 1974-82
GASOLINE                    DIESEL                      TOTAL
YEAR     CONSUMPTION       PRICE      CONSUMPTION    PRICE      CONSUMPTION
('000 m3)       (FMG)                      (FMG)       ('000 m3)
1973/74      113            56.6          176          37.7          289
1974/75      111            74.6          170          39.6          281
1975/76      107             N/A          117          N/A           224
1976/77      110            86.0          151         48.6           261
1977/78      117             N/A          151          N/A           276
1978/79      116           139.0          181         71.0           297
1979/80      111           165.0          183          85.0          294
1980/81      101           263.0          176         122.0          277
1981/82       86           323.0          155         148.0          241
Source:  Institut National de la Statistique et de la Recherche Economique
& Solima
N/A - Not available



- 53 -
Annex 2
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
1.        The First Highway Project (Credit 90-MAG, US$10 million, 1966)
provided for construction to paved standards of two sections of the
Antananarivo-Mahajanga road (145 km). The Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR, No. 1409), dated January 3, 1977, found that the cost of the road
construction was far below original estimates and the recalculated economic
rate of return (between 15% and 20%) was greater than that estimated at
appraisal (11%). Surplus funds were used to finance supplementary works
and studies, which necessitated a delay in project completion.
2.        The Second Highway Project (Credit 134-MAG/Loan 570-MAG, US$8
million, 1968) helped to finance construction of 146 km of two major trunk
roads and construction of three bridges. The project did not completely
meet its objectives, and completion was delayed by about one year due to
difficulties of the contractors who carried out the project. Actual
project cost was US$15.2 millicn in contrast to the appraisal estimate of
US$11.5 million, including contingencies. This represented an overrun of
30%, of which about half was due to price increases and half to increased
quantities. The cost overrun wras financed in large part by the Government,
but savings under the First Highway Project also contributed to financing.
PPAR No. 811, dated July 18, 1975, found that the economic justification of
one of the project roads, Ambilobe-Ambanja (91 km), was doubtful in view of
its low rate of return--8%--primarily caused by higher construction costs
than foreseen at appraisal. The ERR on the individual components of the
Second Highway Project ranged from 4% to 21% compared to the 8% to 16%
estimated at appraisal.
3.        The Third Highway Project (Credit 351-MAG/Loan 570-MAG, US$30
million, 1973) provided for construction of 417 km of primary roads, de-
tailed engineering of the Antschihy-Ambanja road and a review of the traf-
fic counting system. In 1975 the project had to be modified due to sub-
stantial cost increases as a result of price and quantity increases not
anticipated at appraisal, as well as the develuation of the US dollar. A
supplementary credit of US$5.6 million was therefore provided while con-
struction was reduced by 67 km. PPAR No. 2143, dated July 27, 1978, found
that while the overall recalculated rate of return of 14% was acceptable
and in line with appraisal estimates (or slightly below the originally
estimated 16%), two road sections had individual rates of return of 10% or
less, since expected agricultural benefits failed to materialize due to the
deteriorating political and economic situation of the country. The PPAR
outlined the project's deficiencies, including insufficient provision of
funds for road maintenance and a failure to train Malagasy nationals which
would have contributed to institution building.
4.        The Fourth Highway Project (Credit 641-MAG, US$22 million, 1976)
helped finance construction of 370 km of secondary roads between
Tsiroanomandidy and Maintirano and the 67 km of primary roads between
Arivonimamo and Analavory deleted from the Third Highway Project. A road



- 54 -
maintenance component provided for a study to evaluate maintenance needs,
including equipment and technical assistance for training local staff in
road maintenance. The project's road construction component is partially
completed but the largest section, Tsiroanomandidy-Maintirano, encountered
major difficulties due to poor management and organization of works by the
state-owned construction company (SINTP). Bridges have been completed but
earthworks and approaches have yet to be finished. The maintenance study
is complete; implementation of the recommended training program has been
delayed. Since training of local staff was essential to improving mainte-
nance operations under the Fifth Highway Project, the Government agreed to
take measures to allow an early start of training.
5.        The Fifth Highway Project (Credit 938-MAG, US$24 million, 1979;
plus a US$10 million EEC Special Action Credit) is helping finance urgently
needed resurfacing on about 200 km on RN4 between Mahajanga and Antananari-
vo, construction of bridges for the Antsohihy-Ambanja road, continuation of
improvement of maintenance operations begun under the Fourth Highway Pro-
ject, a feasibility and detailed engineering study, and training of MTP
staff by technical assistance. The project is about two years behind sche-
dule due to mismanagement and lengthy Government procurement procedures.
However, since early 1982 implementation has greatly improved with all
major components underway.
6.        Bank Group assistance has also helped finance construction of
feeder roads under agricultural and rural development projects. The
Village Livestock and Rural Dievelopment Project (Credit 506-MAG, 1974)
financed the construction of about 170 km of secondary roads in Mahajanga
province and maintenance of about 280 km of roads. The Mangoro Forestry
Project (Credit 525-MAG, 1974) provided for construction and maintenance of
56 km of gravelled service roads, 840 km of plantation truck roads and 910
km of tracks. The Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project
(Credit 332-MAG, 1972) included the improvement of 24 km of secondary rural
roads and construction of about 90 km of feeder roads. Construction of
farm roads was also included in the Lake Alaotra Irrigation Project (Credit
214-MAG, 1970). The Second Village Livestock and Rural Development Project
(Credit 1211-MAG, 1982) will help in the construction and maintenance of
about 100 km of rural access roads, continuing the work begun under the
first project.
7.        A port project (Credit 200-MAG, US$9.6 million, 1970) provided
for extension of Toamasina Port, creation of the Toamasina Port Authority,
and technical assistance for management personnel and training. In 1973
the credit was increased by US$1.8 million to cover a shortage of funds
resulting from a currency realignment. PPAR No. 2299, dated December 22,
1978, concluded that (i) the physical objectives of the project were satis-
factorily carried out; (ii) a lower, revised economic return of 7.0% was
due to lack of traffic growth resulting from adverse local and internation-
al political and economic conditions that could not have been foreseen at
the time of appraisal, and (i.ii) although the technical assistance for in-
stitution building did not achieve satisfactory results initially because



- 55 -
8.        Bank Group assistance has included two projects to aid the Reseau
National des Chemins de Fer Malgache (RNCFM). The First Railway Project
(Credit 488-MAG, US$6 million, 1974) assisted RNCFM in replacing outdated
equipment to provide a modest increase in transport capacity, improving the
railway's managerial and operational capacity, and setting up a framework
for transport planning. The project had to be reduced in scope due to cost
overruns and was completed with a three-year delay. Although a transport
planning and coordination unit was created in the Ministry of Transport, it
did not succeed in setting up a general framework for transport policies
mainly because the Government failed to integrate this team into the
decision-making process. The recalculated rate of return on the project
was less than 10%. The major problems faced by the project resulted from
deteriorating economic conditions and from general political uncertainty
regarding transport policy formulation and the overall institutional
environment. Management of the railway was, however, considered generally
efficient. No audit report is yet available on this project.
The Second Railway Project (Credit 903-MAG, US$13 million, 1979) continues
the rehabilitation efforts undertaken in the first project and provides for
replacement of outdated equipment, track renewal, and improvements in
telecommunications and workshops. It also provides for implementation of
measures to strengthen the railway's financial management. Most of the
physical elements of the project have been implemented satisfactorily;
however, in view of the deterioration in the management of the railway dn
non-compliance with a number of covenants, the credit was suspended in June
1982. It was later reinstated (December 1982) following implementation by
the Government of a complete financial program for the railway.
Reallocation of the remaining funds under the credit is presently envisaged
to help strengthen the financial and operational management of the railway.



- 56 -
Annex 3
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Sixth Highway Project
Road Transport Industry and Spare Parts Requirements
Table 1: Estimate of Madagascar's Road Transport Fleet
Total Fleet         Estimate of                  Of which
Operational Fleet     Operating ----Immobilized-------
Needing     Needing
____________   __________________     _________  repairs   rehabilitation
Light vehicles    13,420                10,720              59%      36%         5%
Utility vehicles  11,210                 9,060              61%      33%         6%
Buses                740                   560        1
]     61%      28%       11%
Heavy trucks       4,620                 3,880
Table 2: Annual Imports of New Vehicles
Annual
Average
1972-1977     1978          1979         1980      1981        1982
Light vehicles      1,550      1,035        1,390         1,220      195         275
Utility vehicles   1,200       1,135        1,470         1,095      165         160
Buses                 60          50          145           135       20           5
Heavy trucks          350        405          410           600      780         310
(of which Govern-
ment: EBRO/IFA)                 (30)         (92)         (269)    (621)       (142)



- 57 -
Annex 3
Table 3: Estimate of Recent Imports of Spare Parts:
Turnover of the Main Motor Vehicle Dealers
(FMG million)
1978         1979          1980          1981         1982
Spare parts                     2,920         2,500         4,055         1,775         925
Tires                           2,435         3,665         4,410           135       2,920
Total                   5,355         6,165         8,465         1,910        3,845
Table 4: Estimate of Emergency Spare Parts Needs
(FMG million; CIF prices)
Spare         Tires         Routine                 US$
parts                     maintenance   TOTAL  equivalent
Itemsl/             (million)
Light vehicles                   1,137           415            113       1,665     (4.5)
Utility vehicles                 1,164           659            128       1,951     (5.4)
Buses                              355           259             38         652     (1.8)
Heavy trucks                     1,207         1,532            130       2,869     (7.8)
Total                    3,863         2,865            409       7,137    (19.5)
1/  Batteries, oil and air filters; braking fluid; spark plugs
SOURCE: FAC study, Februaryt 1983



- 58 -
Annex 4
MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
Primary        Secondary
Road Network    Road Network
1.   Roads
Maximum design speed   (km/h)          80                50
Minimum radius for
horizontal curves       (m)          200 (30) 1/        70 (25)
Maximum radius for
vertical curves
crest               (m)        2,000 (1,500)    1,000 (750)
sag                 (m)        1,000 (750)          500
Maximum grade            (%)            8                12 (14)
Transversal slope
Pavement           (%)            3                  3
Shoulders          (%)            4                  3
Pavement width           (m)       5.5 to 7.0          4.50
Platform width           (m)       8.8 to 10.3         6.50 (4.00)
Maximum Permissible
Axle load               (t)          10                 10
2.   Bridges
Carriageway widt:h       (m)       3.5 and 7.0           3.0
Sidewalks                (m)     2x0.75 to 1.00        2xl.0
Design load:
in accordance with fascicule        61                   61 B
1/  Figures in parent:heses indicate values adopted in exceptional cases
for specific short sections located either in very mountainous terrain
or in other part:icularly difficult conditions.
Source: Ministry of Public Works, 1982.



- 59 -
Annex 5
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Earth Roads to be Maintained by Contractors
Road Description                                                  Length
(km)
Lot 1 - North
RN 32    Befandirana - Mandridsara                                   110*
Off RN 32  Abararata                                                  45
Off RN 32  Tsaraonenana                                               20
Off RN 32  Antsakabary                                                75
RIP 116-RN 32  Andohajango                                            35
RIP 119  Manditsara - Marotanarana                                    35
Sub-total                   320
Lot 2 - Center
RN 43  Soavinanavian - Sambaira                                      110*
RIP 91 Fenoarivo -Mahitsy                                            135
RIP 91 Feneorivo - Kiranomera                                        115
RIP 92 Miarinarivo - Soavin                                           50
RIP 108-RN 1 Mahasolo                                                 20
Sub-total                   430
* Roads to be maintained in the first year.



- 60 -
Annex 5
Road Rehabilitation Program in the Highlands Rice Project Area
Designation                Length
(km)
Ambositra-Imerin-Imady-          25
Ambalasoaray
Ambalasoaray-                    10
Ambohimandrosa
Ambatolahy-Amboniriana            5
Anjanamasy-Behena                10
Ivato-Antoetra                   24
Anjoma-Ambovombe                 19
RN34-Alakamisy-Mahaiza           19
Talata-Tritriva-Alakamisy        18
Ambohibary-Soahazo-              20
Kelivozona
SUB-TOTAL                       150



- 61 -
Annex 6
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Earth Roads to be Maintained by Force Account
Road Description                                                      Length
RN                                                                     (km)
5.   Maroantsetra - Soamiana Ivongo                                     200*
5a.  Sabamva - Antalaha                                                   90*
5a.  Sambava - Vohemar                                                    45
8.   Marofototra - Tsirihihana                                            95
10.  Andranovory - Ambovombe                                            105
11.  Manjagara - Nosy Varika                                            100
12a. Taolagnaro - Manatenina                                            120
13.  Ihosy- Ambovombe                                                   380*
27.  Ihosy - Furafangama                                                 270
44.  Ambatonarazaka - Vohitraivo                                          70
55.  Tanandara - Revoay                                                   15
Sub-total                                1,550
Selected Feeder Roads 1/                                                 300
I/ To be detailed for execution in the second and third years.
* To be maintained in the first year.



- 62 -
Annex 6
Road Maintenance in the Highlands Rice Project Area
Designation                      Length
(km)
Ambositra
Ambositra-Andina                          17
Soavina-Ambondromisotra                  10
Ambatondradama-Vinaninony                 15
Faratsiho-Andranomiady                   25
Anstrabe
Antokefoana Ambohimasina                 23
Nordtsarazaza-Ambatolampikoly            15
(passarit par lalatsara)
Fandriana Ambehibary                     20
Anovy-Mahazoacivo                        25
SUB-TOTAL              150



- 63 -
Annex 7
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Equipment for Road Maintenance
Equipment                         Quantity          Unit Price            Cost
(US$'000)          (US$'000)
Batch A (5th Highway Project)
Hand compactor                        37               14.7               543.9
4-wheel-drive vehicles                8                16.0               128.0
Miscellaneous tools                                                        194.4
866.3
Batch B (Sixth Highway Project)
Grader                                 1               81.3                81.3
Truck                                  8               20.0                160.0
Water tank truck (6000 1)              7               21.4                149.8
Service truck                         5                80.0               400.0
Pneumatic compactor                    2               60.0                120.0
Van                                    8                9.3                 74.7
Light vehicles                        15                9.3                140.0
Road patching truck (Camion PAT)    1                  58.7                 58.7
Bitumen melting furnace                1               42.7                 42.7
Mechanical shovels                     7               85.7                599.9
Miscellaneous tools                                                        387.1
2,214.20



- 64 -
Annex 8
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
List of Equipment for LNTPB
Equipment Group 1/                                             Cost
(US$'000)
1. General                                                       70
2. Soils and foundation testing                                 300
3. Material testing                                             200
4. Supervision of civil works                                   330
Total                     900
1/ Equipment will be bought in order of priority as determined by
consultants CEBTP (France).



- 65 -
Annex 9
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Study of Future Pavement Maintenance and Strengthening Programs
Outline Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.     The Malagasy Government intends to carry out a study on systematic
methodologies for maintenance, conservation and betterment of its paved
road network. The Government will need the services of experienced
consultants to carry out this study in collaboration with LNTPB, the
Government's soils laboratory.
Objectives
2.     The objectives of the study are:
(i) to review the different pavement structures' capacity to withstand
present and future traffic conditions and their adaptability to
regional, topographic, climatic and geotechnical conditions and, if
necessary, design a new set of typical cross-sections;
(ii) to design appropriate maintenance operations for the different
pavement structures;
(iii) to prepare short- and long-term programs of pavement resurfacing and
road improvement; and
(iv) to prepare economic and engineering studies for the improvement of
roads requiring reconstruction.
Scope of Consultant Services
Phase I
3.     Consultants should carry out:
(i) an inventory of the paved road network including existing conditions
of the roads (alignment, grades, pavement structure, drainage,
etc.);
(ii) an estimate of traffic based on the existing data (traffic count
including its composition, loads and projection);
(iii) an inventory of construction materials including quantities and
qualities (existing borrow pits and quarries);



- 66 -
(iv) deflection tests of the existing pavements (about 2,500 km);
(v) pavement evaluation in light of the existing conditions.
Phase II
4.     They should:
(i) review the existing pavement design and construction practices and,
if necessary, design appropriate typical sets of pavement
structures;
(ii) design appropriate maintenance operations for each type of pavement
structure and regional setting;
(iii) prepare short- and long-term programs of pavement resurfacing;
(iv) prepare a program of improvement works for roads that can no longer
be economically maintained by (ii) and (iii) above.
Phase III
5.     Following agreement between the Government and the Bank, consultants
should prepare feasibility studies, detailed engineering and bidding
documents for roads that need immediate resurfacing and/or reconstruction.
A.     Feasibility Study
6.     The objective of the feasibility study is to define the optimum
economic solution for the improvement of the identified road section. The
choice will be based on a comparison of alternatives and the optimum
solution will be based primarily on:
(i)  determination of the scope of the resurfacing and/or reconstruction
to be undertaken;
(ii) the technical characteristics to be given to the sections to be
reconstructed and/or resurfaced; and
(iii)  the cost of executing the works.
7.     The feasibility study will include:
(a) Traffic studies. Additional traffic counts and load distribution
should be carried out on the selected road sections. The following
vehic.Le types should be used: heavy trucks (greater than a 5 ton
load) and buses, light trucks, vans and land rovers, and cars. -For
each section of road studies, forecasts of traffic shall be
estabLished for each five-year period during the economic life of
the proposed investments. The forecasts should be established with
the help of origin-destination surveys of typical users of the
existing corridors.



- 67 -
(b) Study of road transport costs. For each technical solution
considered, the operating costs for each type of vehicle as well as
its evolution during the economic life of the investment will be
studied. The costs of routine and periodic maintenance will be
included, as well as the costs of resurfacing and/or
reconstruction. The interrelationship between traffic, the vehicle
operating costs, maintenance costs and the cost of reconstruction
will be considered.
(c) Technical investigations. Consultants should undertake all
pertinent topographic, soils and hydrological surveys and testing of
the performance of the existing pavement to determine new technical
characteristics of the identified road sections. All bridges and
drainage structures to be repaired or reconstructed will also be
examined and the necessary works defined. The documents necessary
for the execution of these works will be prepared, including
investigations for foundation studies and hydrological surveys for
drainage works. The consultants should also study with special
attention the materials best adapted for the construction of the
subgrade, sub-base, the base and wearing courses. They should
identify and carefully evaluate the quality and quantity of
materials of the borrow pits and rock quarries within economical
hauling distance of the road. They should also, if necessary, carry
out soils surveys and identify quarries and borrow pits for road
maintenance in the regions where these needs are identified in Phase
I.
(d) Economic comparison of the solution examined. To define the
economically most advantageous solution, a comparison will be made
to the total transport costs on the road (including all vehicle
operating costs) for the economic life of the proposed investment,
as well as the costs of investments and maintenance associated with
the different solutions considered. The comparison is to determine
the optimum technical characteristics as well as the timing of the
investment. Normal, generated and diverted (if foreseen) traffic
will be separately identified. Other benefits to be quantified are:
the economic savings due to time-savings for the transport of
high-value goods, and reduction in spoilage of perishable goods.
8.     The various solutions will be compared to a reference solution
(without case), which is defined as the continued use of the existing road,
on its preserLt alignment, without major investments and with maintenance as
required. The economic rate of return and the net present value using a
12% discount rate will be determined for each solution, as well as the
first-year return (comparison of costs to benefits for the first year after
completion). A sensitivity analysis will be performed to account for
uncertainty in any of the cost and benefit parameters entering into the
calculation. Any possible interdependence among the variables should be
considered.
9.     The costs to be taken into account are economic costs, i.e., net of
taxes and adjusted to reflect the scarcity or surplus of the resource.



- 68 -
B. Detailed Engineering and Bidding Documents
10.    This step will include the preparation of detailed engineering, cost
estimates and bidding documents for the works selected by the Government
on the basis of the feasibility studies' recommendations. It will include
the final detailed topographic surveys and geotechnical studies to
complement the work done during feasibility studies.
11.    The bidding  documents will be prepared for international
competitive bidding with prequalification of contractors, in accordance
with the Guidelines Concerning Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits. The consultants will recommend the grouping of the contract works
according to the directives of the Government and the best way to enhance
international competitive bidding.
12.    As soon as the necessary elements for the detailed definition of the
works are shown, the consultants will prepare a prequalification dossier.
It will include an invitation to apply for prequalification as well as a
brief descriptive notice on the nature of the works. The consultants will
also prepare the newspaper publicity and the circulars for informing the
embassies of Bank member countries, Taiwan and Switzerland.
13.    The bidding  documents shall include:
(a) all sections necesary for staking out the road centerline,
cross-sections and grades and for construction of sub-grades, base
course, ditches, shoulders and the pavement, as well as for all
drainage structures and bridges and the associated equipment
fitting;
(b) the general conditions of contract, especially concerning the rules
about performance bond, price adjustment, insurance to be provided
and advance payments;
(c)  the special conditions of contract, including the technical
specifications of the construction methods and materials and the
control and measurements procedures;
(d) schedule of unit prices; and
(e) the quantity estimates.
14.    Consultants should also prepare a confidential report which should
comprise the detailed cost estimate, broken down into foreign costs, local
costs and taxes. The foreign costs will include, in particular, the
following: depreciation of imported equipment, imported materials and
supplies, salaries and benefits for expatriate personnel, overheads and
profits of the contractor, as well as the main foreign exchange cost-of
goods produced in Madagascar which are used in the project.



- 69 -
Annex 10
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
Study of the Development of Feeder Roads
Introduction
1.        The purpose of the proposed study is to provide a basis for the
integrated planning of rural road improvements in the agricultural projects
areas. A second major objective is to establish criteria and methods for
road maintenance activities following such improvements. Finally, the
study will specifically consider ways and means of supporting the growth of
small contractors capable of undertaking road works in these areas.
2.        The first criterion in planning rural road improvements should be
to provide all-weather or nearly all-weather access to the maximum number
of people and the maximum amount of productive areas within the limits
imposed by aailable resources. The second criterion is to establish a
system of priorities relfecting national and local development objectives,
both economic and social in nature. A third criterion is the capacity to
program improvement works and subsequent maintenance in such a way as to
make the most effective use of available resources.
Road Network Inventory
3.        It should cover about 2,000 km, including 1,000 km located in the
area of the Highland Rice Project, financed by IFPD, and 1,000 km in
priority agricultural areas identified by local agricultural extension
staff. The inventory should include length, surface type and condition,
major structures, and general geometric characteristics (width, slope,
etc.). Each road should be described in summary fashion, at about the
level of detail given in the pre-feasibility study for this project.
Information concerning the socio-economic potential of the zone served by
each road should also be collected. These data should include, bkut need
not necessarily be limited to the following:
- population served
- collectivities served
- schools, clinics, etc. served (present and planned)
- present traffic levels (including oxcarts, bicycles and
motorcycles, and pedestrian traffic)
- agricultural area served (may be divided into rice paddies,
rain-fed crops, and pasture)
- other development resources (forest, minerals, rural industries,
tourism potential).



- 70 -
Based on this information, each road should be assigned to one of three
groups: (1) roads in good condition, requiring only regular maintenance to
remain that way; (2) roads which could be restored to an acceptable
condition through spot improvements and subsequently aintenance; and (3)
roads which will require major reconstruction before a meaninful
maintenance program can be undertaken.
Local Resource Inventory
While carrying out the road inventory, the study team should also
investigate the availability and quality of local resources for carrying
out maintenance and minor improvement works. These would include, in each
community:
- availability of labor to work at half time throughout the year on
routine road maintenance (one person per 2 km of road);
- willingness and ability of community to donate group labor for
road maintenance, three or four times a year;
- availability and capacity of skilled workers/small contractors;
- availability and location of road bulding materials (stone,
lateritic soils, wood)
- availability of local means of transport for materials;
- willingness and abilityh of community to assume supervisory and
fiscal responsibility for the routine maintenance of improved
roads.
5.        This information would also be used in developing the system for
setting priorities for future road improvements and maintenance activities.
Maintenance, Planning and Programming
6.        Bas(ed on the technical characteristics of the roads to be
reconstructed and the roads receiving spot improvements, the study will
define minimumn maintenance requirements for each improved link as well as
for roads presently in good condition. The planned maintenance activities
should be, in3ofar as possible, those capable of being carried out by
labor-intensive methods with a minimum of technical supervision, using only
hand tools andl non-motorized means of transport, and depending to the
maximum extent: possible on the use of local construction materials. The
most important routine maintenance tasks to be carried out would be:
Routine Maintenance
a) keeping drainage structures and roadside drainage free from
obstructions;
b) cutting and clearing vegetation which presents a potential
danger to traffic safety and/or the structural soundness of
the road;



- 71 -
c) repairing damage to the road surface (potholes, deformations)
and initial erosion to any part of the road;
d) minor repair to drainage structures.
Periodic Maintenance
e) resurfacingof earth or gravel roads (every 10 years);
f) resurfacing of sections paved with water-bound macadam (every
25 years).
Emergency Maintenance
g) reconstruction or major repairs to road surfaces or structures
damaged by rain or floods or for any other reason.
7.        It is envisaged that routine maintenance activities would be
carried out using the "cantonnage system, supported by occasional
community effcrts for tasks (c) and (d) above. The study should specify
the types of tools and transport to be provided and should investigate
local costs and sources of supply, including spare parts.
8.        Periodic and emergency maintenance is expected to be carried out
by small constractors, with possible support from the local subdivisions of
MTP (in the case of provincial roads) and MPARA/Genie Rural (in the case of
tertiary roads). Community contributions of funds, food, labor, materials
and/or transport may also be mobilized for item (g) under unusual
circumstances such as the recent cyclone damage.
9.        The study should provide an initial estimate of recurrent costs
for maintenance under different conditions of soil type, terrain (slope),
surface type, and traffic. These estimates can then be tested against
actual experience.
10.       Using the inventory data and priorities established above, the
study should estimate the necessary funds and local resources to rod
maintenance and spot improvement activities, according to the principle of
assuring a maximum of all-weather access throughout the area. A
reconstruction, maintenance, and spot improvement program will be drawn for
these roads. The study should be coordinated with the organization study
of MTP to find an appropriate institution(s) to carry out the development
and maintenance of feeder roads.
Support for Small Contractors
11.       The local resource inventory described above will identify a
number of skilled individuals or small enterprses capable of undertaking
minor road works or suporting activities such as stone crushing, culvert
manufactur, materials transport, too, repair, etc.
12.       The study should investigate in detail the present capacity and
constraints facing these small contractors, and should propose a program to
increase this capacity and overcome these constraints. The following



-72-
information, at a minimum should be obtained:
- level of formal education
-  ability to read contract documents and technical
specifications, including plans and drawings;
-  ability to make formal calculations;
-  years of experience in road work;
-  lBvel of technical skill;
-  nmmber of employees;
-  inventory of tools and equipment, including means of
transport;
- contacts with suppliers of raw materials, tools, spare parts,
and repair facilities;
- experience with credit (formal and informal);
-  cash flow constraints affecting ability to perform work as
required.
Based on this information, the study should present an analysis of general
problems facing small construction enterprises in these areas and recommend
an individualized program of support for contractors who appear to have the
capacity to assume increased responsibility in the future.  Such support
could include:
-  subcontracting of minor works;
- individual contracts to carry out spot improvements under the
direct supervision of the project technical assistance and
counterpart staff;
- field demonstrations of improved techniques and/or use of new
tools and materials;
- basic education, if required, to improve literacy and
numeracy;
- group or individual instruction in subjects such as work
organization and payment procedures, financial and cost
accounting, bid prparation, equipment procurement, management
and maintenance, and use of credit;
- possible establishment of a small equipment pool available to
contractors on a rental basis (light trucks, roller, small
crusher);



- 73 -
possible establishment of a revolving fund to provide short
term credit to contractors undertaking spot improvements.
Implementation
The study will be carried out in a year by an experienced
engineering firm.



- 74 -
Annex 11
MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for the Training Program and the
Management of MTP Road Operations
Outline Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.       The objectives of the technical assistance for the training
program are:
(a) installation of a permanent training center in
Antananarivo;
(b) design of appropriate courses for the specialties
required;
(c) continuation of training of transport sector personnel,
including engineers, technicians, skilled and
semi-skilled laborers;
(d) implementation of training and seminars for road sector
chiefs and other skilled personnel required for the road
maintenance brigades;
(e) management, administration and supervision of road
maintenance brigades and workshop operations;
(f) assistance to MTP and MTRT in recruiting and training
addition.al skilled staff needed for the management of
road and transport sector operations.
2.        Since MTP is seriously handicapped by the shortage of experienced
and qualified personnel especially at the managerial level, while the
training program is underway, MTP will be provided with in-line experts to
efficiently manage road construction and maintenance operations.
Composition of the Training Team
3.       The center will be headed by a Malagasy professional.  A team of
seven technical experts will be assigned to the center. Composition of the
team and the length of each expert's assignment is summarized below:
Consultants                                               Man-Months
(a)  highway engineer (chief of mission)                        30
(b)  two road maintenance and construction experts              60
(c) one mechanical engineer specializing in heavy
equipment for gasoline- and diesel-powered machinery   30
(d)  one expert in training equipment operators                 30
(e)  three labor-intensive experts                             108
TOTAL         258
Qualifications
4.       Each expert should have:
(a) fluency in spoken and written French;
(b) training experience in his field in order to facilitate
professional and technical instruction;
(c) work experience in a developing country; and



- 75 -
(d) education commensurate with the position to be
occupied.
Particular qualifications and functions of the team members are described
below:
Chief of Mission
5.       The chief of mission should be a highway engineer with experience
in operation and maintenance of road equipment. He should have at least
(a) ten years' experience in road administration, construction and
maintenance, as well as in budget matters and cost price accounting; and at
least (b) five years' experience in technical and professional training,
preferably on-the--job training. Experience in administration and financial
management of a construction firm and/or in manpower planning and personnel
management is desirable. His duties will include:
(i)  coordinating all mission activities and maintaining
liaison with MTP;
(ii)  preparing professional ability tests to be used as a
basis for recruiting personnel, and recommending the
personnel to be recruited; and
(iii)  training.
Road Maintenance and Construction Experts (2)
6.       They should be road engineers or senior road work foremen with at
least five and ten years' experience in the field respectively. In
particular they should have extensive knowledge of and experience in (a)
road maintenance and construction and maintenance of equipment; (b) use of
heavy equipment;
(c) various elements of road construction management, contract and
specifications; and (d) soils engineering. They should:
(i)   train the road engineers, construction foremen and
laborers;
(ii)   assist in training equipment inspectors and operators;
and
(iii)   provide technical, on-site training of regional road
chiefs.
Heavy Equipment Mechanic (1)
7.       He should have at least eight years' professional experience in
the use of heavy equipment for public works. His qualifications should be
as follows: (a) specialization in both diesel and gasoline engines; (b)
experience in operation and maintenance of equipment used in maintenance
work; (c) knowledge of vehicle electrical systems; and (4) basic knowledge
of general mechanics. He should:
(i) train and give refresher courses to diesel- and gasoline-
engine mechanics;



- 76 -
(ii)  train and give refresher courses to mechanics and
mechanic-helper/greasers for workshops and mechanized
roads units;
(iii)  train spare-parts storemen; and
(iv) assist in training equipment inspectors.
Expert in Training Equipment Operators
8.       This expert should have at least five years' experience in
training equipment operators. He should be familiar with the major types
of heavy equipment currently used in road construction and maintenance. He
will:
(i) train and give refresher courses to operators of various
types of road machinery; and
(ii) supervise the mechanics and greasers assigned to worksites.
Labor-intensive Experts (3)
9.        They should be highway engineers with at least five years'
experience. In particular they should have extensive knowledge of and
experience in (a) construction and maintenance of roads; (b) organization
of labor intensive execution of road construction and maintenance
operations; (c) use of tools and light equipment; and (d) soils
engineering. They should assist (i) DPCH and regional services heads in
planning and supervising "cantonnage" or routine labor-intensive operations
for road maintenance; and (ii) the chief of team in executing those
operations.
MTP Management
Composition of the Management Team
10.       A team of two in-line managers, a road organization manager and a
road maintenance manager, will be assigned to MTP for three years to assist
in the management oi- road construction and maintenance operations.
Qualifications and Functions
11.       Each expert should:  (a) be fluent in French; (b) have experience
in a developing country; and (c) have education commensurate with the
position to be filled. Specific qualifications and functions of the
different team members are described as follows:
Road Organization Manager
12.       The expert will serve a line function in MTP; he will act as
Director General of Works. He should be a highway engineer with at least
ten years' experience in the field and in management of road operations.
His duties will include:



- 77 -
(i) coordinating all activities of the Directorate General of
Works, including road construction and maintenance, workshop and
soils laboratory operations;
(ii)  planning of road operations;
(iii)  preparation and implementation of contracts and specifications;
(iv)  assistance in hiring technical assistance and personnel for road
operations; and
(v) supervision of work.
Road Maintenance Manager
13.       The expert will serve a line function in MTP; he will act as
Director-of Road Maiatenance. He should be a highway engineer with at
least ten years' experience in the field of organization and execution of
road maintenance operations. His duties will include:
(i)  planning and coordination of road maintenance operations;
(ii)  organization of brigades and teams, and choice of technicians for
the execution of road maintenance operations;
(iii)  selection of chiefs and personnel for the brigades and teams; and
(iv)  supervisioni of the execution of road maintenance operations.
Reports:
14.      Consultants should prepare:
(a)   monthly progress reports;
(b)   a yearly project review, its accomplishments,
shortcomings,, and future orientations submitted to
the Government and the Bank for their assessment; and
(c)   a draft and/final project completion report and
evaluations.



- 78 -
Annex 12
I)EMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference
Study of the Organization, Management
and Operation of the MTP
I. Objectives
1.        The MTP intends to carry out an analysis of its working
efficiency with the object of improving the overall effectiveness of its
operation and assist the communities in the improvement and maintenance of
the feeder road and track network. To this end, the MTP intends to seek
the assistance of an expert to review its present organization, personnel
and workload, and to make recommendations for optimizing its efficiency.
II. Scope of Consulting Services
A. General
2.        In order to attain the objectives detailed above the NTP proposes
to invite an expert to provide about eight man-months services for the
analysis of MTP's organization, staff, workload and management, its
sufficiency to meet the specific requirements of the MTP, both in terms of
numbers and skills, the day to day functioning of the MTP in terms of its
present responsibilities and structure, and to make recommendations for
improving the basic efficiency of the MTP in terms of organizational setup,
staff performance and iLnternal management. The expert shall perform the
services herein described. In performance of the services, the expert
shall cooperate fully with the Government which may assign counterpart
personnel to provide liaison with the MTP and other Government agencies as
necessary. The expert shall, however, be solely responsible for the
findings and recommendations contained in their reports.
B. MTP Operations/Organization
3.        In order to make a meaningful analysis of present operation of
the MTP, the expert shall review the basic structure of the MTP, its
responsibilities, internal regulations, relations with other Government
agencies and ministries, and personnel regulations under which it
operates. Within the context of this framework the expert will assess the
functional efficiency of the MTP in its day-to-day operations at all
levels. he will assess the efficiency of the operating structure and
organizational structure and note areas, setups and specific procedures
which could increase the effectiveness of the operation of the component
parts of the MTP and the MTP as a whole.
4.        All aspects of the organization and management of the MTP will be
reviewed and the expert will be expected to make recommendations for the
improvement of management policies, system organization, coordination and
implementation of works, and simplified procedures for efficient
implementation.



- 79 -
C. MTP
5.        Concurrently with the analysis of the operation and organization
of the MTP the expert will. study the staffing of the MTP and any related
personnel, in terms of skills, working efficiency and working conditions.
The expert will also review job descriptions, personnel policies (including
hiring practices). On the basis of this staff study and the review of NTP
operation and organization (see "B" above) the expert will make an analysis
of the actions required to provide the staff necessary conditions to
ultimately meet the recommended improvements in MTP operations. These
actions shall include the incentive and promotion of MTP staff.
D. Program for Improvement of MTP Operation
6.        On the basis of the study of MTP operations and organization (see
"B" above) and in the context of staffing (see "C" above) and other
constraints, the expert will develop a program to optimize efficiency of
MTP operations.
III. Timing
7.         The study is to be carried out over a period of eight months by
one organization expert . It is expected that the expert will remain in
Madagascar at least six months of the eight month period.
IV. Reports
8.        The expert shall submit the following reports in French:
(a) An inception report three months after the starting date. The
report shall include details on the expert's schedule. The
report shall give the methodology and possible solutions and
recommendations, specific areas of concentration, and necessary
data and cooperation to properly carry out the tasks. The
Government and IDA should comment on this report within one month
after it is submitted;
(b) A draft final report within two months after receiving comment on
the inception report. The report will detail the results of the
study and the recommendations made. Ten copies should be given
to Government, of which the Government shall send two to the
Association. This will allow one month for review and
discussion; and
(c) A Final Report within a month of receipt by expert of comments on
draft final report from Government, incorporating all revisions
deemed appropriate by the expert.
V. Data to lbe provided by the Government
9.        The Government wi:Ll make available to the expert all apropriate
data on the organization, responsibility, structure and regulations
(internal and external) under which the MTP operates as well as personnel



- 80 -
data including pay scales, recruitment policies and practices, job
descriptions, skills and training of employees and other pertinent data.
These data will be treated as strictly confidential by the expert and will
appear in his reports only in such form as to preclude any identification
of an individual nature. The Government will also make available to the
expert any reports, studies etc. which deal with the overall function and
operations of the MTP and will advise the expert of any likely change in
the present structure or function of the MTP. Such probable change will be
taken into account by the expert when developing his recommendations.
10.       When, in connection with the work by the expert cooperation
and/or data from other Government agencies is required, the Government will
provide liaison to ensure that such cooperation and/or data is forthcoming.



- 81 -
Annex 13
DEMOCRATIiC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
in Transport Planning and Coordination
1.        In order to assist the Government of Madagascar and in particular
the Ministry of Transport, Supplies and Tourism (MTRT) to expand and
improve its transport planning capability, the project will include two
experts to work closely with Malagasy officials in this respect.
2.        The team of experts will include:
(1) an economist planner (mission head) to be responsible for
overall transport coordination within MTRT and with other
ministries; and
(2) an engineer-economist specialized in road transport.
3.        The experts shall be attached to the Transport Planning and
Coordination Unit in the MTRT, such unit to be elevated to a level
reporting directly to the permanent secretary. The consultants may also
assist the Directorate General of Planning in the Presidency, as required
by the Government, but they shall report in all cases to the Permanent
Secretary of the MTRT.
4.        The unit will be responsible for establishing the proper
inter-ministerial coordinating imechanisms and will work closely with the
Directorate of Planning in establishing transport demand models based on
macroeconomic projections.
5.        In addition, the expert will:
(i) determine and assist iin collecting and compiling the data
required to implement a continuous and effective transport
planning mechanism in the country;
(ii) recommend and assist in setting up an effective system of
intersectoral development information enabling transport planning
to be made responsive to priorities developed for other sectors
(interministerial meetings or through the Direction du Plan), and
improving the level and effectiveness of intersectoral investment
coordination;
(iii) train Malagasy nationals in matters related to transportation
planning and coordination so that once these services are
completed the Malgasy staff will be capable of taking over full
responsibility for transport planning in Madggascar, including
the preparation, evaluation and supervision of transport projects
and policy formulation;
(iv) advise and assist the Government and the MTRT on current
transportation problem3 and issues, including planning, reviewing
and coordinating transport studies and evaluating major
investment projects proposed for transportation;
(v) assist the Government and MTRT in preparing coordinated trans-
portation investment programs including budgeting of investment
and operating funds for the entire transport sector; and
(vi) advise and assist the Government in transport policy formulation
such as pricing and regulation.



- 82 -
Annex 14
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transportation Plan of Madagascar
Terms of Reference
INTRODUCTION - PURPOSES OF THE STUDY
The inadequacy of transportation planning and coordination in
Madagascar is one of the major causes of the poor functioning of the
transportation sector, which is a serious constraint on the country's
economy.
Conscious of the need to improve transportation planning, the
Government, aided by French cooperation, supplemented later by that of the
International Development Agency, proposes to upgrade and strengthen the
existing transport planning unit in the Ministry of Transport, Supplies and
Tourism and to engage the services of a consultant to develop a program of
action to support the activities of such unit, comprising three phases:
In Phase 1 the task will be to obtain a better knowledge of
present and foreseeable transportation demand in Madagascar, the effective
cspacities offered by the various modes of transportation, and the
conditions and true costs of existing transportation supply.
In Phase 2 a comparison will be developed between foreseeable
transportation demand and foreseeable supply, taking into account the
present situation and the projects under execution. A detailed analysis of
road user charges and taxes, including the taxes and pricing policy of
petroleum derivatives used by the transport sector, as well as an analysis
of regulation policies affecting the movement of passengers and
commodities, will be carried out to prepare recommendations to optimize the
economic use of resources in all modes. The object is to formulate a
transportation coordination, pricing, regulation and planning policy and
identify the development projects to be selected, together with a timetable
of the related investments. This phase of the study is to be carried out
in close liaison with the Administration, at the highest level.
Finally, Phase 3 would comprise the implementation of the
transportation plan following upon the formulation phases, to be undertaken
-under the aegis of the upgraded traLnsportation planning unit within the
Malagasy Administration reinforced with the assistance, if necessary, of
foreign experts.
The planning study will cover the various modes of transportation
in Madagascar. It will take into account all previous or ongoing studies,
particularly the study of Madagascar's mkaritime transportation services
tndertaken with the support of French cooperation.



- 83 -
SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE CONSULTANT
I.       PHASE 1:  COMPILATION OF DATA
(a) Transportation Demand
The purpose of this part of the study is to assess the
transportation demand that the various modes will have to satisfy at the
projection horizons adopted, i.e. five years and ten years after 1984. To
that end, present demand will first be determined and then extrapolated.
Present demand will be determined in the form of
origin-destination matrices between traffic zones and will then be
allocated to the various networks to produce flow charts. This set of
matrices and flow charts will furnish the base for development of the
projections in phase 2.
To establish this base, the consultant will need to:
(i)    collect and analyze all the existing statistics on maritime,
rail, air and road transportation;
(ii)   prepare monograph studies for the major products to be
tr.nsported, placing special emphasis on the localities of production,
c.onsumption or export;
(iii) carry out an origin-destination survey based on interviews of
drivers, in stations judiciously distributed over the roads network, each
of which shall have been operating for a sufficient time to ensure
meaningful results. Special attention will be paid to the problem of
seatsonal variations, due mainly to the farm calendar;
(iv)   conduct a survey, based on interviews and sampling, among the
major road carriers, Madagascar Railways (RNCFM), and Air Madagascar, and
the major users, such as agricultural and industrial production and
marketing agencies.
To be able to analyze the origin-destination surveys and express the
transportation demand in the form of matrices, the consultant will need to
divide the country into traffic zones. These zones will have to be
homogeneous and consistent with the transportation networks and, at the
same time, limited to a reasonable number to keep the data manageable.
This involves difficult but unavoidable choices, to ensure that present and
future traffic can be allocated satisfactorily.
Once this base has been set up, the next step will be to project
demand to the reference horizons, i.e. five and ten years, in order to
arrive at future demand in the form of a set of origin-destination
matrices. A number of methods are available for this purpose, which will
be applied case by case and in combinations, depending on the types of
traffic, goods, etc. involved.
For this purpose the consultant will need to:



- 84 -
(i)    prepare a general economic study embracing the macroeconomic and
demographic aspects and yielding growth prospects and a set of indicators
of that growth, at both the national and the regional levels, on the basis
of the division into zones adopted;
(ii)   perform analyses supplementing the monograph studies, with the
object of projecting production and consumption, by zones, for the major
agricultural, mining and industrial products.  These analyses will have to
review and take into account those mining, industrial and agricultural
projects, already started or firmly committed, whose effects on
transportation flows will not be felt until later;
(iii) prepare matrix projections, i.e. estimates of the
origin-destination matrices to the five-year and ten-year horizons, using
the basic matrices and employing projection methods selected case by case,
the principal methods being as follows:
- correlation with macroeconomic parameters or with the indicators
resulting from the monograph studies, either globally for the
entire matrix, or reasoning zone by zone and calculating the
future matrix with the aid of a FRATAR-type model, which
consists in adjusting the matrix line by line then column by
column iteratively;
- direct projection, flow by flow, on the basis of the monograph
studies;
- projection on the basis of a gravity-type model.
(1b) Transportation Supply
The effective capacity of the various existing modes of
transportation, and its foreseeable trend of development, depend both on
technical factors, associated with infrastructure and equipment conditions,
and on internal factors, associated with the degree of organization and the
financial soundness of the transportation enterprises.
It is accordingly necessary to prepare (a) an overall diagnosis of
the enterprises, and (b) an inventory of existing infrastructures and
equipment.
This inventory is already provided for in the case of the ports;
the above-mentioned study of Madagascar's maritime transportation service.
In the cases of roads, railways, and airports, the pertinent services and
agencies already possess certain data, whiich will have to be assembled,
checked and amplified following field reconnaissances, then classified and
summarized to make them usable at the top decision-making levels. The
road network inventory will cover the roads open to public traffic,
excluding the roads reserved exclusively for use by agricultural, forest,
mining or other specific indistrial operations.   The roads will be
classiEied into homogeneous categories on the basis of their technical and
geometric characteristics(nature of the roadbed, width, and curve and
gradient characteristics) and their present condition.



- 85 -
An inventory of main structures .nd ferries will also be prepared.
The road inventory will be supplemented by an inventory of ongoing projects
and an analysis of road-maintenance technical and financial capacities.
In the case of the railways, a detailed analysis will be performed
of the state of the infrastructures, superstructures and rolling stock, and
of track and equipment maintenance capacity.
On the basis of the inventory of airport infrastructures, the
sites will be classified according to nature of runways, service and
navigat:ion equipment, and operations buildings. An analysis will also be
performed of physical development and improvement needs, ranked in order of
urgency, from the standpoint of the safety of the infrastructures and
equipment and their suitability for the types of aircraft used by Air
Madagascar.
The diagnostic study of road transportation industry will
beperformed by means of a questionnaire survey, supplemented by an
in-depthsurvey, by sampling, among the most representative enterprises in
various categories (freight, passengers, public/private, size) and
single-c,wned, single-operated trucking and busing services.    The survey
will cover (a) quantitative and qualitative state of rolling stock, and
mechanical maintenance capacity, and (b) the financial situations and
performances of the enterprises.
Special attention will be paid to energy consumption. The
diagnostic study of the road transport industry will be supplemented by an
analysis of existing tariff regulations, tax situations and how these
effect te efficiency of the country's road transport industry. The study
of the road transport industry will furnish the basis for estimating
transportation costs (including all taxes; excluding taxes; and foreign
exchange costs), according to the various types of vehicles and roads, as
well as provide the data to assess the level and adequacy of road user
charges.
On the basis of the previous analysis, recommendations will be
prepared to improve the efficiencly of the road transport industry in the
country.
Similarly, a diagnostic study will be carried out of the operation
of the companies Air Madagascar and SNCFM, together with an assessment of
air and rail transportation costs.
This supply inventory must provide the basis for definition of the
networks, by modes, at present and at the five-year and ten-year horizons;
in the case of the roads and railways, the network will be defined by
homogeneous segments to which the traffic can be allocated.
(c) Comparison of Transportation Supply and Demand
This third stage of phase I of the study consists in comparing
transportation supply and demand, as previously determined -- not, at this
point, in order to judge their suitability and adequateness and to study
any needed modifications of supply (which will form the subject of phase II



- 86 -
of the study), but in order to analyze the assignment of transport demand
to the network, i.e. the transition from the origin-destination matrices to
flow charts for each mode.
It is thus a matter of analyzing the rules of modal competition
and of taking into account all the special features of the situation in
Madagascar, so as to express properly the rules of traffic assignment
applicable to Madagascar. The flows arrived at in this way must then be
compared with the measured traffic in order to calibrate this assignment
model, if necessary by successive iterations. This comparison of
calculated traffic and measured traffic will also furnish an important
check on the hypotheses made in the monograph studies and during
construction of the matrices.
(d) Analysis of Basic Costs
For the purpose of the comparative analyses to be performed in
phase II, it will be necessary also to study the transportation costs and
to group them together in the form of grids for (a) motor vehicle operating
costs (by type of vehicle, type of relief, arnd type of road), railway
operating costs , air transport costs, and port costs, with respect to
transportation costs proper; (b) capital costs, taking into account the
possibilities forsuccessive improvements and therefore calculating the cost
of transition from a given development level to the next higher level, and
this for each of the modes; and finally (c) maintenance costs, which will
be detailed according to the levels of maintenance.
(e) Composition of the Team Responsible for Phase I
The bulk of phase I of the study constitutes a task more of
compilation than of analysis. It is desirable that it be carried out by
the consultant in close collaboration with the Malagasy Administration.
However, the staff that will be appointed to participate in this
first phase of the study may not be of the same level of competence and
responsibility as those who have to participate very closely in formulation
of the recommendations of phase II, which involve choices of transport
policy.
II.   PHASE II -- COMPARISON OF TRANSPORTATION SUPPLY AND DEMAND: ANALYSIS
OF PROBLEMS, AND FORMULATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS
Phase I of the study will have provided information on foreseeable
transportation demand, expressed by flows defined in terms of direction and
volume, and also the capacity offered by the existing transportation
system. The task in this second phase of the study is to compare
transportation demand and supply and to propose solutions for meeting
demand at lowest economic cost and, in partictLlar, at lowest energy cost.
In the event that the shortfall of resources requires that implementation
of the recommended solutions be spread over time, a set of priorities will
be drawn up, together with an execution timetaLble.



- 87 -
It is essential that the analysis work done during phase II be
performed iri close association with the responsible authorities, at very
high level, so that the officials subsequently responsible for applying the
recommendations of the Transportation Plan will have been involved very
closely in formulating them. They will then be aware of and perfectly
understand the reasons and circumstances underLying the recommendations.
Since a number of ministries are involved, it will be advisable to set up
an inter-ministerial committee and to pay careful attention to the
distribution of the tasks and responsibilities of each one in the Malagasy
Administration.
Participation in this phase is also necessary of a small number of
Malagasy experts, who will later form the core of the transportation
plannig unit responsible for monitoring implementation of the
Transportation Plan during phase III. Finally, it is desirable that the
foreign experts who will later furnish advisory, assistance to this planning
unit, or at least some of them, also participate in this analysis and
recommendations phase.
Phase II wilL comprise the following major tasks:
(a) Assignment of Transport Flows
The task here is to assign the projected transportation demand
flows to the various transportation modes in light of potential capacities
and ofeconom:Lc costs including the relevant energy costs.
In practice, competition between two or more modes arises only in
certain cases, the most important of which are the links Antananarivo-
Toamasino, Antananarivo-Antsirabe, and Manakara-Fianarantsoa, for which the
question arises of the choice between rail and road investments.
Other cases of competition could arise between road and coastal
sea transportation or the use of canals (Pangalanes) or between road and
air transportation (passengers and certain types of freight). All these
cases will be studied by comparing the updated balance sheets of
generalized costs, including investment, maintenance and operating costs
and also, where appropriate, the value of time, for each mode. Special
attention will be paid to the foreign exchange iand energy balance sheets.
(b) Programming of Investments and Developmnent Activities
The task here is to determine for each transportation mode:
-    the list of infrastructure and equipment investments to be
programmed, together with their timetable;
-    the infrastructure maintenance programs;
-    the personnel training programs; distinguishing first between the
private sector, the public sector and the administration, and
second between personnel levels: manage!rs, supervisors and
foremnen, and operatives;



- 88 -
the programs of financing of the transportation enterprises;
possible programs of technical assistance to the transportation
enterprises.
This programming will take the form of a precise priority program
for the short term, and of guidelines for the longer term. It will be
supported by the results derived from the previous phases of the study:
-   quantitative shortfalls, revealed by the comparison between
foreseeable tra!nsportation supply and demand;
-   qualitative deficiencies, reflected in high costs detected during
the diagnostic study of the transportation sector;
-   recomniendations concerning modal allocation of traffic, derived
from comparison of the updated balance sheets of total,
foreign-exchange and energy costs.
The composition of the programs will have to be such as to ensure
consistency and. complementarity between the development of the various
modes of transportation.
(c) Tariff and Fiscal Policies
The study will also review road transport costs in light of
current and adjusted tariffs and will assess the impact of a complete
liberalization of tariffs.
In light of information gathered on present and future road
transportation costs an the associated costs of building and maintaining the
required infrastructure, th study should make recommendations on the
required levels and sources of road user charges and methods of ensuring
their adjustement on a timely basis.
(d) Coordination and Organization Policy
Cohesive and harmonious development of the transportation system
calls for coordination of the investment and mainlenance programs of the
various modes and also of tariff and fiscal polic:Les.
To this end it will be necessary to assemble the whole of the
measures recommended for the various transportation modes in a single
summarizing document so as to demonstrate their cohesion and
complementarity. This document will also serve as action guidelines for
verifying that this cohesion is duly observed in the execution of the
programs.
III.     PHASE III -- IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TRANSPORTATION PLAN
The transportation planning study (phases I and II above) will
have to provide the basis for setting up a planning unit within the
Malagasy Administration, responsible for monitoring and implementing the
recommendations of the Plan.



- 89 -
The composition of this unit and its integration into the existing
administrative structure pose institutional problems. Thus, it is
necessary to know what the respective roles will be of the ministries
involved and how the tasks and responsibilities wLll be distributed. This
is not the place to go into these questions, but it may nevertheless be
stressed that one of the major roles of the unit will be to act as the
veritable permanent secretariat of the Inter-Ministerial Transportation
Planning Committee (Comitg Interministeriel de Planification des
Transports). The Committee will already have been involved very closely in
the analyses conducted in phase II and will have to continue to monitor
implementation of the policy defined.
This unit will have to consist of a number of Malagasy engineers
who have participated in the previous phases, together with two permanent
expatriate experts who, so far as possible, will also have participated in
phases I and II. The unit will also have to be provided with the means to
call on high-level experts in highly specific fields to perform short
missions.
This implementation of the recommendatiorns concerning coordination
and organization, together with monitoring of execution and evalution of
results, will involve mainly the following tasks:
development of a system of compilation and processing of
statistical data for keeping track of chEnges in the situations of
the transportation enterprises and in the various kinds of
traffic;
-    development of system of monitoring of the evolution of
transportation costs;
-    monitoring of execution of the investment and development
actLvities programs of the various transportation modes;
-    preparation of all measures for adjustment of the above
progyrams and of the tariff or fiscal policies found to be
necessary;
-    preparation of all desirable supporting measures.
REPORTS TO BE PRESENTED
1.       Report on transportation demand, presented upon completion of the
studies described under task 1 (a) above, within five months following
notification of the order to start the study.
2.       Report on the diagnostic study of the transportation sector,
presented upon completion of the studies described under tasks 1 (b), (c)
and (d) above, within seven months following notification of the order to
start the study.
3.       Provisional report on the transport organization and planning
proposals, presented upon completion of the studies described at 2 (a), (b)
and (c) above, within ten months following notification of the order to
start the study.



- 90 -
This report will constitute, to some degree, the putting into form
of the decisions of the Inter-Ministerial Transportation Planning
Committee.
4.       Final report, presented within two months following receipt of the
comments on the provisional report (referred to at 3 above), containing the
summarizing document referred to at 3 (d).
5.       Progress reports, presented every three months during phase III.



- 91 -
Annex 15
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to LNTPB
Outline Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.     The MTP intends to strengthen and expand the operations of
Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics et du Batiment (LNTPB), the
Government SoiLs Laboratory for road construction and maintenance. To do
so, MTP will need the assistance of consultants experienced in soils,
materials and Eoundation engineering and soils laboratory management.
Objectives
2.     The objectives of LNTPB are to:  (i) participate in running road
construction and maintenance works and carry appropriate soils and
foundation studies in design and implementation of these works; (ii) carry
out research on the utilization of local materials for the construction and
maintenance of civil works; and (iii) assist in the supervision of the
execution of these works.
Team composition
3.     A team of three experts will be assigned to LNTPB.  One for three
years to carry out soils exploration and identification of local materials
for use in road works; and two for two and a half years to assist in
strengthening and expanding CNTPB's operations in road construction and
maintenance.
Qualifications
4.     These engineers should hold degrees in civil engineering with a
specialty in soils and foundation engineering; in addition they should have
at least ten years' extensive experience in management of soils labora-
tories. They should have worked in a developing country, preferably in
Africa, and should be fluent in French.
Scope of Services
5.     The consultants will assist LNTPB in (a) selectlng and procuring
laboratory equipment; (ii) planning soils testingr and evaluation programs;
(iii) designing structures and maintenance; (iv) supervising the execution
of these works; and (v) carrying out material research programs.



- 92 -
Annex 16
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Reporting Requirement
A.   Project Progress Reports
1.         The borrower will prepare Progress Reports that should be sub-
mitted semi-annually in triplicate, no later than one calendar month after
the end of each six-month period.  The first report should cover the half-
year period ending June 30, 1984.
2.        The information that Progress Reports should contain is described
below:
(a)  General Information: This should include the following:
(i)  the  physical  progress  accomplished  during  the  reporting
period;
(ii)  actual or expected deviations from the project implementa-
tion schedule;
(iii)  actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effects
on the implementation schedule, and the steps planned or
taken to overcome the difficulties and avoid further delay;
(iv)  expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(v)  key personnel changes in the staff of the administration,
consultants or contractor;
(vi)  matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(vii)  any development activity likely to affect the economic via-
bility of project components.
(b) A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule should show the progress in each project component.
(c) A financial statement should be set out in tabular form and
indicate for each project component:
(i) original estimated cost;
(ii)  revised cost, if appropriate;
(iii)  actual expenditure;
(iv)  projected expenditure; and
(v)  actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.



- 93 -
(d) Finally, Progress Reports should state the status of action on
each covenant of the Credit Agreement.
3.        Progress Reports will be an important input in the preparation of
the Project Completion Report.
B.   Project Completion Report
4.        The borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be
submitted to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Clos-
ing Date.
5.         The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce self-evaluation
by the borrower and the Association's operating departments and to facili-
tate dissemination of lessons learned through the project:
(a)  the performance by the borrower and the Association of their re-
spective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether the
Association could have been more helpful;
(b)  the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal, and whether the original expecta-
tions were realistic; and
(c)  whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have
been done better.
6.         For those components of the project for which a rate of return
was estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of
the return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for
physical or economic deviations.  However, the new rate of return calcula-
tions should be as simple as possible under the circumstances and should
absorb only a minor portion of the time devoted to the preparation of the
PCR.   An  annex with  the relevant  information  supporting  this  analysis
should be included.
7.        The basic documents to be referred to are:
Credit Application
Feasibility studies, Appraisal Relport
Credit Agreement documents, supplementary letters, etc.
Semi-annual Progress Reports
Project Correspondence Files
Miscellaneous Evaluation Reports.
8.        The Eastern Africa Transportation Division 1 will review and
comment on the PCR. After approval by the Highway Division Chief, the PCR
is sent Ito the Bank Group's Operations Evaluation Department (OED) which is
responsible for conducting an audit of the project. This audit can lead to
suggestions for changes or additions in the PCR as OED prepares the Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for submission to the Bank Groups, Board of
Directors.   Before going to the Board, the draft PPAR, which includes the
PCR, is sent to various Bank Group diviLsions, to the Government, and
occasionally to consultants.



- 94 -
Amnex 17
DEMDRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SDXH IEEGIAY PROJEC
Vehicle Operating Costs (RMV/km)
Type of Road
Iype of Vehicle    Good Paved   Poor Paved   Bad Paved   Earth Gbod   Earth Fair   Earth Poor
(1)         (2)          (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)
Car                    124.93       143.67      157.15      201.40        241.68       271.02
Bus                    176.96       205.27      2214.82     312.36        390.45       464.61
Pickup                 189.22       221.39      247.14      344.06        447.28       532.14
Heavy Tnuck           257.91        304.33      339.41      471.61        636.67       742.88
Source: linistry of Trareport, Supplies and Tourism and mlssion estimates.



- 95 -
Annex 17
Table 2
Economic Analysis
Paved Road Maintenance
RN         From               To            Km        Cost 1/      ERR
6        Ambanja          Ambilobe           102       255         250
5a       Vohemar          Sambava           107        263         191
3b       Sambava          Andapa             99        248          83
31       Antsohiny        Antsanabe          60        150          38
32       Antsohiny        Befandriana        75        188         127
6        Ambondromamy    Antsohiny          298        745         165
5        Toamasina        Fenerive          140        350         164
22       Fenerive         Manatenina-
Anjahambe          55        138         60
2        Antananarivo    Moramanga           115       288         264
3        Antananarivo    Anjozorobe           90       225         355
51       Ivato            Ambohimanga          5        13         245
3a       Vohidiala        Vohitraivo         105       263         124
33       Moramanga        Ambakireny         40        100          30
35       Ivato-Mahabo    Morondava           109       273          54
34       Antsirabe        Miandrivazao-
Malaimbandy       323        808        356
4b       Analavory        Tsiroanomandy      94      1,067         177
1        Antananarivo    Analavory          124        310         146
43       Analavory        Soavinandriana                75         202
12       Manakara         Vangaindrano      177        443         109
13       Ambovaombe       Ta:Loagnaro       110        275          27
7        Toliary          Sakaraha          135        338         147
55       Morombe          Tanandava          62        155         268
1/ (US$'000)



- 96 -
Annex 18
DEMOCR&TIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
1.        Etude de Reforcement et de Reconstruction des Tranqons Bitum6s
sur les Routes Nationales RN 4 et RN 7: Etude de Factibilitg
(Fevrier 1983);
2.        Elements d'Evaluation (Entretien Routier) du 6eme Projet Routier
(Decembre 1982);
3.        Projet FIDA-FAO de Developpment Rizicole sur les Hauts Plateaux,
Volet Routier (D4cembre 1982);
4.        Etude des Besoins de Formation du Personnel pour l'Entretien
Routier et les Travaus en Regie;
5.        Laboratoire National des Travaux Publics et du Batiment (LNTPB):
Projet du Developpement des Activities (AoGt 1982); and
6.        Evaluation des Besoins en Piaces de Recharge de Parc Automobile
Malgache (Fevrier 1983).



MADAGASCAR SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
OR.GANIZATION OFMrTP
rMinister of 
|Pol,lic Works 
Inpector  (5)                                          Secretariat 
|    eoter of Policy  j
soad Tecnimcol Studies    }
|Generfl Dtrectorate |           -iGeneral Secretarnto|
of Wor-k (DGE)                                                                                                                                     (Adininstration)
|Contracts  |                                                                                                                                                                                                          Off ice of Geosnall 
Read                  Architectors.            Disisioo of             4ntipmsnf                                             Directorate ofat                                                              Coaputing 
Maintenance             ijekantemsoad           Gofrastructare             Hivisiso    |                                             inance                                                          lDvso 
= -~~~~~~~~~~~~~If tr.
Disision (PCR)  MacnEn Disision(DIIe                            (DMA?)
kbn Planning ||Public
so  DSevelap.ent | |ulidions|
Regionsl Road        Aotoneinous                                                             Regional                    Financial |AccoonmtiOn      Segiotatios                            Planning and
Mlaintenance      Snkdivieion of                                                             SnppiePs                     Services      Office        and Legal                              Frternast     Pernsonnsl   Training
Divisions (6)        Tolagnaro    j                                                          ivinlon (6)                                              Division                                Affairs
EqupetfoetSply pr at n



MADAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGWAY PROJECT
PROJIBCT rIPLEENTATION SCHEDUL    1/
C.lendar Year
1983           1984                  1985                 1986
Item              It-m Comonents                       Ac-tivity                    Action By             _    -    -    -    _    -    -             _ -    -        _
3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
Credit                                            Signing                           Government/IDA
Effectiveness                    Government/IDA
Road mainte-   Equipment, Materials and           Preparation of Bids               Suppliers
nance           Supplies                         Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Supply                           Suppliers
Workshop Construction             Preparation of Bids               Contractors
Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Works                            Contractors
HTP Management                    Proposals                         Consultants
Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Services                         Consultants
Works by Contractors              Preparation of Bids              Contractors
Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Works                            Contractors-
Rehabilitation  RN 4 and RN 7                      Preparation of Bids               Contractors
Paved Roads                                       Evaluation and Award              Government/IDA
Works                            Contractors                           _    -          _    _ -          _  _ -         _
Improvement      Equipment                         Preparation of Bids               Suppliers
LNTPB                                              Evaluation and Award              Government/IDA
Supply                           Suppliers
Technical Assistance              Proposals                        Consultants
Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Services                         Consultants                           -    -    -    -           -               _    _
Transport        Technical Assistance HTRT         Proposals                        Consultants
Planning                                          Evaluation and Award              Government/IDA
Services                         Consultants                                      _    _ -                   _ -        _          -
Training         Equipment                         Preparation of Bids               Suppliers
Program                                           Evaluation and Award              Government/IDA
Supply                           Suppliers
Technical Assistance              Proposals                        Consultants
Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Services                         Consultants                                      -                      _  _ -    -               _
Transport        Spare Parts                                                        Government/BNI/IDA                               =    =    =    =           _         _
Industry
Preinvestment   Pavement and Feeder Roads          Proposals                        Consultants
Studies                                          Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Feasibility Studies              Consultants
Review                           Government/IDA
Detail Engineering               Consultants
MTP Organiza-   Organization Studies               Proposals                         Consultants
tion Studies                                      Evaluation and Award             Government/IDA
Studies                          Consultants
1/ All Bidding documents and short lists of consultants will have been completed by September 1983.



I






I






I B R D 16909R
44'4                                                        48                           50          JUNE 1983
MGAnCtseranona
MA DAGASCAR
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ECONOMIC ROAD NETWORK
NOSY- BE              Aoo, b
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT;           SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT: .                                         +
WORKSHOP IMPROVEMENT             A   WORKSHOP IMPROVEMENT                Hell-vU , i                   4
ROAD REHABILITATION            -R ROAD REHABILITATION                         \          N
ROAD iMPROVEMENT AND
TRIDGE CONSTRUCTI0O'                                                    ,1
EXISTING  ROADS. ,                                                                                                               14
PAVED ROADS                                                                                              , Somboo
-       E4NGINEERED EARTH ROADS                                                5tolona
------ FEEDER AND RURAL ROADS                                           Ano-eIavq51        'J
;t   PORTS                                                                         +d, A,,d-v  Anddpo
RAILROADS                                                                    Amb rote   ? Anskabay            Antaloha
+     AIRPORTS                                                                                                 '*'
-      RIVERS                                                                               elondriono A..
_    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                            / >      of,o          -  ,
1e0       150                                        0,1 Ber'    TarahonenaMao/
o  5b lOtt lbO alo  X   >    S                                 tz  ndrlosofa    W                                           16-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'MLS  o
--aaMoKt1.oMETERS                                    0
J1  ~          ~      ~          ~         01 '< j'K'>     -
O  50    00    15    200   250
I6-
AJ~~~~~~~~-                          '\        i,k<o sX Anhojamngoh6 0     5 oofloro
M a Z <7m b / q  e   ($  >  orafenob  '   4t\    Xtnocrivo Atsinanancr
$   AmEo  -'-. ~ ~ ~    ~    t-d  .k
t8'        M ombron ;+                    2            \   Xta    1:_ Von,d afaMoe ornonAmba oaniraoa-[ahr 
A  _   f     Akzdor b,   KToamasina
0                       2                    0                          Vooonoo_r,a e CrJCdrnb8 
Cfi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                            nanef4>/' -  Jf
M~~za  mb;quko.                    Morofnobe     /z .aolh             ,gm tolamr nsb   A/9tmr
IS'                                                                    12h   4,nhoario   ,                                        1t
'3A.Nzorob                  atA\ 4'bh   B   o 
20                                     I .            t     Hah0,zhO' Ot                         '                     ?r                20'
Morono nd;o            tm a d ~ s                  '         Moro,orno o/
M              aN-d->                                      A-,bt -mA/
M=.b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                                              Tb Wfi  M0 -knbunso  M najay 
Morontbe            aro h oQ t>,FenooJIOh gAnrbol/                       -                              This htap ttss beet preparett by
$  9   qAnRiizooba   ~~~~~~  ) Ankornreio      pltan reea Xnkt                         reCOetns sO l roh,s tdGank
- .0         /              d   SOs,        9 Mehaveloq '-M .   Fdn n"                                  P.-enh
poolS! The ThBeolak en1d B ft
TOlidrOI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onrz 5erk   haor        /ennabsol PaicocoC,prlIn
Forofangano                           .         0 1
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 015 1 ,5 24          0 0.  0  -
\   Bek Iy  .   ~~B,aT.kr          ,  .<
Bek0l5 O00,01a000 OF
I  _iA
ArnbhosoryO*                                        O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE-AN
Tlanaro                      A TLRAN TC K
/Am   ombe                                    OCEAN
At                           44                       -   46'                           48'                          i



