Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17239
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2013-BO)
December 16, 1997
Mining and Industry Unit, Energy, Mining and Telecommunications Department
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 24, 1997)
Currency Unit   =  Boliviano (BOB)
US$1.00        =  5.325 BOB
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAMIN      -  Mining Bank
COMIBOL  -  Bolivian Mining Corporation
EA         -  Environmental Audit
EIMP       -  Environment, Industry and Mining Project
EMV        -  Vinto Metallurgical Company
FONEM      -  Mining Exploration Fund
IDA        -  International Development Asociation
MEIS       -  Mining Environmental Information System
MSRP       -  Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project
NEP        -  New Economic Policy
PMI        -  Public Mining Institutions
PPO        -  Oruro Pilot Project
PRE        -  Economic Restructuring Plan
SDR        -  Special Drawing Rights
SEA        -  Sector Environmental Assessment
SEK        -  Swedish Crown
SERGEOMIN - Geological and Mining Survey
SETMIN    -  Mining Cadaster
SIMN       -  National Mining Information System
SNM        -  National Mining Secretariat
YPFB       -  Bolivian Petroleum Company
Vice President:                                   Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director:                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Task Manager:                                     Felix Remy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2013-BO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................                                                                I
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .............................................2
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT  ........................................6
A. Background and Project Objectives .............................................6
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .............................................9
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................................                     15
D. Project Sustainability ............................................                                  16
E. IDA  Performance ............................................                                        16
F.  Borrower Performance ............................................                                   17
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................                                   18
H. Future Operation ............................................                                        19
I.  Key Lessons Learned ............................................                                    19
PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ............................................                                          22
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .......................................                                  22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .......................................                             23
Table 3: Project Timetable .......................................                                      24
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........... 25
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................ 25
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................... 25
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...................................................                25
Table 8A: Project Costs ...................................................                             29
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................................................                         30
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                30
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenant ...................................................                  32
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................... 42
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................              42
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................                  42
Appendix A: Project Completion Mission Aide Memoire .............................................. 44
Appendix B: Borrower's Contribution to the Report ...................................................... 49
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2013-BO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project (MSRP) for Bolivia for which Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
2013-BO in the amount of SDR 26.5 million equivalent was approved on May 11, 1989. The
Credit became effective on June 14, 1990.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, two years after the original closing date of
June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on October 31, 1997, at which time a balance of
SDR 586,286.89 was cancelled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by a grant from the
Government of Sweden of SEK 67 million.
Preparation of this ICR was led by Felix Remy of the Mining and Industry Unit of the
Energy, Mining and Telecommunications Department, with the assistance of Gotthard Walser
of the same unit. It has been reviewed by Peter van der Veen, Chief of the same unit, Susan
Goldmark, FPSI Sector Leader LCC6C, and Maria Victoria Lister, Operations Officer LCSFP,
and has been cleared by David Varela, LEGLA. The Borrower provided comments that are
included as appendices to the ICR. The cofinanciers participated in the completion mission
and provided verbal comments which are integrated in the report.
Preparation of this ICR was commenced during the Bank's final supervision/
completion mission from March 31-April 10, 1997. It is based on materials collected by the
mission and in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing historical information regarding both the project and the Credit, by contributing
views reflected in the mission's aide memoire and by producing its section of the report.






2
BOLIVIA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2013-BO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    During the late 1970s and early 1980s, IDA assistance to the Bolivian mining sector
was aimed at: (i) providing access to credit for small and medium private miners; (ii) providing
technical assistance to public mining institutions (PMIs); and (iii) developing a national
capability to execute adequate mineral exploration. The Bank funded (i) credit programs
through the state-owned mining bank and a private development bank;(ii) technical assistance
(TA) to the Ministry of Mines and the Geological Survey Institute, and (iii) supported the
establishment of an exploration fund with the aim of developing it into a financing
organization. Later, in the context of the collapse of the Bolivian mining sector caused by the
tin crisis of 1985, the Bank supported the rehabilitation of the Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia
(COMIBOL), the state owned mining enterprise. None of these operations were based on a
comprehensive sectoral analysis as all had narrowly defined goals. None of these projects met
their objectives.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The overall objective of the Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project (MSRP) was to
reactivate the Bolivian mining sector by supporting the Government's mining policy, in the
context of the Bolivian New Economic Policy. The specific objectives as originally agreed in
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were (i) the creation of an enabling environment
for private investment in mining; (ii) the rehabilitation and modernization of the state-owned
COMIBOL; (iii) the reactivation of private small and medium mining by providing access to
credit; and (iv) the modernization and strengthening of the public mining institutions (PMIs).
The project was divided into three components: Part A - COMIBOL Component, Part B -
Credit Component, and Part C - Institutional Component.
3.    On August 6, 1989, two days after the signing of the DCA, a new Government assumed
office and initiated a review of the mining policy which was to be supported by the MSRP.
Following this review the Bolivian Government and IDA decided that, rather than modernizing
the state-owned COMIBOL, the most viable way to rehabilitate the company was to encourage
private participation in its operations. On June 14, 1990, coinciding with Credit effectiveness,
the first amendment to the DCA required the preparation of an Economic Restructuring Plan
(PRE) for COMIBOL as an instrument to prepare the company for the transfer of its operations
to the private sector. The MSRP made little progress in the period 1989-1992 due to a lack of



3
political will, which resulted in a suspension of disbursements between February and
December, 1992. Nevertheless in April 1993, the fourth amendment formalized the results of
the base studies of the PRE and established that the rehabilitation of the mines of COMIBOL
would be based on private investment. It also established the need for mining environmental
regulations and management and for environmental audits of the properties to be transferred to
the private sector.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.    Achievement of objectives: The MSRP achieved most of its objectives. Sector policy
improvements, supported by a new Mining Code, were achieved; the rehabilitation and
transformation of COMIBOL was largely accomplished, including the transfer to the private
sector of a number of assets; the access to credit of private mining companies was improved,
and the restructuring and modernization of the PMIs was completed.  The project also
established the legal and institutional basis for the transfer of the remaining assets of
COMIBOL to private sector management.
5.    Sustainability: Although depending on the completion of the transfer of COMIBOL's
operations to the private sector, the results achieved by the MSRP are very likely to be
sustainable, given that (i) the new Mining Code establishes private investment as the engine
for sector growth and limits COMIBOL to the role of a holding company; and (ii) the
restructured PMLs are functioning in their administrative and monitoring capacities.
6.    Project cost and financing: The improved legal-institutional framework for the
mining sector brought about by the MSRP caused a strong increase in private investment in
Bolivian mining in general and in the former COMIBOL mines in particular. As the scope of
the investments undertaken went far beyond what was originally foreseen, the project cost
increased substantially. The MSRP was initially estimated to cost US$126.8 million; it is now
estimated that it will total US$357.3 million, of which private investment will contribute
US$154.0 million instead of the US$8.3 million of the original estimate.
7.   Implementation timetable: The Project had a slow start and was restructured in the
fourth amendment. Consequently, the Closing Date, originally set for June 30 1995, was
extended twice, one year each time, to June 30, 1997. By project closure the Credit was
almost fully disbursed. A undisbursed balance of SDR586,286.89 was cancelled.
8.    Factors affecting achievement of objectives: The factors which affected project
implementation fall in two categories: (i) factors subject to government control, such as lack of
political will in the 1989-1992 period, slow implementation and poor coordination of the
Ministries since August 1993, resulting in the failure to capitalize Vinto Metallurgical
Company (EMV) and transfer the Huanuni and Colquiri mines of COMIBOL to the private
sector prior to project closure; and (ii) the insufficient managerial and professional capacity of
the executing agencies, especially during the initial phase of execution.



4
9.   IDA performance: IDA performance was fully satisfactory. Bank staff assisted the
Government in identifying the principal obstacles to sector development and in defining the
scope of a project to effectively rehabilitate the sector. Later IDA staff provided clear
guidance in pursuing project goals and in setting priorities, which proved critical in drafting
the new Mining Code and in the design of the TA program.
10.   Borrower performance: Despite disagreements in the early stage of project execution
and delays in the later stage, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. The main
weakness of the Borrower was at the managerial level of some executing agencies.
11.   Project outcome: Notwithstanding the achievements of the project, which could justify
a highly satisfactory rating, the potential negative effect on sustainability caused by the non
termination of the restructuring of COMIBOL during project execution and the poor
performance of the Credit Component of the Project define the project as satisfactory. The
impact of the new mining policy has been outstanding: private investment in exploration has
grown more than twenty-fold and private project investment has grown ten-fold in the last
seven years; the restructuring of COMIBOL has reversed its history of losses and it should
now make a contribution to the Bolivian economy. A legal framework and management
capacity for the administration of environmental affairs has been established. The completion
of the privatization of the COMIBOL mining assets and operations, scheduled by end of 1998
would mark the achievement of all major project objectives.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
12.   Future operations: The stability of the present legal-and institutional framework is
essential to the achievement of a competitive, self-sustaining private sector led, mining
industry. Consolidation of the legal and institutional achievements of the Project and the
completion of the transfer of the remaining COMIBOL mining assets and operations to the
private sector will be key elements in achieving this.
13.   Lessons learned: The major lessons learned from this project are:
a) The comprehensive nature of the project, which addressed the legal, institutional,
environmental and privatization reforms of the sector, was fundamental to the
achievement of its objectives, given the close relationship between the different
components of the mining sector.
b) Political and social factors play a major role in projects aimed at the privatization of
state-owned companies and restructuring of public institutions. This needs to be
considered in the planning and execution stages of the project.
c) Well-designed conditionality in fast-disbursing adjustment credits is useful to
provide leverage to "teeth poor" technical assistance projects.
d) Early, systematic training of project personnel helps expedite procurement
procedures and contracting of consultants.
e) Stability of qualified personnel in the executing agencies can be fundamental to
project success.



5
f) The continuity and strong sector experience of Bank staff, complemented by the
presence of international consultants based in La Paz resulted in a consistent
approach and policy during execution, in spite of changes of local authorities.
g) The integration of restructuring and technical components has been key to the
strengthening of the PMIs, by advancing both, the development of the organization
and of its products.



6
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BOLIVIA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2013-BO)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.    The tin crisis of 1985, which resulted in a drop in world tin prices from about
US$5.50/lb to about US$2.00/lb, precipitated the collapse of the Bolivian mining sector, which
was already suffering from low productivity caused by excessive state participation and the
absence of private/foreign investment. After the nationalization of the mines and the creation
of the state owned Mining Corporation of Bolivia (COMIBOL) in 1952, the Bolivian mining
sector was characterized by the intervention of the State in the production of metals,
predominantly tin, the use of obsolete technologies and an insufficient level of investment in
exploration and development. COMIBOL was never operated as a business concern and
accrued losses which add up to more than US$ 1,300 million since 1952. Private sector
mining was underdeveloped and consisted of local, small to medium-scale companies,
principally involved in tin mining. As a consequence of the crisis of 1985, which coincided
with the Bolivian macroeconomic collapse and the subsequent economy-wide stabilization
effort, 20 of the 27 state mining operations were forced to close, and only 3 small-medium
private companies were able to continue in operation. In 1984, the Bolivian mining sector
generated US$369 million (47% of total exports) compared with US$197 million in 1987
(30% of exports).
2.    Recognizing the importance and the potential of the mining sector, the Bolivian
Government and IDA agreed in 1986 to a Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project (MSRP). The
project was financed by IDA Credit 2013-BO in the amount of SDR 26.5 million and co-
financed by a grant from the Government of Sweden of 67 million SEK (about US$10
million). The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on August 4, 1989, became
effective on June 14, 1990, and was closed on June 30, 1997. There were two one-year
extensions to the original closing date of June 30, 1995.
3.    The MSRP was fully successful in creating the conditions for the refocussing,
modernization, and expansion of the Bolivian mining sector in the context of the new
economic policy of the country. The refocussing was achieved by the establishment of a legal



7
and institutional framework, which provided an enabling environment for private investment
in mining, and by transferring operational and investment responsibilities from the State to the
private sector. Modernization of the sector involved the introduction of state-of-the-art
technology by the private sector and the strengthening and modernization of the public mining
institutions (PMIs), particularly the Mining Cadaster.
Background
4.    During the early 1980s, the Bolivian economy experienced a period of hyper-inflation,
which, in conjunction with the fall in the price of tin in 1985, resulted in the collapse of the
mining sector. In August 1985, the Bolivian government reacted by enacting a stabilization
program to reduce inflation and restore internal and external balances to the economy, and by
introducing a New Economic Policy (NEP) based on a free market economy. In 1986 the
government adopted a new mining policy, which sought to reinvigorate the sector and
recognized the mineral potential of the country. The policy aimed at strengthening and
modernizing the main mining operations of COMIBOL while at the same time attracting
foreign investment for the development of new deposits and strengthening the public mining
institutions (PMIs). IDA supported this policy by approving the MRSP in May 1989. The
corresponding Development Credit Agreement was signed on August 4, 1989. The Credit
became effective on June 14, 1990.
5.    On 6' August, 1989, a new Administration took over the Bolivian government, and
initiated a review of the mining policy as supported by the MSRP. The consequent period of
uncertainty resulted in an increase in personnel at COMIBOL of approximately 9% in the last
five months of 1989. The Bolivian government and IDA then decided that, rather than
modernizing the operations of COMIBOL, the most viable way to rehabilitate the company
was to encourage private participation in its operations. In June 1990, the first amendment
(coinciding with Credit effectiveness) was made to the DCA. This amendment introduced an
Economic Restructuring Plan (PRE) for COMIBOL as the instrument to prepare for the
transfer of the operational responsibilities and activities of the company to the private sector.
Two additional amendments were introduced during 1991. The second amendment opened the
Special Account and the third amendment reallocated the amounts and reviewed the
percentage of expenditures to be financed by each category.
6.    The slow initiation of the restructuring of COMIBOL and the frequent delays in
starting the base studies of the PRE led IDA to suspend disbursements in February 1992. This
suspension was lifted in December of the same year, once the government made significant
progress in restructuring the company.  Progress included: (i) the enactment of legal
instruments which facilitated the transformation of COMIBOL from an operating mining
company into an entity which takes minority participation in and administers joint ventures
and leases which are operated by private mining companies; (ii) appointment of competent
executive authorities in COMIBOL; (iii) the initiation of a second stage of mine closures and
rationalization of personnel; and (iv) the initiation of the base studies of the PRE.



8
7.   In April 1993, the fourth amendment to the DCA was signed. It established (i) that the
rehabilitation of COMIBOL would be based on the transfer of all investment and operational
responsibilities to the private sector, and extended project closure one year, until June 30,
1996; (ii) that the need for environmental regulations and audits to facilitate the transfer of
operations to the private sector would be addressed; and (iii) a substantial reduction, from SDR
5.5 million to SDR 2.0 million in the amount allocated to the Credit Component, transferring
the remaining SDR 3.5 million to the Institutional Component. Subsequently, in May 1996,
the fifth amendment extended the project for an additional year, until June 30, 1997, and
canceled the undisbursed amount of the Credit Component, and the sixth amendment, in
January 1997, transferred the responsibility for the recovery of the proceeds which had been
disbursed by the Credit Component from the Central Bank to the newly-formed NAFIBO.
8.   In March 1994 the government enacted the Capitalization Law which aimed at
capitalizing and transferring to foreign private investors the investment and operational
responsibilities of six state companies, including the Empresa Metaliirgica Vinto (EMV), a
COMIBOL subsidiary responsible for tin smelting. EMV was offered together with the option
of joint venture or lease contracts for the Huanuni and Colquiri mines, the two main tin
production centers in Bolivia. The intent of the inclusion of the mines in the EMV package
was to ensure an adequate supply of low cost raw material to the smelter. After the change of
government in August 1997, the new administration has decided to review its options in order
to (i) evaluate the capitalization option against the possibility of direct privatization of EMV;
and (ii) define whether the Huanuni and Colquiri mines would be offered in the same package
with EMV or separately
Project Objectives
9.    The overall objective of the MSRP was to reactivate the Bolivian mining sector by
supporting the Government's mining policy. The project aimed to restructure the sector in
accordance with the Government's role within a modem state in a free market economy. The
specific objectives of the project were: (i) the creation of an enabling environment for private
investment; (ii) the restructuring and rehabilitation of COMIBOL; (iii) the reactivation of
medium and small-scale mining by providing access to credit; and (iv) the strengthening of the
PMIs. The project was divided into three components: COMIBOL Component - Part A, Credit
Component - Part B, and Institutional Component - Part C.
10.   The creation of an enabling environment for private mining investment, aside from
requiring a sound macro-economic management in a politically stable context, demands an
adequate legal and institutional framework for the administration of the sector. The investors
must be provided with a legal foundation which ensures security of tenure, transparency and
non discretionality in the regulations and procedures, access to the mineral resources, and a
reasonable taxation scheme.



9
11.   The strategy of the COMIBOL Component, after the adjustments introduced by the
fourth amendment, involved the modernization of the operations of COMIBOL by transferring
all operational and investment responsibilities to the private sector. Therefore COMIBOL
would be restructured to act as a company administering contracts operated by private mining
companies which would hold controlling interests in the operations. COMIBOL would no
longer operate any mine independently nor would it hold majority positions in any operation.
12.   The Credit Component sought to increase sources of funding for investment in the
medium and small-scale mining sectors and cooperatives by channeling funds through the
commercial banks. As mentioned in para. 7, this component was reduced in the fourth
amendment and subsequently cancelled in the fifth amendment when it was concluded that the
lack of demand for credit was caused by legal and institutional barriers, such as insecure title
and lack of colateral, and not by the lack of specialized credit lines. These issues were
addressed in the new Mining Code.
13.   The Institutional Component aimed at strengthening and modernizing the PMIs in
order to: i) improve their technical, financial and managerial capacity; ii) ensure adequate
administration of the mineral rights; iii) generate reliable geological-mining infornation; and
iv) introduce environmental management to the mining sector.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Achievements with sector-wide impact
14.   One of the principal achievements of the MSRP has been the redefinition of the role of
the State in the mining sector so that it is limited to serving as a regulator and supervisor,
leaving exploration activities and mining production to the private sector. This new assignment
of responsibilities is reflected in the figures for both investment and production. As shown in
Table I, below, private investment in exploration, which was insignificant in 1990, had risen to
$39 million by 1996. During the same period, total annual private investment, for both
exploration and mine development, in the sector rose from $21 million to $102 million.



10
Table I: Private and State Investments in Mining Exploration and Production
Year         Total               State'                       Private Sector
Investment       Total Investment
MUS$         MUS$           %           Total         %        Exploration
MUS$                     MUS$
1985             21.6          16.8        77.8            4.8       22.2
1986              13.5          5.0        37.0            8.5       63.0
1987             23.9          10.1        42.3           13.8       57.7
1988             42.2          27.2        64.5           15.0       35.5
1989             43.6          33.7        77.3            9.9       22.7
1990              50.5         29.5        58.4           21.0       41.6
1991             64.3           15.3       23.8           49.0       76.2
1992             124.7          9.9         7.9          114.8       92.1
1993             24.8           3.6        14.5          21.2        85.5
1994             72.1           9.0        12.5           63.1       87.5          15.0
1995             119.1          4.4         3.7          114.7       96.3         34.0
1996             106.1          4.0         3.8          102.1       96.2         39.0
Source: Secretaria Nacional de Minerfa, Direcci6n de Anilisis de Politica Sectorial, 1997.
Table II shows that production by the private sector rose from 47% of the total value of mining
production in 1985 to 93% of total value in 1996. With the completion of the capitalization!
privatization program of EMV, tentatively scheduled to be complete by the end of 1998, 100%
of the mining production of Bolivia will be in the hands of the private sector.
Table II: Value of Mining Production (concentrates)
(millions of US$)
Year   State owned operations     Private sector        TOTAL
MUS$          %    MUS$             %            MUS$
1984         211.4       57.3      157.5       42.7            368.9
1985          151.7      53.4      132.4       46.6           284.1
1986          34.5       25.2      102.4       74.8            136.9
1987           15.8       8.0      180.8       92.0            196.6
1988          50.1       16.7      249.2       83.3           299.3
1989           89.0      22.7      302.8       77.3           391.8
1990          101.5      24.7      309.9       75.3           411.4
1991          99.7       28.1      255.6       71.9           355.3
1992           83.5      21.1      312.8       78.9            396.3
1993          57.8       14.1      350.7       85.9           408.5
1994          39.2        9.0      397.8       91.0           437.0
1995          35.0        6.8      480.9       93.2            515.9
1996          31.5        6.6      448.7       93.4           480.2
Source: Secretaria Nacional de Mineria, Direcci6n de Analisis de Politica Sectorial, 1997
There are no statistics available for exploration investments by the State. Rough estimates indicate
investment of about US$I to 2 million/year in exploration up to 1992.



11
15.   The new Mining Code, enacted in March 1997 with support from the MSRP,
complemented the political and economic stability achieved in Bolivia and assured the
consolidation and expansion of foreign investment in Bolivian mining. The new Code grants
legal security to mining concessionaires and establishes transparent and quick procedures for
the granting of concessions. Additionally, the new Code ensures the access of the investor to
mineral resources, eliminates barriers to access to credit for mining enterprises, and defines the
environmental responsibilities of mining operations.
16.   The improved investment climate has already resulted in two additional major
achievements: the diversification of Bolivia's mineral production and the commencement of
exploration in previously unexplored areas. Investors have recognized Bolivia's potential for
new metal deposits and made important progress in the production of gold and base metals.
Intense exploration and development efforts in western Bolivia have resulted in important
growth in zinc and silver production. Furthermore, exploration targets generated by recent
airborne geophysical studies, financed under the MSRP, aroused the interest of mining
companies regarding the gold and base metals potential in eastern Bolivia, as well as the
potential for diamonds, a previously unknown commodity in the country. More than 15
companies were exploring in eastern Bolivia in 1996, compared to 4 in 1990. Bolivia, a
country known for its traditional underground tin mining, is now considered to have significant
potential for the exploration, and subsequent production, of diverse minerals by a high
technology, large-scale mining industry. The rapid increase in the number of mining
concession applications is shown in Table III.
Table III: Evolution of mining concessions applications
Year                       1993         1994         1995       1996
Total                       467          940         1145       1430
Traditional mining areas    467          795         1106       1159
Eastern Bolivia               0          145           39        271
Source: SETMIN Servicio Tcnico de Minas, 1997.
Achievements of the Components
Part A - COMIBOL Component
17.   Part "A" accomplished its objective of transforming COMIBOL from a mining
company with operational and investment responsibilities into an entity responsible for the
administration of contracts. COMIBOL has attracted significant private investment for the
modernization and operation of its mining assets and will have transferred all its operational
responsibilities to the private sector by mid 1998,. The company has also made significant
achievements in the field of environmental management. The main achievements of the
COMIBOL Component are:
a) COMIBOL has made considerable progress in its withdrawal from productive
activities, in line with the new role of the State in the mining sector. To date, 24



12
Lease or Joint Venture contracts involving investments estimated to total $140
million have been signed for the exploration and exploitation of the mining
properties of COMIBOL.
b) A reformulated COMIBOL, with new corporate objectives, was established to
assume the responsibility for the administration of contracts with the private sector.
Personnel were reduced from 6400 employees at project effectiveness to 1400 at
project closing.   This number will be reduced to less than 60 workers upon
completion of the EMV capitalization/privatization and the transfer of the Huanuni
and Colquiri mines to the private sector.
c) The new COMIBOL has achieved financial equilibrium and reversed a long history
of losses as shown below in Table IV.
d) COMIBOL has implemented computerized financial information systems which
include accounting and contract control systems. These instruments provide
reliable, detailed information on the economic-financial situation of the company.
The introduction of these systems resulted, for the first time in over thirty years, in
a favorable opinion of COMIBOL's Financial Statements for 1996 by international
auditors. Such opinion certifies the financial reorganization of the company.
e) A  total of 28 environmental audits of COMIBOL's mining and industrial
operations were completed to support the transfer of operational responsibilities to
the private sector. These audits allow for a clear definition of environmental
responsibilities in contracts signed with the private sector, a proper evaluation of
COMIBOL's responsibilities regarding the environmental liabilities caused by its
former activities, and the prioritization of COMIBOL's environmental clean-up
activities to be undertaken as a part of the Environmental, Industry & Mining
Project (EIMP) financed by the IDA. The resulting environmental management
program associated with the transfer of operational responsibilities from
COMIBOL to the private sector is the first of its kind and has established a model
for future privatizations elsewhere.
Table IV: Summary of COMIBOL Key Statistics
Year        Net Sales     Net Profit    Price of Tin    Employees   Production
(millions of USD)    (Losses)  (US$ per lb)                Centers
(millions of USD)
1985              136.2        (52.8)         5.28          26,895         26
1986               51.7        (200.1)        2.55          10,877         23
1990              160.9        (23.4)         2.81          6,376           10
1996               19.1         (0.1)         2.79          1479            4
1997 (Jan-Jun)     9.0           0.5          2.81          1444            2



13
Part B - Credit Component
18.   Although the amount disbursed in this Component was less than initially allocated, as
only one subloan for SDR 180,000 actually disbursed, the project made an important
contribution to improving the access to credit of small and medium private miners, through the
removal of legal barriers and the support to institutional adjustments. The identification of the
legal constraints and the information obtained on the credit institutions and facilities available
to the mining sector resulted in corrective action outside the scope of a traditional credit line
but within the scope of the overall Project objectives.
a) The new Mining Code took into account the legal barriers preventing small miners
from qualifying for credit from the commercial banks. The new Code provides for the
use of mining concessions as collateral for credit, thereby creating a legal basis for the
seizure of the mining concession and associated installations in the event of default.
b) The MSRP contributed to the closure of the Mining Exploration Fund (FONEM) and
the Mining Bank (BAMIN). Both institutions had granted subsidized credit to the
sector including non credit-worthy mining companies. In this way the MSRP
contributed to the reform of the Bolivian financial sector.
Institutional Component, Part C
19.   The Institutional Component accomplished its objectives satisfactorily. These were: (i)
the implementation of the Mining Cadaster (SETMIN) which is providing Bolivia with an up-
to-date management of the mining rights; (ii) the generation and unrestricted dissemination of
modem and reliable basic geological information through the modernization of the National
Geological and Mining Survey of Bolivia (SERGEOMIN) and closure and privatization of
geo-services of SERGEOMIN; (iii) the restructuring of the National Mining Secretariat
(SNM); and (iv) the promotion and implementation of environmental management in the
mining sector.
20.   The major achievements are:
a) SETMIN, responsible for the national mining cadaster, has introduced computerized
geographical positioning systems and procedures which provide the technical base for
the required security of tenure of mining concessions, including (i) a complementary
geodetic network comprising 411 points; (ii) a pre-register of approximately 60,000
existing concessions, covering an area of 120,000 km2; and iii) initiated the preparation
of the definitive cadaster of active concessions which should be finalized in 4 years2.
2 An estimated 20,000 mining concessions are currently valid. The figure will be adjusted on December 31, 1997 according
to the criteria defined by the new Mining Code.



14
b) SERGEOMIN, the national geological survey, has been restructured to provide basic
geological information, including:
* A substantive start on the National Geological Map with the production of 54
geological mapsheets, covering 108,000 kin2 or 23% of the total potential mining
area in the Andean Cordilleras and the Altiplano. Available geological data in the
Andean Cordillera provided by SERGEOMIN now covers 218,000 km2.
* Thematic Maps including memoires and Regional Evaluations of Mineral
Resources, covering 207,000 km2. This work generated valuable information
principally on the non-traditional mining provinces of the Cordilleras.
* Airborne geophysical and geochemical data and maps were completed in the
Precambrian regions of the lowlands of eastern Bolivia, covering 100,140 km2 of a
total area of 270,000 km2. The results of this work stimulated and supported the
substantial expansion of mining activities in a region of great potential.
*  Data and maps with base-line environmental information on a regional scale
covering some 40,000 km2 of the Oruro region were completed.
c) The information generated by all PMIs is compiled by the National Mining Information
System (SIMN) which was implemented under the MSRP. The SIMN also administers
the network systems and data bases of the sector.
d) The units of the PMIs which offered geo-services (chemical and metallurgical
laboratories and drilling) were closed.
e) The SNM was restructured with the establishment of i) The Sector Analysis Office,
responsible for the design of policies and regulations for the sector, and the evaluation
of their impact on the development of the sector; and ii) The Environmental Office
which provides a regulatory and monitoring inter-phase between the mining sector and
public environmental authorities.
The project supported the introduction of mining environmental policies, regulations
and environmental management systems. With Swedish co-financing, a Sector
Environmental Assessment (SEA) was conducted which produced a diagnosis of the
environmental situation in the Bolivian mining and industrial sectors, and proposed a
plan of action. This plan served as a basis for the design of the Environment, Industry
and Mining Project (EIMP) supported by IDA Credit 2805-BO. Also, the following
actions, recommended by the SEA, were carried out under the MSRP:
* Environmental audits of the operations of COMIBOL as the basis for the
contractual definition of the allocation of environmental responsibilities between
the private investor and COMIBOL in joint venture contracts or leases;
* The outline of a system to define priorities for the implementation of remediation
measures for the identified liabilities at COMIBOL properties, and of an
environmental management plan for COMIBOL;
* The execution of a pilot project in the Oruro region (PPO) aimed at the gathering of
base line information to be used as a basis for the development of systematic
monitoring on a national scale and for the setting-up of a Mining Environmental
Information System (MEIS). This pilot study is being used as a model for the
realization of similar programs in Argentina, Ecuador and Peru.



15
The setting-up of a Mining and Environmental Department within SERGEOMIN,
responsible principally for the carrying out of regional environmental assessments
and monitoring, and the maintenance of the MEIS.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
21.   Based on the achievements described in the previous section, the project can be
considered as satisfactory. This result was obtained despite: i) delays in the execution because
of governmental changes, and ii) periods of political indecision in the implementation of
reforms. The delays resulted in the need to extend the project closure for two years. The
specific factors which affected the implementation of the project are detailed as follows:
Factors Subject to Government Control
22.   Lack of political will in the period 1989-1992, to restructure and reduce the
involvement of the state as an operator and investor in the mining sector. This resulted in the
suspension of Credit from February to December 1992.
23.   Slow implementation of reforms after August 1993. This is explained in part by the
scope and complexity of the reforms proposed in the program. The lengthy preparatory work
and difficult negotiations with the stakeholders affected the implementation.
24.   Unclear definition of responsibilities and inadequate coordination between the
Ministries of Economic Development and Capitalization caused poor handling of the mining
labor unions' opposition to capitalization and privatization. At the same time, the political
priority given to the state petroleum company (YPFB) delayed the bidding for the
capitalization of EMV and joint venture/ leasing of the Huanuni and Colquiri mines. Bidding
was originally to be finalized in December 1995 but did not take place until June 1997, after
the government had been voted out of office. No bids were submitted.
25.   Delays by the Executive Power in the formulation of the final draft and presentation to
Congress of the new Mining Code and other regulations required to put the mining reforms
into effect.
Factors Subject to Control of the Implementation Agencies
26.   The insufficient managerial and professional capacity of the executing agencies
resulted in delays in procurement and in the contracting of consultants and institutional
services, especially for the financial audits. This problem was particularly acute during the
initial stages of the project.



16
27.   The restructuring of the PMIs took considerably longer than initially planned because
of internal resistance by affected groups.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The new Mining Code has established the basis for the sustainability of the project.
Private investment is now the engine of sector growth. A modem public administration of the
sector should ensure the continuity of a private-sector-led mining industry by enforcing the
security of tenure, clarity and transparency and open access to the mineral resources
established by the Mining Code.
29.   The new Code clearly defines the role of COMIBOL as a state institution responsible
only for the administration of contracts signed with and operated by the private sector. It
establishes that COMIBOL must transfer its mining concessions to the private sector by public
bidding. Should the second invitation to bid for a property be unsuccessful, the concession
will be returned to the State. To carry out its new functions, COMIBOL utilizes modem
systems for its financial area and for the processing and control of the contracts. COMIBOL's
financial sustainability is guaranteed by the income generated by its joint venture and lease
contracts. The Government will have to ensure compliance with the new Code which may be
politically challenging.
30.   The non termination of the restructuring of COMIBOL, during the period of the
execution of the project, could have a negative impact on the sustainability of the project. The
company still operates the Huanuni and Colquiri mines and has numerous non-mining assets
which must be transferred to the private sector. This needs to be taken care of as soon as
possible in order to avoid maintaining an administrative structure for this sole purpose. The
transfer of COMIBOL's economic surplus to the National General Treasury must also be
clearly established.
31.   The strengthened and restructured PMIs now rely on trained personnel and state-of-the-
art technology for the elaboration of the appropriate policies in the sector, and for the
acquisition and dissemination of basic information. The financial capacity of these institutions
is guaranteed by earnings from mining surface fees in compliance with the new Code. The
challenge will be for the institutions to retain their trained personnel and the motivation to
fully implement their mandate.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
32.   The performance of IDA in the preparation, appraisal and implementation of the MSRP
can be considered as fully satisfactory. During the preparation of the project, Bank personnel
assisted the Government in identifying the principal obstacles to the development of the sector
which affected COMIBOL, the PMIs and the private sector. In this context, IDA assisted the
Government in defining the scope of the project which would achieve effective



17
implementation of the rehabilitation strategy. During the execution of the project, IDA
provided clear and steadfast guidance in pursuing the project goals, exhibited imagination in
the design of the adjustments of the project strategy and flexibility in adjusting the activities of
the project to the changeful conditions of the country. IDA staff assisted in the reviews of the
new Mining Code, in the design of the TA programs and in the setting of priorities in order to
attain the project objectives.
33.   The judicious application of project conditionality, related to the MSRP and cross
conditionality to fast disbursing credits, such as Structural Adjustment Credits and the
Capitalization Credit, was a key factor in the success of the project. This way, strong and
effective leverage was applied to ensure that project execution remained focused on the
achievements of the project objectives, despite governmental changes and reshuffling of
executive personnel in the public mining institutions.
34.  IDA's main weakness was not to have taken a clear position initially in opposing the
rehabilitation of COMIBOL through state investment. Although the drastic downsizing of
COMIBOL during the preparation of the project showed the strong commitment of the
Government to carry out the reform, previous experience should have suggested that the State
did not have the capacity to fully rehabilitate the company. This was confirmed during the
first year of project execution. The Borrower and the Bank later agreed to modify
COMIBOL's rehabilitation strategy, resulting in delays in the execution of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   Despite temporary disagreements regarding the objectives of the Project, the
performance of the Borrower in the preparation and implementation of the Project was
satisfactory. In the initial stages of project execution, strong discrepancies, between the
Borrower and IDA, arose regarding the role of the state in the sector and the size of
COMIBOL. These disagreements resulted in the suspension of disbursements from February
to December 1992. Apart from this situation, the Borrower was always disposed to execute
the activities of the project.
36.   The main weaknesses of the Borrower were at the managerial level of some executing
agencies, especially in the early stages of project execution, and the delays in decision-making
at the political level. Personnel recruitment in the executing agencies id not always result in the
selection of people with the skills and the commitment to carry to completion the objectives of
the project. The delays in decision-making resulted in the late completion of some of the
principal activities of the project, which weakened the impact of the project in the sector.
37.   The lack of local counterpart funds, at the beginning of the implementation of the
project, delayed the execution of some tasks and the acquisition of assets related to these tasks.



18
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   Although the majority of the principal objectives of the rehabilitation of the Bolivian
mining sector were met, the project outcome is considered to be only as satisfactory in view of
the non completion of the COMIBOL restructuring and of the poor performance of the Credit
Component. The impact of the reforms supported by the project is impressive: private
investment in exploration, which was insignificant in 1989, reached US$39 million in 1996,
and total private mining investment during the same period soared from US$10 million to
US$102 million annually. Because of the long maturity period of the mining projects (5-10
years) the impact of the project has not yet had a significant impact on the total value of
mining production of Bolivia. Most production is now in the hands of the private sector.
Continued growth of the sector is expected in the near and medium term future, as the above
private investment brings additional capacity into production. The stability of the legal-
institutional improvements introduced through the MSRP, provides the base for continued
growth over the long term.
39.   The refocussing and the financial restructuring of COMIBOL have reversed its long
history of losses and have shown possibilities for COMIBOL to make a positive economic
contribution to the development of the country in the short term. Such contribution would
come from its participation in the earnings in those contracts signed with the private sector3.
The functions of COMIBOL are clearly established in the new Mining Code, and preclude its
return to a role in the direct administration of production. Also, about 1 million of hectares of
mining concessions which had been blocked in the past by COMIBOL have now been opened
to private investment through contracts with mining companies or reverted to the State and
been made directly available to interested investors.
40.   The redesign, strengthening and modernization of the PMIs has established an adequate
institutional framework for the State to carry out its newly defined functions. The activities of
the PMIs are concentrated on regulation and fiscalization, the effective administration of
mining rights, environmental protection, and the provision of basic geological-mining
information. Commercial services, mining exploration and exploitation are now private sector
activities. In this context, IDA continues to support the newly defined role of the state in the
mining sector with the Environment Industry and Mining Project, Credit 2805-BO which, as
discussed in para. 20, was designed on the basis of information obtained from the Sector
Environmental Assessment and the Oruro Pilot Project, undertaken under the MSRP.
3 For example, the different contracts with private companies would generate an estimated income to COMIBOL of 13.5
MUSD in 2000 and of 16.0 MUSD in 2002 of which 8.0 MUSD and 11.0 MUSD would be transferred to the National
Treasury.



19
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.   The stability of the present legal-institutional framework is essential to the achievement
of a competitive, sustainable, modem mining industry, and the continued growth of the sector.
The new Mining Code, the redesign of the PMIs and the restructuring of COMIBOL have
created an environment for the development of the mining sector through private investment.
Thus, while the MSRP has established the foundations for the future growth of the sector,
sustainability will depend largely on the continuity of the implemented reforms.
42.   The Borrower's plan for the operative stage of the project seeks to consolidate the
reformed structure to ensure its sustainability. This requires the following:
a) COMIBOL must conclude the implementation of its new structure by the end of 1998.
Priority must be given to concluding the capitalization or privatization of EMV and the
transfer to the private sector of the Huanuni and Colquiri mines, and to maintaining a
reduced, select team of highly-motivated, qualified professionals. All mining and non
mining assets should be transferred by June 1999, through contracts, sales or
liquidation. All proceeds resulting from joint ventures and leases should be transferred
to the National Treasury (TGN).
b) The SNM should concentrate on maintaining its institutional capacity to formulate
coherent policies and regulations for the sector and to fiscalize its application.
c) SETMIvN should consolidate its structure, enacting its bylaws and its internal
regulations, and maintaining a staff with the required technical skills and experience.
The mining cadastre should be concluded by mid-1999 and should thereafter be
permanently maintained throughout the country.
d) SERGEOMIN should finalize the implementation of its restructuring by concluding the
privatization of its laboratories, enacting its new bylaws and putting in operation its
new financial-accounting systems. Annual work programs should continue in line with
the one implemented during the execution of the MSRP and should include five years
objectives (to 2002) for, inter alia, the provision of data over an additional area of at
least 60,000 km2 for basic geological information, over at least 130,000 km2 for
thematic inforrnation and at least over two basins (the Potosi and the Pilcarnayo basins)
for base-line environmental information.
43.   Considering the importance of the mining sector in the Bolivian economy, it is strongly
recommended that the Bank maintain its mining policy dialogue with the Government after the
closing of the Credit.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.   The comprehensive nature of the project, which addressed the legal, institutional,
environmental and privatization reforms of the sector, was fundamental to the
achievement of its objectives. The different components of the mining sector are closely



20
related, hence deficiencies in one segment of the sector affect the others. For this reason, the
stability of sectoral reforms require a holistic approach in their design.
45.   Political and social factors play a major role in projects aimed at the privatization of
state-owned companies. These factors should not be underestimated:
*  Many of the delays during the restructuring of COMIBOL, were caused by strong
political and social opposition from the labor unions. Attention should be given from
the outset to the dissemination of project objectives, among stakeholders.
*  The Borrower appointed some authorities which opposed the participation of the
private sector in COMIBOL's operations. Care should be taken to ensure the
committment of the authorities to the objectives of the Government in the sector.
*  To a lesser extent, the same lessons can be applied to the restructuring of the PMIs.
46.   Well-designed credit conditionality and cross conditionality with fast disbursing
adjustment credits are useful instruments to provide leverage in "teeth poor" technical
assistance projects. Conditionality included in a SAC and in the Capitalization Credit helped
keep the MSRP execution focused on project objectives and avoided deviations originated by
changes of Government or key executives. Sectoral restructuring processes often imply the
need for politically difficult decisions, which require the total commitment of the authority for
its successful implementation. In such cases, the strong credit conditionality could ensure the
compliance of the Borrower with agreements in the DCA..
48.   The timetable of project execution was affected by delays in the contracting of
consultancy services and procurement procedures because the personnel of the executing
agencies were unfamiliar with the World Bank procurement regulations. Early systematic
training of personnel would have reduced the delays significantly.
49.   The continuity of qualified personnel in the executing agencies and of the Project
Coordination Units was fundamental to the success of the project. After an uncertain
beginning, the Borrower and IDA agreed on a new strategy for the project which was
formalized by the fourth amendment. Since December 1992, the more stable context facilitated
the execution of the reforms and of the execution of the project.
50.   The continuity and the strong sector experience of Bank staff in charge of project
management and supervision has been a key factor in establishing a consistent policy and
in engaging the Government and the executing agencies in an open policy dialogue, which
considerably helped in maintaining the focus on the achievement of the project objectives.
51.   The presence of international consultants committed to the objectives of the
project who were based in La Paz and assumed shared responsibilities in its execution and
results, contributed significantly to the achievements of the objectives. The consultants
played a major role in: i) maintaining clear guidelines in the reform of the PMIs (particularly
in the first phase of the project) and ii) improving the quality of project management.



21
52.   The integration of restructuring and technical components in the strengthening of
the PMIs has been key to their success by ensuring a strong connection between the
development of a functional organization and its products.
Felix Remny /Gotthard Walser
M:\BOLIV\ICR\4MSRP.DOC
December 16, 1997



22
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table.4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A: Achievement of Objectives   Substantial  Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
(4)           (4)           (i)            (4)
Macro policies                  D              D               D     lii
Sector policies                                            FI  1E1E
Financial objectives           E31               i           D
Institutional development                     El             D             El
Physical objectives               i              I                         El1
Poverty reduction              EE                              D     lii
Gender issues                                  D               Dl        ii
Other social objectives         El             D               D            iE
Environmental objectives                       D             D             El
Public sector management                      El               D       E    l
Private sector development    E              El             D             EL
Other (specify)                 EL             D             D              D]



23
B. Project sustainibility                  Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
B O
C. Bank performance                        Hily         Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                               B              E                B
Preparation assistance and Appraisal         B               B1              B
Supervision                                                  B               B E
D. Borrower performance                    Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Project preparation                           B              E               B
Implementation                               B                               BlC
Covenant compliance                          B              E                B
Operation (if applicable)                      Bll                           B[
E. Assessment of outcome         Highly       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory       Highly
satisfactory                                     unsatisfact
ory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                               Purpose                   Year of    Status
l                                        l approval
Preceding operations:
1. Cr. 455-BO and Ln. 1290-BO -   Credit to medium-size mines, survey of small    1974    Closed
Banco Industrial S.A.           mines and technical assistance program              1981
2. Cr. 1331 -BO - Small-scale   Financial and technical support to small scale  1976    Closed
Mining Development Project      miners                                              1982
3. Cr. 940-BO - National Mineral   Development of mineral exploration capacity  1979    Closed
Exploration Fund Project       in Bolivia                                           1988
4. Cr. 1703-BO - Reconstruction    Reactivation of exports through financing  1986    Closed
Import Credit Project (RIC I)   priority imported equipment, spare parts and        1990
other inputs for i.a. the mining sector.
.5. Cr. 1828-BO - Second        Financing to restore economic growth        1987    Closed



24
Reconstruction Import Credit  including support to sector action programs         1992
Project (RIC II)               (mining and others)
Following operations:
1. Cr. 2298-BO - Structural    Consolidation of economic stabilization   1991    Closed
Adjustment Credit                                                                 1995
2. Cr. 2761-BO - Capitalization  Capitalization of main Bolivian state owned  1995    Active
Program                        enterprises
3. Cr. 2805-BO - Environmental    Continued development of environmental  1996    Active
Industry and Mining Project    regulations, remediation of contamination
from state mining activities
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                   November 10, 1986
Preparation                                                  November 3, 1987
Appraisal                                                    June 27, 1988
Negotiation                                                  April 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                 April 1989
Board presentation                                           May 11, 1989
Signing                                                      August 4, 1989
Effectiveness        -                 October 1989          June 14, 1990
First amendment                                              June 14, 1990
Second amendment                                             February 8, 1991
Third amendment                                              April 5, 1991
Midterm review (if applicable)         N/A                   N/A
Fourth amendment                                             April 7, 1993
Fifth amendment                                              May 20, 1996
Sixth amendment                                              January 27, 1997
Project completion                     December 31, 1994     December 31, 1996
Credit closing                         June 30, 1995        June 30, 1997



25
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate              6.0      14.0    23.0    28.0    33.0    35.0
Actual                          0.0      2.7      5.0      7.0     10.4    16.3    23.9    32.4
Actual as % of estimate          0       19.3    21.7    25.0    31.5    46.6    68.3    92.4
Date of final disbursement                                                                   8/26/97
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not defined with client at the time the project was designed and negotiated, since no
standard procedure at the time
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not defined with client at the time the project was designed and negotiated, since no
standard procedure at the time
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                     Purpose as defined             Status             Impact of study 
at appraisal/redefined
Component A - COMIBOL
A I Technical and Economical    Up-dating of ore reserves and operation    Completed  Detailed base line study used as
Study of the Huanuni Mine -  status of the mine and technical and             background information for the
Swedish Geological, 1992   economic evaluation of development                  PRE study
options
A2 Technical and Economical    Up-dating of ore reserves and operation    Completed  Detailed base line study used as
Study of the Colquiri Mine -  status of the mine and technical and             background inforrnation for the
Swedish Geological, 1992   economic evaluation of development                 PRE study
options
A3 Technical and Economical    Up-dating of ore reserves and operation    Completed  Used by COMIBOL for the bidding
Study of the Bolivar Mine -   status of the mine and technical and            of the mine and the negotiation of
Swedish Geological, 1992   economic evaluation of development                 the JV contract with COMSUR.
options
A4 Technical and Economical    Up-dating of ore reserves and operation    Completed  Detailed base line study used as
Study of the San Vicente Mine status of the mine and technical and             background information for the
- Swedish Geological, 1992   economic evaluation of development                PRE study
options



26
A5 Technical and Economical    Up-dating of ore reserves and operation    Completed  Detailed base line study used as
Study of the Unificada Mine - status of the mine and technical and         background information for the
Swedish Geological, 1992    economic evaluation of development             PRE study
options
A6 Economic Restructuring     Legal, institutional, technical and  Completed  Used by the GOB for the
Program (PRE) - Base Study' economic evaluation studies and                restructuring of COMIBOL and the
Pincock, Allen & Holt, 1993. recommendations for the planning of           transfer of operations to the private
transfer of COMIBOL operations and non           sector
nationalized properties to the private
sector
A7 Technical and Economic     Evaluation of the technological and  Completed  Background document for the
Evaluation of the Vinto Tin   business status of the plant and             decision to capitalize the Vinto tin
Smelter - Price, 1994     recommendations to improve its                   smelter and for the support of the
competitiveness and attractiveness for           MSRP to this process.
private investment
A8 Karachipampa Smelter       Evaluation of the technological and  Completed  Background document for the
Feasibility Study - Boliden,   business status of the plant and            bidding of the Karachipampa
1994.                     recommendations to improve its                   smelter.
competitiveness and attractiveness for
private investment
A9 Audit of Ore Reserves -    Certification of ore reserves of the mining  Completed  Background technical document for
Pincock, Allen & Holt, 1995  operations to be transferred to the private   the bidding of COMIBOL mines.
sector
AlO Metallurgical Test Studies -   Evaluation of options to produce  Completed  Background technical document for
San Jose Mine - Ausmelt, 1995 concentrates or alloys with low content of   the bidding of the San Jose mine.
impurities
A 11 Due Diligence Study - Behre & Technical, economic and financial  Completed  Main technical background
Dolbear, 1995.            assessment of COMIBOL mining assets              document for the bidding of
COMIBOL mining assets
12Capitalization and privatization Strategy for the capitalization of the  Completed  Transfer of most COMIBOL
of COMIBOL mining assets - Vinto, Huanuni and Colquiri package and         mining assets to the private sector
N.M. Rothschild & Sons, Ltd., the transfer to the private sector of other
1995/96 (Investment Bank)   COMIBOL operations.
13 Environmental and Promotion Analysis of COMIBOL legal          Completed  Drafting of standard conditions
of Private Sector Participation responsabilites regarding environmental    included in operations/transfer
in the Mining Sector of Bolivia damages related to the transfer of         contracts
- Faith Halter, 1995      operations and/or properties to the private
sector
A14Socio-economic evaluation of Analisis of the socio-economic situation    Completed  Background document for the
COMIBOL mining sites -    at the COMIBOL mining sites and                  transfer of COMIBOL operations to
Universidad Catolica      evaluation of impscts of the privatization       the private sector
Boliviana, 1996           process on the workers and communities
15 Environmental Audit of the   Environmental impacts caused by the  Completed  Background document for the
Vinto Smelter - Aerocomp,   smelter operation, definition of pollution     capitalization of Vinto to the
1996                      stocks and flow and recommendations for          private sector and definition of
mitigation measures.                             contractual responsibilities
regarding environmental damages
between the State (COMIBOL) and
the new operator
16 Environmental Audits of  Environmental impacts caused by the   Completed  Background document for the
COMIBOL mining properties - mines, definition of pollution stocks and      transfer of COMIBOL mines and
A.D.I., 1996              flow and recommendations for mitigation          definition of contractual
measures and monitoring.                         responsibilities regarding
environmental damages between



27
the State (COMIBOL) and the new
operator
Al7Environmental Audits of_    Environmental impacts caused by the  Completed  Background document for the
COMIBOL Mining Properties - mines, definition of pollution stocks and      transfer of COMIBOL mines and
Dames & Moore, 1996.      flow and recommendations for mitigation          definition of contractual
measures and monitoring.                         responsibilities regarding
environmental damages between
the State (COMIBOL) and the new
operator
18 Environmental Audits of_    Environmental impacts caused by the  Completed  Background document for the
COMIBOL Mining Properties - mines, definition of pollution stocks and      transfer of COMIBOL mines and
E.R.M., 1996              flow and recommendations for mitigation          definition of contractual
measures and monitoring.                         responsibilities regarding
environmental damages between
the State (COMIBOL) and the new
operator
19Environmental Audit of the   Environmental impacts caused by the  Completed  Background document for the
Cerro Rico Property - Swedish mine, definition of pollution stocks and     transfer the property and definition
Geological A.B., 1996     flow and recommendations for mitigation           of contractual responsibilities
measures and monitoring.                         regarding environmental damages
between the State (COMIBOL) and
the new operator
A20Environmental Audits of_    Environmental impacts caused by the  Completed  Background document for the
COMIBOL Mining Properties - mines, definition of pollution stocks and      transfer of COMIBOL mines and
Dames & Moore, 1997.      flow and recommendations for mitigation           definition of contractual
measures and monitoring.                         responsibilities regarding
environmental damages between
the State (COMIBOL) and the new
operator
A21 COMIBOL non-mining assets - Inventory and analisis of the legal status    Completed  Background document for the sale
Moreno Baldivieso, 1996.    of COMIBOL non-mining assets, with             and/or liquidation of non-mining
recommendations                                  assets
A22Assessment of COMIBOL non- Estimates of the market value of     Completed  Background document for the sale
mining assets - CPM       COMIBOL non-mining assets                         and/or liquidation of non-mining
Comandina                                                                   assets
A23 Assessment of materials within Estimate of the value of all materials in    Completed  Background document for the
Vinto's processing flowsheet - course of processing at the plant           transfer of Vinto
Piret Stolberg, 1996
A24COMIBOL and Vinto Legal  Assessment of COMIBOL and Vinto        Completed  Background study for the
Status - Stikeman Elliot, 1996 legal status with respect to the            capitalization/privatization process
capitalization, transfer and/or
privatization of mining assets
A25 COMIBOL Documentation   Inventory, analysis and re-ordering of  Completed  Set-up of a modem and
Center - Geotecnica, 1996    COMIBOL technical documentation                computerized documentation center
Component B - Credit
Bl Javier Nogales, 1994       Assessment of barriers to credit for small  Completed  Development of new strategies and
and medium-scale miners in Bolivia;              cancelation of the credit component
proposals for solutions.                         of the project.



28
Component C - Institutional
Cl Geology and Mineral         Assessment of the mineral potential of  Completed  Increased exploration works in
Resources of the Altiplano and Western Bolivia                               Western Bolivia
Western Cordillera -
GEOBOL/ USGS, 1992
C2 Airborne Geophysical Survey Airborne magnetic and radiometric     Completed  Increased exploration in the
of the San Ramon Area -    survey of 13,000 square kilometers of the         Precambrian area
BGM, 1992                  Precambrian area of Eastern Bolivia
C3 Airborne Geophysical Survey Outline of mineral potential areas    Completed  Increased exploration in the
and Interpretations of Remote                                                Precambrian area
Sensing in the San Ramon Area
- Geobol/Swedish Geological
AB, 1993
4 Lead and Silver Potential of the Assessment of the lead and silver  Completed  Quantified assessment of lead and
Potosi Area - Geobol/BGR,   potential of the Eastern Cordillera, as          silver resources.
1993                       source of mineral for the Karachipampa
smelter
C5 National Geological Map     Basic regional geological maps at scale    Continuing  Increased exploration, particularly
Series - Sergeomin/Swedish   1:100,000 (54 maps published during             in non tradtional mining areas.
Geological AB              project time)
6 National Mineral resources    Systematic assessment of mineral    Continuing  Increased exploration, particularly
Thematic Serie -           resources including thematic maps at              in non tradtional mining areas.
Sergeomin/Swedish Geological scale 1:250,000 and a descriptive
AB                         memoire (10 maps published during
project time)
7 Airborne Geophysical Survey Airborne magnetic and radiometric     Completed  Increased exploration, particularly
over selected areas of Eastern  survey of 87,000 square kilometers of the    in non tradtional mining areas.
Bolivia - Sander Geophysics  Precambrian area of Eastern Bolivia
Ltd, 1994 - 1996           (90% of mining potential areas of this
region).
8 Sector Environmental       Diagnostic of the environmental situation   Completed  Background study for the design of
Assessment - SENMA/Swedish in the Bolivian mining and industrial             the Environmental, Industry and
Geological AB, 1993        sectors                                           Mining Project (EIMP)
C9 Environmental Management  Pilot project aiming at gathering regional   Completed  Setting-up of a mining and
Master Plan for the Oruro Area base line information to be used as a basis   Environmental Department within
- Sergeomin/Swedish        for the development of systematic                 Sergeomin; development of an
Geological AB, 1997        monitoring on a national scale                    Environmental Information and
Management System; identification
of priorities for mitigation measures
to be implemented under the EIMP



29
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate        4th Amendment                   Actual
(US$M)                   (USSM)                     (US$M)
A. COMIBOL                        Foreign   Local  Total   Foreign   Local   Total  Foreign    Local       Total
Initial Assistance: Upgrading of  38.1    32.7   70.8       32.7     5.3    38.0      32.7      5.3      38.0
Mines and Plant Facilities
Transfer of Mining Operations &                              8.0     0.6     8.6       8.1      1.8     9,91)
Properties
Implement Holding                                            1.1     1.9     3.0       2.4      3.9     6.32)
Private Investment, JV                                      42.8    10.7    53.5    123.2      30.8   154.03)
Labor Rationalization                                               57.0    57.0              101.9   101.94)
Training Program                    1.8     0.3    2.1
Organization and Management         2.9     1.4    4.3
Strengthening
Joint Ventures Promotion            5.6     6.8   12.4
PPF Refinancing                     1.0            1.0       1.0             1.0       1.0                1.0
Not Allocated                                                0.3     0.3     0.6
Subtotal    49.4    41.2   90.6      85.8    75.6   161.4    167.4    143.7      311.1
B. CREDIT COMPONENT                    5.3     5.0   10.3       1.8     1.7     3.5       0.3                0.3
C. INSTITUTIONAL
COMPONENT
MMM/SNM                             1.7     0.2    1.9       3.8     3.9     7.7       4.0      4.2       8.2
DICISMIN                                                             0.6     0.6                0.4       0.4
GEOBOL/SERGEOMIN                    2.7     2.4    5.1      21.2     8.0    29.2      22.9      8.9      31.8
IIMM                                0.8     1.1    1.9       1.5     1.6     3.1       1.0      1.1       2.1
SENCAM/SETMIN                       3.0     3.8    6.8       1.0     1.4     2.4       1.3      1.8       3.1
BAMIN                               0.4     0.1    0.5
PPF Refinancing                     0.3            0.3       0.3             0.3       0.3                0.3
Not Allocated                                                0.3     0.3     0.6
Subtotal     8.9     7.6   16.5      28.1    15.8    43.9      29.5     16.4      45.9
Total Project Base Cost            63.6    53.8  117.4    115.7    93.1   208.8    197.2    160.1       357.3
Price Contingencies                 1.9     1.6    3.5       0.9     0.7     1.6
Physical Contingencies              3.2     2.7    5.9       2.1     1.2     3.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    68.7    58.1  126.8    118.7    95.0   213.7    197.2    160.1       357.3
1) Include. 2.OUS$M JICA + rest. IDA
2) Include. 1.3US$M SIDA + rest IDA
3) Include. 140.OUS$M for COMIBOL mines and 14.OUS$M for the Vinto smelter
4) Include. 21.OUS$M of "extralegal" bonus for Vinto, Huanuni and Colquiri



30
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate        4th Amendment                  Actual
(US$M)                   (US$M)                     (US$M)
Source                              Foreign   Local  Total  Foreign  Local   Total  Foreign  Local        Total
Internal
COMIBOL                                             45.5                      14.8                       35.8
Government                                           1.4                      3.6                         4.6
Mining Companies (Private                            1.5                     10.9                        30.8
Investors)
Banks                                                1.5                      0.0                         0.0
Subtotal                    49.9                      29.3                        71.2
External
IDA                                                 35.0                     35.0                        32.4
Existing Financing Arrangements a)                  10.1                     24.6                        24.6
Cofinanciers b)                                     25.0                     82.2                       103.3
Private Investors                                    6.8                     42.6                       123.2
Subtotal                    76.9                     184.4                       286.1
TOTAL                      126.8                    213.7                        354.9
a) Include IDA1703-BO RIC I, IDA 1828-BO RIC II, KfW, Great Britain Credit and Italian Credit
b) Include for COMIBOL: IDA 2298-BO (SAC), BITS/SIDA, JICA; and for the institutions: BITS/SIDA, TDA, USAID, UNDP,
BGR, Italian Grant and IDB
Comments: The improved legal and institutional environment brought about by the Project caused a strong increase in private
investment in Bolivian mining in general and in COMIBOL in particular, As the scope of the investnents undertaken went far
beyond what was originally foreseen, the Project cost increased substantially. The Project was initially estimated to cost US$126.8
million, to which COMIBOL would contribute US$45.5 million, IDA's credit 2013-BO US$35.0 million, IDA's RIC I and II
US$7.8 million, cofinanciers (official bilateral and multilateral) US$27.3 million, private sector US$8.3 million, local banks US$1.5
million and Govemment US$1.4 million. It is now estimated that Project costs will total US$354.9 million, to which private
investment will contribute US$154.0 million, cofinanciers US$120.1 million, IDA US$40.2 million (US$32.4 million from Cr.
2013-BO, plus US$7.8 million from RIC I and II), COMIBOL US$35.8 million and the Government US$4.6 million.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project has re-established the viability of Bolivian
mining as a major sector within the Bolivian economy. It has accomplished this by redefining the
role of the state and of private enterprise in the sector, by stopping the hemorrhage of COMIBOL's
losses, totalling over US$1,300 million from 1952 to date, by bringing back direct foreign
investment to the sector, and by streamlining and modernizing sector administration. As a
consequence of the policies supported by the MSRP modern, environmentally clean technologies
are begining to be implemented in the traditional mining areas in western Bolivia, new mining
districts are being opened in eastern Bolivia, the sector has begun to diversify away from tin as the
production of gold, silver and zinc has increased sharply. In addition, environmental management
systems have been implemented which are allowing for better monitoring and control of mining
operations.
Mining investment in Bolivia increased 143% during the period of Project execution from
US$43.6 million in 1989 to US$106.1 million in 1996. More importantly, annual private
investment grew ten-fold during the same period, from US$9.9 million to US$102.1 million, while
state investment went down from US$33.7 million to US$4.0 million. Investment in exploration
grew ten-fold during project execution from US$4 million to US$40 million annually; during this



31
period, the private sector which was absent in 1989 invested US$39 million, or 97.5% of the total,
in 1996.
While the increase in the value of mining production during Project execution was only
22%, from US$392 million in 1989 to US$480 million in 1996, during the same period the
production of gold increased by 250%, zinc by 94% and silver by 44%, while tin decreased by 7%.
The participation of the state in mining production continued to decrease from 23% in 1989 to 7%
in 1996. Having accomplished a reasonable degree of sector diversification and increased
participation from private enterprise, significant sector growth is expected over the following
years, as projects now under development start production. Mining projects have long maturity
and production will reflect investment trends over the long run. A forecast of the production
values would be more difficult, given the current uncertainties on future metal prices.
The tax take decreased by 28% from US$ 10.1 million in 1989 (all from ad-valorem
royalties) to US$7.3 million in 1996 ($6.2 million in royalties and $1.1 million in income taxes)
during Project execution. These figures reflect (i) the decrease of the relative importance of an ad-
valorem royalty scheme, which collected most of its taxes from unviable state-owned operations
and the introduction of a result-based taxation, and (ii) the long maturity of mining projects which
results in new projects not yet paying income taxes. The new Mining Code in 1997 phased out the
old royalty scheme and introduced a system including a 25% income tax and an ad-valorem
complementary tax whose rate will be determined by the international prices of mineral
commodities. The productivity of the sector is expected to improve substantially as a consequence
of the current volume of investment and the increased private participation in the sector. Thus, as
profitability increases and as new operations, now under development, come in stream the tax take
should increase substantially.
Sector direct employment decreased by 25%, from 70,400 to 52,600 workers between
1989 and 1996, reflecting the difficulties faced by small mining in the light of low metal prices and
increased environmental awareness and controls, and the latest stages of the reduction in
COMIBOL's workforce. While the long term outlook for employment in mining is positive,
improvements should not be expected in the short term. Furthermore the benefits will accrue to a
different segment than the one affected by these reductions, as the new technologically advanced,
capital intensive operations will employ mostly qualified workers.
The project introduced environmental policies, regulations and management systems to the
mining sector, the benefit of which will be felt when existing operations comply with the norms,
five years after the new standards were enacted. The new Mining Code defined the responsibilities
of mining operations regarding the protection of the enviromnent. This was followed by norms
regulating tailings management and the impact of mining in air and water quality. Environmental
audits of COMIBOL operations constitute the basis for the contractual definition of environmental
responsibilities in the operations transferred to the private sector and provide key information to
define priorities for remediation measures. On the institutional front, the setting-up of the
Environmental Department within SERGEOMIN with responisibility to carry out assessments and
monitoring and maintaining information systems provides for improved monitoring and control of
mining operations.



32
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenant
Agree-      Secton       Covenant    Status     Original     Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
ment                      Class                fulfiilmt.   fulfillmt.
date        date
DCA ARTICLE III Execution of the Project
DCA        3.01 (a)          5        C                                   Commitment of the borrower to the   Fulfilled
objectives of the Project       02/10/90, 02/08/91
24/02/93,31/12/93
DCA        3.01 (b) (1)      13       C                                   Participation of MMM, GEOBOL,   (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
IDM, IIMM, SENCAM in the
Project
DCA        3.01 (b) (ii)     2        C                                  Agreement with agencies of(i) for   Fulfilled, subsidiary
respective obligations and transfer   agreement with MF.
of part of the proceeds         02/10/90, 02/08/91
24/02/93
DCA        3.01 (c)          5        C                                  COMIBOL performance in           Fulfilled
accordance with the CPA
DCA        3.01 (d)          2        C                                  Subsidiary loan agreement to     (Amended 7/4/93)
relend part of the proceeds to  Fulfilled, subsidiary
COMIBOL                         agreement with MF
amended
3
DCA       3.01 (d) (1)       2        C                                  Subsidiary loan agreement        (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
denominated in $us equivalent to    8/6/93
SDR and repaid in $us
DCA       3.01 (d) (ii)      2        C                                  COMIBOL shall pay GOB            (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
commitment and service charge
according to Section 2.04 and 2.05
of DCA
DCA       3.01 (d) (iii)     2        NYD                                COMIBOL shall repay the          Five years grace period
principal amount of subsidiary loan
according to Section 2.07 of DCA
DCA       3.01 (e)           2        C                                  Performance of Central Bank in   Fulfilled through 1996
accordance with CBP
DCA        3.01 (f)          2        C                                  Subsidiary loan agreement to     (Amended 7/4/93)
relend part of the proceeds to  Fulfilled, subsidiary
Central Bank                    agreement with MF of
08/04/89 and 04/07/93
DCA       3.01 (g)           2        C                                  Compliance of subsidiary loan    Fulfilled
agreements
DCA       3.02               13       C                                  Compliance of sections 9.03, 9.04,   Fulfilled
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of General
Conditions by COMIBOL and
Central Bank
DCA        3.03              13       C                                  Procurement of goods, works and    Fulfilled
consultant govemed by provision of
Schedule 3 of DCA
DCA        3.04 (a)          5        C                                  Acquisitions: Valid Contractual  Fulfilled 08/04/89,3
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status
I A;count/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary      C   Complied with            SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement   12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD  Complied after delay     CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people    13 Other                    NC Not complied with         NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                               n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project     10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



33
Agree-      Section      Covenant    Status    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
ment                      Class                fulfillrmt.    fulfillmt.
date        date
Agreements between the          procurement agents
Institutions that will carry out the    selected
project and the procurement agents
for acquisitions
DCA       3.04 (b)           5        C                                  Compliance with obligations      Fulfilled
referred to in 3.04 (a)
DCA       3.05 (a)           2        C                                  GOB should cover all cash deficits   Amended June 14th 199
during COMIBOL's Fiscal year    No longer has priority.
1989
3.05 (c) (d) and (e) redesignated (b), (c) and (d) Amendment of April 7th 1993
DCA       3.05 (b) (i)       5        C         06/30/90                 Reorganization of MMM and        Original 3.05 (c) i)
GEOBOL according to IMP         Fulfilled, DS 22788A, L
de Poder Ejecutivo
DCA        3.05 (b) (ii)     5        C         06/30/90                 Establish IDM and SENCAM         (Amended 7/4/93)
Fulfilled, DS 22788A, I
amended 5 of April 1991
DCA       3.05 (c)           5        C         11/30 of                 GOB should present a training    (Original 3.05 (d)) Fulfill
each fiscal              program (Part C) to be carried out    each fiscal year
year after               during the next year.
1988
DCA       3.05 (d) (i)       5        C         12/31 of                 Progress report on the execution of  (Original 3.05 (e)) Fulfill
each fiscal              the Project (each Feb 15, May 15,
year after               Aug 15 and Nov 15)
1988
DCA        3.05 (d) (ii)      5       C         12/31 of                  Plan of action for the          (Original 3.05 (e))
each fiscal              implementation of the Project    Fulfilled
year after               during following fiscal year,
1988                    reviewed and approved by WB
DCA        3.06 (a)           5       C                                  Appoint and maintain Project     Fulfilled through 1992.
Coordinator in MMM (SNM) for    thereafter both sides agre
the overall supervision of the  not to appoint a General
Project                         Coordinator
DCA       3.06 (b)           5        C                                  Establish and maintain a Project  Fulfilled
Coordination Unit in MMM
(SNM), including Coordinator and
staff
DCA       3.07               13       C                                  Take measures to promote         Fulfilled, Law 1243 date
investment in the mining sector,  April 19t, 1991, and La
legal and taxation framework    1777 dated March 17,*
1997
DCA       3.08 (i)           5        C                                  Take all necessary actions to    Fulfilled
enable COMIBOL to comply
obligations under sect. 2.09, 4.02,
4.03, 4.04, 4.05
DCA       3.08 (ii)          13       C                                  Take all necessary actions to    Fulfilled, BAMIN closed
enable BAMIN to comply
reestructuring plan
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary      C   Complied with            SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement   12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD  Complied after delay     CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people    13 Other                    NC Not complied with         NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                                n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project      10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced tirough Amendment of 7/4(93



34
Agree-      Section     Covenant    Status    Original      Revised        Description of Covenant            Comments
ment                     Class                fulfillmt.   fulfillmt.
date        date
DCA       3.09 (a)           6       C         06/30/94                 Prepare and submit a national   Fulfilled
environmental protection action
plan for the disposal of solid and
liquid waste generated by mining
activities
DCA       3.09 (b)           6       n/a       06/30/95                 Prepare a follow up report on the    (Amended 7l4/93)
and each                 actions taken and to be taken
year                    regarding the environmental
protection referred in (a)
DCA       3.10               13      CP         12/31/93                Take all necessary measures to   Fulfilled, work in Tasna
enable partners of the Colquiri  initiated on Nov. 93, Cat
mine tailing, Tasna mine and    and Colquiri contracts
Catavi mine tailings contracts to  effective in 95, withdraw
initiate work                   of private parteners in 19
DCA       3.11               5       C         06/30/93                 Take all necessary measures to  (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
12/31/93                ensure start of operations of
DICISMIN and SENCAM
DCA       3.12               5       C         06/30/93                 Appoint and maintain qualified   (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
personnel in DICISMIN and
SENCAM
DCA       3.13 (a)           5       C         06/30/93                 Definition of policies for hiring  (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
personnel, directors, project chiefs   , plans submitted on
and project managers for SNM,   9118/93-10/27/93 not
GEOBOL and IIMM                 satisfactory to WB,
subsequently conicuded
that IIMM should be clos
except for laboratories
which will be privatized
DCA       3.13 (b) (i)       13      C         06/30/93                 GEOBOL should prepare and        (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
submit rationalization plan
DCA       3.13 (b) (ii)      13      C         06/30/93                 GEOBOL should prepare and       (Amended 7/4/93)
submit plan for restructuring   Fulfilled, new structure
services with private participation    SERGEOMIN
DCA       3.13 (c)           13      CD        06/30/93                 I1MM should prepare and submit a   (Amended 7/4/93)
program and a working plan for its   Fulfilled, new structure o
privatization                   SERGEOMIN
DCA       3.13 (d)           13      CD                                 GEOBOL and llMM should carry   (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
out the programs referred to in'  through creation of
3.13 (b) and 3.13 (c)           SERGEOMIN
DCA       3.14               2       CD        06/30/94                 Prepare and fumish a proposal to    (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
ensure sustainability of the mining   through new Mining Cod
sector after completion of the
Project
DCA ARTICLE IV Financial Covenants
DCA       4.01 (a)           2       C                                  GOB shall maintain separate      Fulfilled
records and account adequate to
reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures of Part C of the
Covenant Class:                                                                     Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary     C   Complied with           SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement  12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD  Complied after delay    CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people   13 Other                    NC Not complied with        NYD  Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                              n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project     10 Implementation
(Amended 714/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



35
Agree-      Section      Covenant    Status    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
ment                      Class                fulfillmt.    fulfilimt.
date        date
Project for agencies listed in 3.01
(b) (i)
DCA        4.01 (b) (i)      2        CD        06/30 of                  External auditing of the records  Fulfilled each fiscal year
each fiscal              referred in Section 4.01 (a)
year
DCA        4.01 (b) (ii)     2        CD        06/30 of                  Furnish WB the report of audit  Fulfilled-each fiscal year
each Fiscal              referred in 4.01 (b) (i)
year
DCA        4.01 (b) (iii)    2        C                                   Furnish information WB may      Fulfilled each fiscal year
request conceming records,
accounts and audit report of 4.01
(b) (i)
DCA        4.01 (c) (i)      2        C                                  Maintain in each agency (Section    Fulfilled
3.01) responsible for the carrying
out of Part C records and accounts
reflecting withdrawals from the
Credit
DCA       4.01 (c) (ii)      2        C                                  Ensure that all records, bills,  Fulfilled
receipt and other document
evidencing expenditures are
retained in each agency until at
least one year after audit report has
been submitted to WB
DCA        4.01 (c) (iii)    2        C                                  Enable WB representatives to     Fulfilled
examine records (4.01 (c) (ii))
DCA        4.01 (c) (iv)     2        C                                   Include all records and accounts in   Fulfilled
the annual audit which should
contain a separate opinion about
statements of expenditure,
procedures and intemal controls
regarding withdrawals
DCA: ARTICLE V Remedies of the Association
DCA        5.01 (a)           5       C                                   COMIBOL shall have failed to    No failure through 1997
performed any of its obligations of
CPA
DCA        5.01 (b)          5        C                                  CB shall have failed to performed    No failure through 1997
any of its obligations of CBPA
DCA        5.01 (c)          5        C                                  CB or any Financial Intermediary    No failure through 1997
shall have failed to performed any
of its obligations of CBPA
DCA        5.01 (d)          5        C                                  Situation which shall make       Not arisen through 1997
COMIBOL or CB unable to
perform their respective obligations
DCA        5.01 (e)          13       C                                  Amendment or suspension of Law    Not amended nor
1928 (July 20), Law 9428 (October  suspended through 1997
20, 1970) and D. Law 94440 (Nov.
4, 1970) affecting ability of CB
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary      C   Complied with            SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntaty ressetlement   12 Sectorial rehulatory      CD  Complied after delay    CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people    13 Other                    NC  Not complied with        NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                                n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project      10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



36
Agree-      Section      Covenant    Status    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
ment                      Class                fulfillmt.   fulfillmt.
date        date
DCA        5.01(f)           13       C                                  Amendment ofDS 3196 (Oct. 2,     Suspended 1997, new
1952) affecting ability of      Mining Code substitute
COMIBOL                         3196 and modemize the
legal base of COMIBOL
5.01 (g)          13       C                                  Dissolution or disestablishment of   Not dissolved through 19
COMIBOL or CB
DCA       5.01 (h) (i)       13       C                                  (a) Right to withdraw cancelled or   Not cancelled through 19
(ii)                                                          terminated or (b) Cofinancing
Agreement become due, unless not
caused by failure of the Borrower
DCA        5.01 (i)          13       C                                  GOB have failed to take any or all   Section 3.07 fulfilled
measures referred ton in Sec. 3.07    through 1997
to promote investment
DCA       5.01 (j)           13       C                                  No amendment or suspension of    Not amended nor
DS 7148 (May 7, 1965) affecting    suspended through 1997
ability of COMIBOL
DCA        5.01 (k)          13       C                                  No amendment or suspension of    Not amended nor
DS 21377 (Aug 25, 1986) affecting   suspended through 1997
ability of COMIBOL
DCA        5.01 (1)          13       C                                  DS 23306 should not be amended,   (Amended 7/4/93)
suspended or abrogated          23306 suspended in 1994
replaced by DS 23727 of
11/2/94
DCA        5.01 (m)          13       C                                  DS 23230 and by-laws should not   (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
be amended, suspended or        through 1997
abrogated
DCA        5.02 (a)          13       C                                  Occurance of events of' 5.01 (h) (i)  Not occured through 199
(B) subject to the proviso of ' (h)
(ii)
DCA        5.02 (b)          13       C                                  Occurance of events of' 5.01 (a)  Not occured through 199
(b) (c) (e) or (f) for a period of 60
days after notice
DCA        5.02 (c)          13       C                                  Occurance of events of' 5.01 (g) or  Not occured through 199
(e)
DCA: ARTICLE VI Effective Date
DCA        6.01 (a)          2        C                                  COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan          Fulfilled
Agreement executed
DCA       6.01 (b)           2        C                                  CB Subsidiary Loan Agreement     Fulfilled
executed
DCA        6.01 (c)          2        C                                  Compliance by COMIBOL of Sec    Fulfilled
2.12 (a) of CPA
DCA       6.01 (d)           2        C                                  GOB complied with Sec 3.06 (a) of  Fulfilled
DCA
DCA        6.01 (e)          2        C                                  Effectiveness of the Bilateral   Fulfilled 04/08/89
Cofinancing
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary      C   Complied with            SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement   12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD  Complied after delay     CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people    13 Other                    NC Not complied with         NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                               n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project      10 lmplenentation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



37
Agree-      Section     Covenant    Status    Original      Revised         Description of Covenant           Comments
ment                     Class                fulfillmt.   fulflllmt.
date        date
DCA       6.02 (a)           13      C                                  CPA authorized or ratified and  Fulfilled 04/08/89
legally binding
DCA       6.02 (b)           13      C                                  CBPA authorized or ratified and  Fulfilled 04/08/89
legally binding
DCA       6.02 (c)           13      C                                  COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan         Fulfilled 04/08/89
Agreement authorized or ratified
and legally binding
DCA       6.02 (d)           13      C                                  CB Subsidiary Loan Agreement     Fulfilled 04/0/89
authorized or ratified and legally
binding
DCA       6.03               5       C                                  Compliance of GC 12.04          Fulfilled 07/11/89
DCA       Annex 1(e)         5       C                                  Institutional Component: maintain   (Amended 7/4/93) Satisfi
wage support for 236 persons max.  throughout 1993
DCA       Annex I(i) [       5       C                                  Institutional Component: maintain   (Amended 7/4/93) Satisfi
wage support for 153 persons max.   01/01/94
DCA       Annex 1(g)         5       C                                  Institutional Component: maintain   (Amended 7/4/93)
wage support for 82 persons max.    Satisfied 01/01/95
GENERAL CONDITIONS
GC         12.01 (b)         5       C
GC         12.02 (b)         5       C
CPA ARTICLE 11 Execution of the Project
CPA       2.01               13      C                                  Commitment of COMIBOL to the    Fulfilled
objectives of the project
CPA       2.02               13      C                                  Procurement of goods, works and    Fulfilled
consultant governed by provision of
Section I and 11 of Schedule 3 of
DCA
CPA       2.03               13      C                                  Compliance of sections 9.03, 9.04,   Fulfilled
9.05,9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of General
Conditions by COMIBOL
CPA       2.04               13      C                                  COMIBOL shall enter into the    Fulfilled
COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in accordance with Sec.
3.01 (d) ofDCA
CPA       2.05 (a)           13      C                                  COMIBOL shall exchange view     Fulfilled during
with WB regarding the progress of   Supervision Missions
Part A
CPA       2.05 (b)           13      C                                  COMIBOL shall inform WB of any   Fulfilled
interfering conditions with progress
of Part A
CPA       2.06 (a)           13      C                                  COMIBOL shall establish and      Fulfilled
maintain a project coordination unit
Covenant Class:                                                                     Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    II Sectorial budgetary     C   Complied with           SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement  12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD Complied after delay     CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people   13 Other                    NC Not complied with        NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                              n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project     10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



38
Agree-      Section      Covenant    Status    Original      Revised        Description of Covenant             Comments
ment                      Class                fulfillmt    fulflhlmt.
date        date
CPA        2.06(b)           13       C                                  COMIBOL shall appoint a project   Fulfilled
coordinator
CPA       2.07 (a)           13       CD        06/30/93                 Furnish TOR and time schedule for   Fulfilled April 1994
exploration programs and studies of
Part A(l) and (2)
CPA        2.07 (b)          13       CD        06/30/94                 Review with WB recommendations  (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
of studies of Part A (1) San JosJ,  during revision of the
Colquiri, Cerro Rico and Mutun  Capitalizaci6n Program i
1995
CPA        2.07 (c)          13       CD        06/30/94                 Carry out programs and           (Amended 7/4/93)
recommendations of 2.07 (b)     Fulfilled dutring executi
of Capitalization Progra
CPA       2.08               13       C         01/31/90                 Review of the status of          (Amended 7/4/93, origin
and each                 COMIBOL's mining properties and   2.09 (a)
year                     take all actions necessary for JV,  Fulfilled during
leasing, management contract for    Supervision Missions
non-operational and operational
properties or apply to provisions of
Mining Code
CPA        2.09              13       C         06/30/90                 Compensation scheme for middle    (Amended 7/4/93, origin
and senior level managers       2.10 (a))
Fulfilled by management
support within 2013-BO
funds
CPA        2.10              5        C                                  Maintain permanent workforce not   Amended 7/4/93, origina
more then 10% above May 31,     2.11)
1993 level                      Fulfilled
CPA        2.11 (a)          13       C         12/31/93                 Prepare and fumish to WB a       Amended 7/4/93)    Pi
program and time schedule for the    of actions presented to
transfer to the private sector of  Supervision Mission of
operating responsibilities of   September 1993
nationalized and rights of non-
nationalized properties
CPA        2.11(b)           13       CD                                 Promptly after 12/31/93 carry out    (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
program of 2.1 1 (a) [A7]       trhough Capitalization
Program
CPA       2.12 (a) (i)       13       CD        06/30/93                 COMIBOL shall approve its by-    (Amended 7/4/93) Fulfill
law                             04/96
CPA       2.12 (a) (ii)      5        C         06/30/93                 COMIBOL shall appoint executive,  (Amended 7/4/93)
financial and technical Directors  Satisfied, executive (chi
of contract Unit), financi
and technical directors or
equivalent appointed
CPA       2.12 (b)           5        C         12/31/93                 Adjust organizational structure  (Amended 7/4/93)
according to DS 23306           Satisfied, new organizati
approved by board 25/05
CPA       2.13               5        C                      12/31/93    COMIBOL shall prepare and        (Amended 7/4/93)
submit detailed schedule for    Satisfied, Plan of Action
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary      C   Complied with            SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement   12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD  Complied after delay     CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people    13 Other                    NC Not complied with         NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                               n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project     10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



39
Agree-      Section       Covenant    Status    Original       Revised         Description of Covenant              Comments
ment                       Class                fulfilumt     fitlfilamt.
date         date
implementation of                presented to Supervision
recommendations of study of Part    Mission of Sept. 93
A (1) (a) (i)
CPA ARTICLE III Management and Operation of COMIBOL
CPA        3.01               13       C                                    Carry out operations and conduct    Satisfied
affairs according with sound
administrative, financial,
managerial, engineering, mining
and environmental practices under
supervision of qualified staff
CPA        3.02               13       C                                    Operate and maintain facilities and   Satisfied
make necessary repairs
CPA        3.03               2        C                                    Take out and maintain appropriate   Fulfilled
insurance
CPA ARTICLE IV Financial Covenants
CPA        4.01 (a)           2        C                                    Maintain records and accounts     Fulfilled
adequate to reflect operations and
financial conditions including
separate records of Part A of the
Project
CPA        4.01 (b) (i)       2        CD         each Fiscal               Extemal auditing of records,      Fulfilled with delays unti
year                      accounts and financial statements    1995, 1996 satisfied with
each fiscal year                 no delays
CPA        4.01 (b) (ii)      2        CD         06/30 of                  Submit to WB certified copy of    Fulfilled with delays unti
each Fiscal               audited financial statement       1995, 1996 satisfied with
year                                                        no delays
CPA        4.01 (b) (iii)     2        C          each fiscal               Furnish information WB may        Satisfied
year                      request
CPA        4.01 (b) (iv)      2        CD         06/30/90                  Furnish audited statements for    Fulfilled 21/07/92
1987, 1988 and 1989 Fiscal years
CPA        4.02 (a)           2        C          each Fiscal               Maintain ratio of current assets to    Satisfied according to
year                      current liabilities not less than 1.2    books values
CPA        4.02 (b)           2        C          06/30 of                  On basis of forecasts review
each Fiscal               compliance of 4.02 (a) for such
year                      year
CPA        4.02 (c)           2        C          Shortly                   If not, take all necessary measures
after 06/30              for compliance of 4.02 (a)
each Fiscal
year
CPA        4.03 (a)           2        n/a       each Fiscal                Not incur any debt if after       Fulfilled to the extent tha
year                     incurrence the ratio of debt to    no additional debt was
equity shall be greater than 50 to    incurred. However,
50.                              impossible to comply sin
capital was negative
CPA        4.04 (a)           2        C         each Fiscal                Not incur any debt unless a       Fulfilled
reasonable forecast shows that
Covenant Class:                                                                         Status
I Account/Audit              6 Environmental covenants     II Sectorial budgetary       C   Complied with             SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.         7 Involuntary ressetlement    12 Sectorial rehulatory      CD  Complied after delay      CP      Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people      13 Other                     NC  Not complied with         NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin         9 Monitoring and reporting                                 n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project       10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



40
Agree-      Secton       Covenant    Status    Original  . Revised            Description of Covenant             Comments
ment                      Class                 fulfillmt.    fulfllDmt
date         date
year                     estimated net revenues for that year
shall be at least 1.3 times greater
the estimated debt service
CPA        4.05 (a)           2       C          12/31 of                  Submit to WB approval operating    Fulfilled
each Fiscal              and investment budget for
year                     following Fiscal year
CPA        4.05 (b)           2       C          each Fiscal              Not commit nor carry out any      Fulfilled
year                     investments in fixed assets more
than S millions $us in excess of the
amounts budgeted for operation or
investment 4.05 (a)
CPA        4.06               2       CD         12/31/93                 COMIBOL will establish a new      (Amended 7/4/93)  Ne
accounting system to control     accounting system in
adequately its financial operations    operation since 1995
CENTRAL BANK PROJECT AGREEMENT
CBPA: ARTICLE II Execution of the Project
CBPA       2.01               5       C                                   Commitment of CB to the
objectives of the project
CBPA       2.02               5       C                                   Procurement of goods, works and
consultant govemed by provision of
Section I and II of Schedule 3 of
DCA
CBPA       2.03               5       C                                   Compliance of sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of General
Conditions by CB
CBPA       2.04               5       C                                   CB shall enter into the CB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
accordance with Sec. 3.01 (f) of
DCA
CBPA       2.05               13      C                                    CB shall enter into Participating  Fulfilled
Agreements with the Financial
Intermediaries
CBPA       2.06 (a)           13      C                                   CB shall at request of WB
exchange views regarding progress
of Part B
CBPA       2.06 (b)           13      C                                    CB shall inform WB of any
interfering conditions with progress
of Part B
CBPA       2.07 (a)           2       C                                    Sub-loans shall be made in       Fulfilled
accordance with the Credit
Guidelines and procedures set forth
or referred in Schedule 2
CBPA                          13      C                                    CB shall exercise its rights as to (i)   Fulfilled
protect interests of WB and
financial intermediaries (ii) comply
Covenant Class:                                                                        Status
I Account/Audit              6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary       C   Complied with            SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.         7 Involuntary ressetlement   12 Sectorial rehulatory      CD  Complied after delay     CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people     13 Other                     NC Not complied with         NYD   Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin         9 Monitoring and reporting                                n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project      10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4193): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendment of 7/4(93



41
Agree-      Section     Covenant   Status    Original       Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
ment                     Class                fulfillmt.   fulflimt.
date        date
with obligations (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
CBPA      2.08 (a)           2       C                                  CB shall prepare and submit credit  Fulfilled
guidelines for the provision of
credit under Parts B (I) and (2) of
the Project
CBPA      2.08 (b)           5       C                                  CB shall appoint an administrator    Fulfilled
for Part B of the Project
CBPA      2.09               13      NC        06/30/90                 CB shall prepare a feasibility study
for the establishment and
maintenanceof a to guarantee the
repayment of Sub-loans to the
Financial Intermediaries.
CBPA      2.10 (a)           13      C                                  CB shall review at WB request the   (Amended 7/4/93)
status of implementation of Part B
of the Project, incl. adequacyof
onlending termns, interest rate
CBPA      2.10 (b)           13      CD        06/30/94                 CB shall review with WB the     (Amended 7/4193) Fulfill
estimated demand for Subloans   during supervision missi
of 09/96
CBPA      2.10 (c)           13      C.        06/30/94                 If no agreement reached as result of  (Amended 7/4/93)
+30 days                the review, WB may refrain from  Agreement reached of
approving or authorizing Subloans   cancelling Part B
CBPA  ARTICLE Hi  Financial Covenants
CBPA      3.01 (a)           2       C                                  Maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect operations and
financial conditions including
separate records of Part B of the
Project
CBPA      3.01 (b) (i)       2       CD        each Fiscal              Extemal auditing of records,
year                     accounts and financial statements
each fiscal year
CBPA      3.01 (b) (ii)      2       CD        06/30 of                 Submit to WB certified copy of
each Fiscal              audited financial statement
year
CBPA      3.01 (b) (iii)     2       C         each fiscal              Fumish information WB may
year                    request
CBPA      3.02               2       C                                  CB shall take satisfactorysteps to
protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from changes in
exchangerates
Covenant Class:                                                                     Status
I Account/Audit             6 Environmental covenants    11 Sectorial budgetary     C   Complied with           SOON  Complia
2 Financial perform.        7 Involuntary ressetlement  12 Sectorial rehulatory     CD  Compliedafterdelay       CP    Complie
3 Flow and utiliz. Proj. funds   8 Indigeneous people   13 Other                    NC Not complied with         NYD  Not yet
4 Counterpart fundin        9 Monitoring and reporting                              n/a not aplicable
5 Management of project     10 Implementation
(Amended 7/4/93): Covenant modified or introduced through Amendmnent of 7/4(93



42
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No known lack of compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle            Planned                   Revised                      Actual
Weeks        US$         Weeks          US$           Weeks          US$
Through appraisal                                                                    108.59       200,348
Appraisal through Board                                                               68.47       126,979
approval
Board approval through                                                                40.12        85,490
effectiveness
Supervision                                                                          173.13       460,354
Completion                                                                            13.50        61,800
TOTAL                                                                                403.81       934,971
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project    Month/  Number   Days            Specialized      Performance rating   Types of
cycle                 year      of        in         staff skills                          problems
persons    field      represented'
Implementation Development
status   objectives
Through appraisal    85 to 86    5        60    OP, MIN
4/88       2         8    OP, MIN
6/88       4        30    OP, MIN, ENV
Appraisal through      -         -         -
Board approval
Board approval       12/89       3         13    OP, MIN, FIN            I 
through effectiveness   4/90     2         18    OP, MIN                    I        I
Supervision           8/90       1         5    MIN                      2
9/90       2         16    OP, FIN                 -          -
2/91       2         15    OP, MIN                 2
'Key to specialized staff skills: OP: Operation Manager; MIN: Mining Specialist; FIN: Financial Specialist; ENV: Environmental
Specialist; DISB: Disbursement Specialist.



43
Stage of project   Month/ Number   Days            Specialized     Performance rating   Types of
cycle                year    . of        in         staff skills                        problems
persons    field     represented'
Implementation Development
status    objectives
5/91      1         11    OP                     2          1
9/91       1        13    OP                     3          1
10/91      1        4    DISB                     -         -
9/92      1         7    OP                      3          1
1/93      2         11    OP, ENV                2          1
5/93      2         14    OP, ENV                2          1
9/93      2         12    OP, MIN                2          1
2/94      4         14    OP, MIN, ENV           2          1
6/94      4         16    OP, MIN, ENV, FIN      S         HS
9/94      2         10    OP, MIN               HS          S
4/95      2         15    OP, MIN                S          S
8/95      2         15    OP, MIN                S          S
3/96      2         11    OP, MIN                S          S
.____________   9/96     2         11    OP, M1N                S          S     __I
Completion           4/97       2      11    OP, MIN                  HS        HS



44
APPENDIX A
Project Completion Mission Aide Memoire



45
A YUDA MEMORL4
BOLIVIA CREDITOAIF2013-BO
PROYECTODEREHABILITACIdN DEL SECTOR MNERO
M75IOiv DESUPER VISION
I.-   INIRODUCCION
1:>. Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por los sefiores FMiix Remy y Gotthard WaLser
(IENv ), visit6 Bolivia entre el 31 de mazo y el 10 de abril de 1.997 con el prop6sito
de preparar la documentaci6n de cierte del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n del Sector Einero
(PRSM). Con carta de 13 de marzode 1.997 Ia AIF invit6 a Asdi, co-financiadordel
PRSMvI, a que intervenga de esta misi6n de cierre. La misi6n fte informada que, a pesar
de su inter6s por el PRSM, Asdi no pudo enviar un representante para que participe en
la misi6n. Los principales objetivos de la mision fueron: ( i ) supervisi6n de la ejecuci6n
PRSM en la etapa de cierre y la preparaci6n del informe de cierre en el marco de las
. normas del Banco Mundial; y ( ii ) contactos con las autoridades del Prestatario para
informar sobre los procedimientos de cierre y su participaci6n. Esta ayuda memoria
resume las conclusiones de la mrisi6n las mismas que, han sido consultadas con el
prestatario v las agencias ejecutoras y, seran confimadas medianme comunicaci6n oficial
de la sede del Banco MNundial.
IT.-   CONCLUSIONES AL CIERRE DEL PROYECTO
A.    Eiecuci6n del provecto.-
2.    El PRSM  result6 plenamente exitoso habiendo creado las condiciones para eI
redireccionamiento, modernizaci6n y el crecimiento de la minerfa boliviana, en el marco
de la nueva politica econ6rrica del Pais. El redireccionamiento del sector se obtuvo
mediante la transferencia de las responsabilidades operativas y de inversi6n del Estado
al sector privado. La modernizaci6n imcluye la incorporaci6n de tecnologfa de pulba
en el sector privado y el fortalecimiento y modemizaci6n de las instituciones mineras
p iblicas, en particular SETMIvNq.  El crecimiento se evidencia por la inversi6n privada
en exploracion, que fue insignificante en 1990 y en 1996 alcanz6 a 39 millones de
dMlares; durante este perfodo la inversion privada total subi6 de 21 millones de d6lares
a 102 miillones de d6lares ('). Las empresas extranjeras que estuvieron ausentes en
1985, fueron mas de 36 en 1996.
3.    En marzo de 1997 se promulg6 el Nuevo C6digo de Mvineria que asegura la
consolidacion y/o expansi6n de la inversi6n privada en minerfa en las pr6ximas d6cadas.
El nuevo C6digo de Mineria otorga seguridad juridica a los duenos de los derechos
mineros y establece procedimientos transparentes y expeditos para la otorgaci6n de
concesiones. El C6digo tambidn facilita el acceso del inversionista a los recursos
mineros del pais.
(1) Fuente: Secretaria .Nacional de Minerfa
-I-



46
4.    El PRSM  esta pr6ximo a cunmplir el objetivo de retirar a COMIBOL de las
responsabilidades operativas y de limitarla a la administaci6n de contratos operados por
empresas privadas. Se ha logrado la firma de 24 contratos de arrendamiento y de riesgo
compartido para Ia exploraci6n o explotacion de centros mineros y propiedades de
COMIBOL.
5.    COMIBOL sent6 las bases del manejo ambiental para la transferencia de sus
propiedades al sector privado. El PRSM apoy6 la introducci6n del concepto de manejo
ambiental, habiendose completado 28 auditorias ambientales de sus operaciones mineras
e industriales. Este manejo ambiental del programa de trasferencia es el pionero en su
gdnero y es un modelo para futuras'privatizaciones en todo el continente.
6.    El PRSM  apoyo al saneamiento financiero de COvIBOL habiendose alcanzado
equilibro al final del proyecto. Las perdidas de COivflBOL de 53 millones de d6lares
en 1985 y 200 millones de d6lares en 1986 pracdicamente logzraron equilibrio en 1996
al arrojar una perdida del orden de los 100 mil d6lares.
7.    Si bien el monto desembolsado en el componente de Cr6dito fire insuficiente, su
ejecuci6n permiti6 acumular una experiencia valiosa sobre el tema del credito minero,
la rnisma que fue uftlizada en la preparaci6n del C6digo Minero. Asiminsmo, el PRSM
contribuy6 al cierre de FONEM y BAMIN, instituciones que otorgaban creditos
subvencionados a ernpresas de dudosa solidez y seriedad.
8.    El componente institucional cumpli6 sus objetivos satisfactoriamente. Entre sus logros
cabe mencionar los siguientes:
La creaci6n y organizaci6n del SETMThI que permite el manejo eficiente y-
modemo de los derechos mineros.
La generacion-y difusi6n irrestricta de informaci6n geol6gica minera bisica
mediante la constittici6n del SERGEOM'I.
La reestructuraci6n de la Secretarfa Nacional de MvIineria
El cierre y privatizaci6n de los geoservicios.
La prornoci6n del manejo ambiental en el sector.
B.    Operaciones v sostenibilidad
9.    El Nuevo C6digo de Mineria establece un marco favorable para la sostenibilidad del
proyecto. Este marco busca el crecimiento del sector a traves de las inversiones privadas,
establece las bases de una administraci6n modema del sector minero a travds de las
instituciones mineras publicas.
10.   Las instituciones mineras fortalecidas cuentan ahora coa personal capacitado y
equipamiento adecuado para la elaboraci6n de politicas y para la producci6n y
divulgaci6n de informaci6n basica. La capacidad financiera de las instituciones esta
garantizada mediante los ingresos por patentes mineras.
-2-



47
11.   El anexo A adjunta el plan para esta etapa operativa del proyecto, preparado por el
prestatario. Dicho plan establece como objetivos fundamentales:
(i) Culminar la puesta en marcha de la nueva estructura de COhlIBOL como
administradora de contratos, antes de fin de 1997. COMIBOL debe otorgar
prioridad al mantenimiento de un equipo selecto y reducido de profesionales
calificados. Todas las propiedades miineras y no mineras, que auin detenta
COMIBOL, deberan haber sido transferidas al sector privado o revertidas al
estado antes del 30 de junio de- 1999. Asimismo, los excedentes que resultan de
los contratos de arrendamientr  y riesgo comparido deberan transferirse al TGN;
(ii) mnantener la capacidad de la Secretaria Nacional de NMinerfa para formular
politicas y normas dirigidas al sector rninero y para controlar su aplicaci6n;
(iii) SETvUN debe consolidar su estructura poniendo en vigencia sus Estatutos
y manteniendo un personal que reina los requisitos tecnicos y de experiencia.
Igualmente SETvIINi- debe aprobar y poner en vigencia los reglamentos del
Rezistro NMinero y de la Gaceta Nacional Mineray el reiamen de control de
patentes. El catastro minero debe concluir el 30 dejunjo de 1999 y debe ser
actualizado permanentemente.
(iv) SERGEOMN' debe concluir su reestructuraci6n conczeando Ia privatizaci6n
de sus laboratorios, poniendo en efecto sus Estatutos e iniciando la operaci6n de
sus nuevos sistemas contables financieros. Los programas anuales de trabajo
deben mantenerse en linea con el progmraa puesto en efecto durante la ejecuci6n
del PRSM y deben incluir objetivos para los pr6ximos 5 ahos. Entre otros debera
especificarse metas para el suministro de informaci6n sobre areas adicionales de
44.000 krn, para. inforrnaci6n geol6gica basica, 110.000 krn para informacion
tem.tica. para informaci6n en prospecci6n basica de 20.000 kj2 en el area del
Precambrico, incluyendo por lo menos informaci6n sobre dos subcuencas
(Potosi y Pilcomayo) para infornaci6n de linea de base medio ambiental.
12.   Un aspecto que puede afectar negativamente la sostenibilidad del Proyecto es la no
conclusi6n de la reestructuraci6n de la COMIBOL antes del cierre del Proyecto. La
empresa cuenta con nurnerosos bienes no mineros que deben ser transferidos al sector
privado. Asi mismo, tras la uiltima postergaci6n en la fecha de capitalizaci6n de Vinto,
la transfer-encia de Huanuni y Colquiri al sector privado se hara en fecha muy pr6xima
al cierre del Proyecto.
-3-



48
III.   APOYO AL PRESTATARIO PARA LA PREPARACION DEL INFORME.
13.   La mision mantuvo reuniones con la SNM para dar apoyo en la preparaci6n del informe
del prestatario. En estas reuniones el prestatario present6 un borrador de informe,
preparado de acuerdo con los lineamientos establecidos en la anterior misi6n de
supervisi6n, en septiembre-octubre de 1996. La misi6n hizo lIegar sus comentarios a
dicho documento, especificando que las opiniones que se incluyan en la versi6n final son
estrictamente las del prestatario. Asimismo, la mision hizo ilegar al prestatario sus
impresiones acerca del primer borrador del plan operativo que fuera presentado al
inicio de la mision
14.   La mnisi6n tuvo un intercainbio de criterios, acerca del proceso de cierre, con el
Directorio en pleno y la alta direcci6n de COMIBOL. Se puntualiz6 y se coincidi6 en
la importancia de concluir la reestructuraci6n de COMIBOL, definida en eI C6diao de
ivinenfa, a la brevedad posible. La Mlisi6n hizo conocer su opini6n en el sentido que
la nueva COMvBOL debe minimizar su numero de trabajadores, haciendo uso de la
contrataci6n de servicios para atender las labores en la cual sea factible dicha
contrataci6n.
15.   La misi6n fue informada de los avances en el proceso de reestrucruraci6n del
SERGEOMIN. A la fecha se ha concluido la aprobaci6n de los Estatutos y Reglamentos
Internos, y se ha nombrado y posesionado al Directorio. Res-a aun concluir la puesta
en marcha del Sistema Contable Financiero, la privatizaci6n del laboratorio de
Chiripujio y la liquidaci6n de bienes excedentes.
16.   La reciente aurobaci6n del C6digo de Mineria ha incrementado las finciones al
SETIMN, habiendosele asignado responsabilidades para organizar y mantener el registro
minero, controlar el pago de patentes mineras y publicar la GacetaNacional MIinera. El
gobiemo ha otorgado un plazo de 60 dias para que SETIvN est6 funcionando y presente
un nuevo estatuto que cubra todas las responsabilidades que le asigna el Nuevo C6digo
de ivMinerfa.
La Paz, IO de abril de 1997
-4-



49
APPENDIX B
Borrower's Contribution to the Report



SECRETARIA NACIONAL DE MINERIA                 .50
BANCO MUNDIAL
PF-OYECTO DE REHABILITACION DEL SECTOR MINERO   - - -
CREDITO IDA 2013 - BO
CITE:        ~         r
BC -M9
La Paz, agosto 5 de 1997
Sefior-.
Ing. Felix Remy
Banco Mundial
Washington D.C'-                                                -.      --         - --
IDistinguido Ingeniero Remy:
Adjunto a lapresente usted encontrard la versionfinal de: (i) hnforme del Prestatario Credtio IDA 2013-
BOy (i) Plan para la etapa operativa del Sector Minero.
Con este motivo, saludo a ustedatentamente.
E.a uiardu Gutiirsz 6aaIdefa
r.-C&GINAD0a2 cErk
jrCYECTO RW=AEUaQCEI S mmC1 IHO
.EGCAci'.
adj.: lo indcado
.c.: ArcIilvo.'*-
OFICINAS: Avda. 16 de  ulo 1769 -Sto.. Pso - Tel6fonos. 357887-379314 Int 318
Casma 6686 - Faz (591.2) 391928 - La Paz - Bolvia



Dec-11-97  11:52A                                                                           P.02
51
MINISTERIO DE DESARROLLO ECONCO
SECRETARIA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
LA PAZ. BOUVIA
Cile No         DAPSJJ04197
La Paz, abril 09 de 1997
Sefior                                                   I!    -
Ing. Euardo Gutirrez C.                      U?.    I               T
COORDINADOR INSTITUCIONAL                             '       ;
BM. - SNM.
Presente.- -*.
Sefior Coordinador:                                              _ .J 
Tengo a bien remitir adjunto los siguientes documentos:
Evaluacicn de cierre del prestatario del Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n del Sector Minero.
- plan para la etapa operativa del Proyecao de Rehabiliraci6n del Sector Minero.
Con este motivo, saludo a usted atentamente.
A/
// / gelY^^1O"AL. D It"Et&
4 A'  A             (Be-
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SfSAI   Nrr ... :  .OS. 04 9M
.~~L ~
5SA.4.  -
2*          .          



52
PROYECTO DE REHABILITACION DEL SECTOR MINERO
CREDITO IDA - 2013
1.    ANTECEDENTES Y OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
1.1   Situaci6n del sector minero antes de la implementaci6n del proyecto
Como consecuencia de la dramatica caida de los precios de los principales
minerales que exporta Bolivia, ocurrida en 1985, s6lo comparable.con la que
devino postenormente en 1993 con similares caracteristicas, el sector minero
metalurgico de Bolivia se encontraba en una profunda crisis econ6mica, social e
institucional.
Ya desde comienzos de la decada de los 80 la industria minera en Bolivia
mostraba una baja tasa de crecimiento, situaci6n originada principalmente en: i)
bajos niveles de inversion industrial, particularmente en exploraci6n; ii) un gran
rezago tecnol6gico; iii) reducidas posibilidades de acceso de las empresas
mineras al financiamiento debido a problemas estructurales del sistema
financiero y a la existencia de ineficientes entidades estatales de fomento; y iv)
expansi6n de actividades mineras artesanales de la mineria.
Asi por ejemplo, el valor de las exportaciones mineras en 1985 cayo respecto al
ario antencr en un 27% y el ano 1986 este rubro alcanz6 en valores corrientes
apenas el 54% del valor obtenido en 1084. Una caida mfs grave aun se
produjo en los ingresos fiscales originados en la minerfa; asf, mientras en 1984
el total de regalias pagadas por el sector minero se aproximaba a los 32.8
millones de d6lares, en 1986 apenas se logr6 recaudar por este concepto la
suma de 2.4 millones de d6lares americanos. Similar situaci6n se di6 en la
inversi6n, que en la decada de los 80 s6lo logr6 un promedio anual de 9
millones de d6lares de los cuales menos del 20% se destin6 a exploraci6n.
En este ambito fue disenadb el Proyecto de Rehabilitaci6n del Sector Minero
(PRSM), inicialmente sobre la base de un diagn6stico institucional de la
COMIBOL (1986-88), luego complementado con un diagn6stico del resto de
instituciones del sector minero (Ministerio de Minerfa, Servicia Geol6gico de
Bolivia, Banco Minero de Bolivia, Instituto de Investigaciones Minero
Metalurgicas, Fondo Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera) hasta alcanzar la
forrnulaci6n del Plan Maestro Institucional.
A partir de los estudios preparatorios fue establecido el Convenio IDA 2013 -
BO que comprende los siguientes documentos:
i.    Plan Maestro Institucional, enero 1989.
ii.   SAR 7630, documento evaluativo, abril 1989.
1



53
iii.   Contrato de Cr6dito para el Desarrollo entre el Gobiemo de Bolivia y la
Asociaci6n Internacional de Fomento, agosto 1989.
iv.   Convenio entre el el Banco Central de Bolivia y la Asociaci6n
Intemacional de Fomento, agosto 1989.
v.    Convenio. entre la Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia y la Asociacin
Intemacional de Fomento.
vi.   Ley de la Republica No. 1129, aprobaci6n del Convenio de Cr6dito para
ia Rehabilitaci6n del Sector Minero por 26.5 millones de Derechos
Especiales de Giro equivalentes a $us. 35 millones, enero 1991.
vii.  Enmiendas al Convenio de Credito.
I ra.  Programa   de      Reestructuraci6n   Economica    de
COMIBOUEfectividad del prestamo, junio 1990.
2da. Apertura de la Cuenta Especial, febrero 1991.
3ra. Reprogramaci6n y reasignacion de fondos, abril 1991.
4ta. Rediseno estrategico del PRSM y reasignaci6n de fondos, abril
1993.
5ta.  Extensi6n del cierre del credito hasta junio de 1997, mayo 1996.
6ta.  Transferencia de responsabilidad por la parte "B" del credito a
NAFIBO, enero 1997.
El Contrato de Cr6dito para el Desarrollo (DCA) incluye 3 componentes: A.
Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia; B. Credito para la mineria privada y cooperativas
(Banco Central) y C. Fortalecimiento institucional.
Asimismo se Ioar6 firmar 3 acuerdos bilaterales con el Gobiemo de Suecia,
quien a traves de la SGAB tuvo un importante rol en el cofinanciamiento,
coadministraci6n y ejecucion de proyectos en la SNM, GEOBOL, I.l.M.M.,
SENCAM y COMIBOL.
1.2   Objetivos generales del proyecto
-     Optimizar la eficiencia del sector y lograr una actidad minera
competitiva y con capacidad de lograr crecimiento autosostenido.
-     Establecimiento de un marco legal y regulatorio conducente a [a mayor
eficiencia del sector.
-.    Habilitar eficientes instituciones sectoriales para la administraci6n del
sector y la coordinaci6n de politicas sectoriales.
*   -    Establecer infraestructura geol6gica adecuada con el fin de suministrar
informaci6n basica a los agentes productvos.
1.3   Objetivos especificos por componente
2



54
A.   Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia
-    Establecer la participaci6n privada en las operaciones de
COMIBOL, incorporando administraci6n moderna, nueva
tecnologia y disponibilidad de recursos financieros.
-    Atraer nuevas inversiones privadas, locales y extranjeras, de
acuerdo a ia estructura financiera de Bolivia.
B.   Cr6dito al sector privado
-    Incrementar las fuentes de financiamiento disponibles para
compaflias mineras que operan en territoio boliviano, habilitando
ademas al Banco Central de Bolivia para promover cr6ditos
destinados a la mineria pnvada (chica y cooperatva) dentro del
sistema bancario de Bolivia.
C.   Fortalecimiento institucional
Fortalecer la capacidad norm2tiva y reguladora de la Secretaria
Nacional de Mineria (antes Ministeno de Minena y Metaturgia), asi
como para f'ormular, supervisar y coordinar la politca minera.
-    Establecer un eficaz servicio de catastro minero para lograr una
administraci6n adecuada de los derechos mineros.
-    Reactivar las operaciones del Servicio Geol6gico de Bolivia e
iniciar trabajos de alta prioridad para mejorar el conocimiento
geol6gico del territorio nacional, a fin de hacer menos nesgosos y
mas atractivos los proyectos mineros.
-    Reorientar el.lnstituto de Investigaciones Minero Metalurgicas.
2.    EXPERIENCIA EN LA IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO
El pernodo de ejecuci6n del proyecto, particularmente en su fase de
concreciones, se caracteriz6 pof la materializaci6n en Bolivia de una gran
cantidad de reformas en los ambitos politico, econ6mico y social que
seguramente marcaran fuertemente el futuro del pals. Este hecho provoc6 en
gran medida que se retrasara el logro de algunas metas propias del proyecto,
ya que la cantidad y alcance de las reformas plante6 al Gobiemo un problema
de agenda de las politicas publicas disenadas. Hubo entonces otras prioridades
que resolver previamente, lo que retras6 considerablemente principa)mente la
consideraci6n y aprobaci6n del nuevo C6digo de Mineria y el proceso de
capitalkaci6n de la E.M. Vinto que finalmente no lleg6 a culminar.
Un otro aspecto dificil en la consideraci6n y discusi6n de las reformas en el
sector minero fue la tenaz oposici6n de una variedad de grupos de interes, en
3



55
algunos casos afectados por el cambio y en otros originada en la mala
informaci6n o en factores de fndole politica. Hasta el ultimo momento grupos
civico regionales, sindicales, partidos de oposici6n y la propia industria se
resistian a aceptar los cambios, lo cual en gran medida fue revertido
considerando que en realidad las medidas buscaban el equilibrio y la equidad
entre los actores involucrados.
Un momento sumamente diffcil y critico en el desarrollo del proyecto fue la
suspensi6n temporal de los desembolsos, ocurrida a partir del 13 de febrero de
1992 debido al retraso en: i) ejecuci6n del Plan de Reestructuraci6n Econ6mica
-de COMIBOL (PRE); ii) conformaci6n de empresas de riesgo compartido con
COMIBOL; iii) racionalizacion del personal de COMIBOL; iv) auditorfas extemas
de las operaciones de COMIBOL gestiones 1989-1990; v) reorganizaci6n de los
servicios geol6gico-mineros; y vi) toma de decisiones para la reestructuraci6n
del catastro minero.
La suspensi6n del cr6dito provoc6 una crisis administrativa institucional en
todas las entidades y complicaciones tecnicas y financieras en la ejecuci6n del
Convenio con el Gobierno Sueco. Una vez resueltas las condiciones
incumplidas se restituyeron los desembolsos al cabo de 9 meses.
3.    PRINCIPALES LOGROS DEL PROYECTO
Los principales resultados globales del Proyecto se dieron en dos ambitos:
jur[dico normativo e institucional.
En el ambito jurfdico normativo el loaro mas importante fue la formulaci6n y
aprobaci6n de un nuevo C6digo de Mineria que reune las siguientes
caracteristicas: i) otorga las mayores seguridades juridicas y tecnicas a los
titulares de derechos mineros; ii) incorpora un regimen fiscal para la mineria
competitivo, acreditable en otras jurnsdicciones mineras y equitativo para el
Estado, las regiones productoras y las empresas; y iii) contiene preceptos de
legislaci6n ambiental que cubren vacios en la legislaci6n vigente y facilitaran el
cuidado ambiental en las actividades mineras.
Estas medidas fueron complementadas con disposiciones reglamentarias, tanto
en la parte ambiental como en la tributaria. Los reglamentos en estas dos areas
han sido concluidos y aprobados por el Poder Ejecutivo mediante decretos
supremos.
En el ambito institucional el logro mas importante fue la reestructuraci6n de las
instituciones de servicio a la mineria. Esto signific6: q) la reestructuraci6n de'la
Secretarfa Nacional de Mineria para fortalecer su capacidad normativa y
regulatoria; ii) reestructuracicn de COMIBOL como una estructura empresanal
administradora de contratos; iii) creaci6n y fortalecimiento del SETMIN,
organismo encargado de realizar el catastro minero nacional y otorgar
seguridad tecnica al derecho minero; iv) creaci6n de SERGEOMIN, para
generar informaci6n basica en los rubros de geologia, mineria, medio ambiente
e hidrogeologia; y v) el cierre del Banco Minero de Bolivia y del Fondo de
Exploraci6n Minera, devolviendo al mercado su rol de asignador de recursos en
4



56
el area financiera.
A.   Corporaci6n Minera de Bolivia
El componente COMIBOL fue orientado a lograr la reestructuraci6n de la
empresa a traves de la transferencia de responsabilidades operativas al sector
privado. Para este efecto fue disenado. el Plan de Reestructuraci6n Econ6mica
(PRE).
'Los principales logros alcanzados en este componente en base al PRE son:
-     Racionalizaci6n de personal-mediante retiro voluntano, que permiti6 la
- -~ -   reducci6n de personal de COMIBOL de 6,126 empleados a fines de
1991 a 1,476 a fines de 1996.
-    Cierre de operaciones no rentables (actualmente las operaciones de la
COMIBOL se limitan a 2 centros mineros: Huanuni y Colquiri).
Reorganizaci6n  de  COMIBOL  como  una estructura empresarial
destinada a administrar una cartera de contratos de riesgo compartido,
arrendamiento u otros.
La nueva estructura empresarial se basa en una Unidad de Contratos y
Finanzas que ha implementado un nuevo sistema de informacion que
incluye los sistemas financiero y de contratos, lo que ha permitido el
saneamiento contable y financiero de la empresa.
-     TTransferencia de responsabilidades operativas de COMIBOL al sector
privado en ejecuci6n. Actualmente se tienen firmados 18 contratos de
nesao compartido o arrendamiento con el sector privado para la
explotaci6n o exploraci6n con opci6n de explotaci6n de sus propiedades
mineras, con una inversi6n comprometida de 64 millones de dMlares.
-     Proceso de capitalizaci6n de la E.M. Vinto con opcion de contratos de
nesgo compartido o-arrendamiento en los centros mineros de Huanuni y
Coiquiri, que aunque no lleg6 a culminar en farma satisfactoria en la
fecha prevista, se encuentra en una fase avanzada de preparaci6n y listo
para su relanzamiento en la pr6xima administraci6n de Gobierno.
-     El actual gobiemo mediante Decreto Supremo instruye la continuidad del
proceso de capitalizacion de la Empresa Metalurgica Vinto (Huanuni y
Colquiri ), encargando esta tarea al Ministerio Desarrollo Econ6mico.
B.   Componente cr6dito al sector privado
Este componente estuvo orientado a mejorar el acceso al credito de la mineria
pnivada, tanto mediana y chica como cooperativa, a traves de una linea de
credito administrada por el Banco Central de Bolivia a ser canalizada a trav6s
del sistema bancario. Debido fundamentalmente a problemas estructurales del
sector financiero del pais y a su escaso interes de intermediar creditos para la
S



*57
mineria, este componente no tuvo resultados satisfactorios, habi6ndose
otorgado durante el periodo de vigencia del proyecto tan s6lo un credito por un
monto de $us. 248,700.
Sin embargo, es importante destacar la contribuci6n del Proyecto a la
reestructuraci6n del sistema financiero de la minerfa que habia ingresado en un
periodo absolutamente critico debido a las altas tasas de morosidad en su
cartera. Asi por ejemplo, el Banco Minero de Bolivia tenia una cartera en. mora
de mas de 40 millones de d6lares, en tanto que la cartera en mora del Fondo
Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera sobrepasaba los 12.6 millones de d6lares. Esta
tituaci6n condujo finalmente al cierre definitivo de ambas instftuciones.
C.   Componente institucional
El componente institucional estuvo disenado para lograr el fortalecimiento y
modemizacion de las instituciones del sector en un marco legal y regulatono
adecuado para atraer inversi6n privada a la minerfa. Los principales logros en
este componente son:
Fortalecimiento de 1a Secretaria Nacional de Mineria
Reestructuraci6n en 1996 de la Secretarfa Nacional de Mineria (SNM)
con el objeto de fortalecer su capacidad normativa, regulatoria y de
formulaci6n, coordinaci6n y ejecucion de la politica minera. La nueva
estructura cuenta con las Direcciones de Analisis de Politica Sectorial,
Promoci6n de Inversiones, Medio Ambiente, Administrativa y Juridica.
Adicionalmente la SNM fue incorporada al Programa de Servicio Civil
inicialmente con 5 cargos que seran incrementados paulatinamente
hasta 17 cargos.
Mediante Decreto Supremo No. 24176 de 8 de diciembre de 1995 se ha
aprobado la reglamentaci6n de la Ley del Medio Ambiente que
comprende 6 reglementos generales, en cuya preparaci6n ha parficipado
activamente el Task Force - Direcci6n de Medio Ambiente de la SNM.
Ha sido concluida la elaboraci6n de los reglamentos tributario y
ambiental del Codigo de Minerfa. Dichos reglamentos han sido
aprobados por el Poder Ejecutivo.
Establecimiento del Servicio de Catastro Minero
-     El Servicio T6cnico de Minas (SETMIN), organismo encargado del
levantamiento del catastro minero nacional y de otorgar apoyo tecnico al
tramite de concesiones mineras obtuvo los siguientes productos: i)
elaboraci6n mediante Decreto Supremo de la reglamentaci6n del
catastro minero nacional; ii) inscripci6n provisional al catastro minero de
todas las concesiones mineras preconstituidas y en trimite; iii) ejecuci6n
del precatastro con recopilaci6n de informaci6n grafica y literal de las
concesiones mineras preconstituidas y en tr"mite; - iv) ejecuci6n del
6t



58
catastro minero nacional en dos areas de primera prioridad: Cordilera
Occidental y Escudo Precambrico, los trabajos en la Cordillera Oriental
se iniciaron en el mes de abril de 1997.
Informaci6n geol6gica, minera y ambiental
-    Mediante Decreto Supremo No. 24275 de 18 de' abril de 1996 fue creado
el Servicio Nacional de Geologia y Mineria, fusionando bajo un unico
esquema organico GEOBOL, I.l.M.M. y el proyecto de Redes
--    Informaticas. Esta nueva entidad tfene a su cargo la elaboracid6n,
procesamiento  y  difusi6n  de  informaci6n  basica  geol6gica,
hidrogeol6gica, minera y ambiental. Sus principales productos fueron: i)
55 mapas geol6gicos elabor-ados en escala 1:100.000 y un mapa
geologico de Bolivia escala 1:1.000.000; ii) 53 mapas temmticos
elaborados y publicados, 7 en actual proceso y 11 memorias explicativas
publicadas; iii) 25 mapas tematicos en formato digital (SIG); iv) 28
mapas geoquimicos del Distrito San Ram6n, boletines, productos
impresos y digitales, mapas geol6gicos, productos finales de geofisica
aerotransportada y otros productos finales del area del Precambrico; v)
incorporac.6n de las instituciones de servicio a la minerfa a los sistemas
inform6ticos computarizados a trav6s de redes locales; v) elaboraci6n de
32 reportes tecnicos sobre la evaluaci6n ambiental regional del
departamento de Oruro y constituci6n de una base de datos con mas de
150.000 datos ambientales y scioecon6micos de ia cuenca del Poop&.
4.    EVALUACION DE RESULTADOS
A fines de los ochenta, cuando se inicia la formulaci6n del Proyecto, la minerfa
boliviana estaba descapitalizada y con un profundo rezaco tecnol6gico. Esta
crisis se origin6 en el modelo econ6mico implantado a partir de 1952 por el cual
el estado (i) asume las mayores responsabilidades en la exploracion,
explotaci6n, fundici6n y refinaci6n de minerales y metales, creandose al efecto
la empresa minera COMIBOL y las metal6rgicas de VINTO y KARACHIPAMPA,
(ii) promueve un contextb- desfavorable a la promoci6n de la inversi6n
extranjera; (iii) interviene en los mecanismos asignadores de recursos mediante
politicas cambiarias, monetarias y fiscales proteccionistas, creando, entre otros,
el Banco Minero de Bolivia (BAMIN) y el Fondo Nacional de Exploraci6n Minera
(FONEM); y (iv) establece y aplica el marco normativo y regulatorio para la
ejecuci6n de actividades mineras.
El principal logro del Proyecto ha sido contnibuir de manera integral a la reforma
estructural de la mineria boliviana, alcanzando su punto culminante en la
aprobaci6n del Nuevo C6digo de Mineria (marzo 1997).
Como resultado de dicha reforma (i) las responsabilidades productivas se
confian exclusivamente a la iniciativa privada, convirtibndose a COMIBOL en
una empresa administradora de contratos mediante la transferencia del control
de sus operaciones a privados, dej6ndose para la pr6xima gesti6n de Gobiemo
la privatizaci6n (a traves del proceso de capitalizaci6n) de la empresa
metalurgica VINTO; (ii) el mercado se consolida como el mecanismo asignador
7



59
de recursos, eliminandose el FONEM y el BAMIN y las politicas cambiarias,
monetarias y fiscales distorsivas; y (iii) el Estado focaliza sus funciones en
otorgar las mayores garantias a los tenedores de derechos mineros, mediante
un moderno sistema de catastro basado en tecnologia satelital y la creacion de
superintendencias mineras, en formular politicas, normas y regulaciones para el
sector, y en intervenir unicamente cuando existan fallas de mercado, asi se crea
el Servicio de Geologia y Mineria, para generar informaci6n geol6gica y
ambiental basica.
Esta reforma estructural ha sentado las bases para la atracci6n de capitales y la
mnodemizaci6n tecnol6gica y ambiental de la mineria boliviana. Por ejemplo,
entre 1990 y 1996 las inversiones de riesgo en exploraci6n minera han
aumentado en 800%. En ese mjsmo periodo, se han desarrollado nuevos
proyectos de explotaci6n minera con una inversi6n del orden de los 400
millones destacandose los proyectos de inti Raymi (oro-plata), COMCO (plata),
Bolivar (zinc-plomo-plata), Baremsa (plomo-plata-antimonio), Puquio Norte (oro-
cobre) y Don Mario (oro-cobre). Tambien, en ese mismo periodo se ha
consolidado la difusi6n de la tecnologia de explotaci6n minera a ciefo abierto y
de procesamiento por lixiviaci6n.
Mas aun, la reforma ha comportado, por una parte, la reasianaci6n de los
excedentes mineros en beneficio de las regiones productoras de minerales y
metales, corrigiendo una inequidad distributiva originada desde tiempos
coloniales.
Por otra parte, ha incorporado la gesti6n ambiental y el principio de desarrollo
sostenible en el diseiho de politicas y en el marco legal y regulatorio de las
actividades minero metal6raicas.
SOSTENIBILIDAD DE LA REFORMA DEL SECTOR MINERO
Como emergencia de la aguda crisis minera en los ochenta, la zona occidental
del pais se ha visto inmersa en una peligrosa dinamica: la severa reducci6n en
las cotizaciones intemacionales y en actividades mineras ha dado lugar a una
fuerte caida en los ingresos de la poblaci6n y de sus administraciones
regionales, habiendo surgido la percepci6n de que el origen de la crisis radica
en que la explotaci6n minera no se encuentra bajo su control directo. Asi, es
posible percibir actitudes manifiestamente opuestas a la promoci6n de
inversiones   privadas,   particularmente  extranjeras,  y   tendencias
reinvindicacionistas orientadas a reeditar a nivel regional el modelo estatista e
intervencionista, que el Proyecto apoy6 a superar.
Si bien es cierto que la reforma estructural permite enfrentar esa dinamica
mediante (i) una expansi6n de las actividades mineras y sus efectos
multiplicadores, (ii) un significativo aumento de las recaudaciones por impuestos
mineros para financiar tanto proyectos de desarrollo en infraestructura,
educaci6n y salud como la diversificaci6n productiva regional, el mayor riesgo
para 1a sostenibilidad de la reforma emerge de su inevitable penodo de
maduracion. Cuanto mas tiempo tome la reforma minera en traducirse en
resultados perceptibles a nivel del ciudadano, los municipios y las prefecturas
del occidente del pais, mayores los peligros para su sostenibilidad.



60
Para enfrentar este riesgo se ha formulado con apoyo del Proyecto, el PNUD, el
BID y el gobiemo de Alemania, un Programa de Emergencia onentado a la
reactivaci6n del occidente bolivia'no con impactos en el corto plazo. Ademas,
dentro del proceso de reestructuraci6n de la Secretaria Nacional de Mineria se
contempla la creaci6n de una Direcci6n de Promoci6n de Inversiones con el
objetivo de aplicar una politica intensiva de difusi6n y explicaci6n de los
beneficios econ6micos, sociales y ambientales que resultaran del desarrollo
acelerado de la minerfa, objetivo final de la reforma.
La sostenibilidad de la reforma y la extensi6n de su periodo de maduraci6n
tambien dependen de la estabilidad de las nuevas reglas del juego. En tal
sentido, la prueba de fuego del proces-o de reformas implementado se dara con
el cambio de gobiemo en agosto de este anlo.
La sostenibilidad de la reforma requiere de la culminaci6n del proceso de
transferencia de las propiedades operativas de COMIBOL al sector privado.
En este sentido, la nueva administraci6n del estado, debera dar prioridad a la
transferencia al sector privado de las minas de Colquiri y Huanuni con o sin la
inclusi6n de la Empresa MetalCirgica Vinto.
En el sector minero, el riesgo de inestabilidad ha sido enfrentado durante la
aprobaci6n del nuevo C6digo de Mineria mediante la generaci6n de acuerdos
entre actores cfave (industria y regiones y estado) sobre temas conflictivos
como los requisitos para el mantenimiento de concesiones mineras, la relaci6n
entre concesionario y superficiario, la tributaci6n y la gesti6n ambiental.
9



61
PLAN PARA LA ETAPA OPERATIVA DEL PROYECTO DE REHABILITACI6N DEL
SECTOR rvMINERO
I.   Objetivos-del Proyecto
El Proyecto fue disefnado para asistir al Gobiemo en la implementacion de
su estrategia para el sector minero a traves de la creacion de un adecuado
marco legal y regulatorio, la promoci6n de nueva inversi6n privada en el
sector y la reestructuraci6n de la COMvIIBOL y de las instituciones de
servicio a la mrineria. El Proyecto fue dividido en tres componentes:
Componente CONMIBOL - Parte A, Componente Credito - Parte B y
Componente Institucional - Parte C.
El objetivo central del Proyecto fue la reestructuracion del sector acorde con
los objetivos de un Estado modemo. Para ello se estableci6 la necesidad de
contar con un marco legal-institucional adecuado, que permita lograr el
crecimiento y modernizaci6n del sector. En este sentido la elaboracion y
aprobacion de un nuevo Codigo de Mineria se constituyo en la tarea
fundamental del Proyecto. Este nuevo instrumento que permite, entre otras
cosas, atraer y garantizar la inversion privada en un ambiente eficiente y
competitivo a nivel intemacional se encuentra en vigencia desde el 17 de-
marzo de 1997.
El componente COMIBOL fue orientado a lograr la reestructuracion de la
Empresa a traves de la transferencia de sus responsabilidades operativas al
sector privado, el componente Credito buscaba incrementar los recursos
financieros destinados a inversi6n de la mineria mediana, chica y
cooperativas y el componente Institucional estuvo dirigido a reestructurar y
modernizar las Instituciones del sector. (En el anexo I -se resumen los
resultados alcanzados por cada uno de los componentes en la etapa de
ejecuci6n del Proyecto).
I



62
II.   Plan propuesto para la etapa operativa del Proyecto
El Proyecto de Rehabilitacion del Sector Minero es el pilar fundamental
para alcanzar la reestructuracion del sector en el marco de la politica
economica del gobiemo. El Plan pala la etapa operativa busca consolidar
esta nueva estructura sectorial a fin de que sea autosostenible en el tiempo.
En este contexto el Estado permanecera retirado de las actividades de
produccion minera y sus tareas primordiales sera'n las de formular politicas
sectoriales adecuadas, crear la capacidad tecnica para administrar sus
intereses a trav6s de contratos de riesgo compartido, de servicios o
arrendamiento con el sector privado, proveer informacion basica y otorgar
seguridad juridica, con el fin ultimo de crear el ambiente propicio para
lograr el desarrollo sostenido del sector a traves de Ia inversion privada. Los
alcances del Plan, cuyo cronograma de ejecucion se adjunta en el Anexo II,
para cada una de las instituciones del sector son descritos a continuacion.
2.1 COMNIBOL
2.1.1 Objetivo
El objetivo fundamental del Plan es el de culminar la puesta en marcha de Ia
nueva estructura de COMIBOL como administradora de contratos acorde
con el nuevo rol que le asigna la nueva normativa legal y de esta manera
contribuir al desarrollo sostenido del sector minero, coadyuvando a la
inversi6n privada.
2.1.2 Alcances
Para que el. objetivo pueda ser cumplido, COMIBOL debe orientar su
accionar a desarrollar su capacidad gerencial como administradora de
contratos. Este prop6sito se constituira en un accionar permanente del
futuro de COMIBOL.
2



63
Para el efecto, sobre la base de la actual estructura de la Gerencia de
Contratos y Finanzas, debera encarar las siguientes tareas especificas: i)
co'dnformar y mantener un equipo gerencial que administre las actividades de
los funcionarios y contratistas de la empresa, buscando asegurar el
cumplimiento de sus objetivos, ii) contratar servicios extemos de empresas
consultoras altamente especializadas e independientes para realizar
auditorfas de desempefio y de cumplimiento de contratos con socios
estrategicos como apoyo a la anterior tarea, iii) asegurar Ia continuidad y la
utilidad del sistema de informaci6n (financiera y de seguimiento y control
de contratos) y, iv) lievar a cabo tareas de mitigaci6n de pasivos
medioambientales.
Paralelamente, COMIBOL debe continuar promoviendo Ia participaci6n del
capital privado en sus propiedades mineras y efectivizar el
perfeccionamiento de contratos de riesgo compartido. Las tareas especificas,
en este marco, deberan estar relacionadas con: i) identificar y priorizar
.reas de interes, ii) encarar los estudios preparatorios y los terminos de
referencia para realizar las respectivas Licitaciones Piiblicas y   iii)
adjudicar, negociar contratos y Ilevar a cabo la entrega fisica de las
propiedades.
Esta actividad no debenra abarcar m'as de dos afios, periodo en el cual se
tendria que concluir con la transferencia de las responsabilidades operativas
y de inversi6n al sector privado o en su defecto la reversi6n de las
concesiones mineras no  nacionalizadas   al dominio originario del
Estado.(Ver Anexo II)
Las condiciones requeridas para Ilevar a cabo este plan son: i) que la Unidad
de Contratos se constituya en el motor central de la estructura de
COMIIBOL y, ii) que se concluya con el traspaso definitivo de todos los
bienes no necesarios para el nuevo rol de COMvIBOL al Estado boliviano o
3



64
a privados, en el marco de las nuevas disposiciones legales vigentes para el
efecto.
Esfe uiltimo condicionamiento incluye las siguientes actividades: i)
continuar con la identificacion e inventariacio'n de los bienes, ii) terminar
con el saneamiento legal de los bienes inmuebles, iii) disponer de los
mismos. Estas actividades debera.n ejecutarse preferentemente mediante
contratos de servicios. Esta tarea deberfa concluir en la presente gesti6n.
2.1.3 Metas y plazos
La nueva estructura empresarial de COTIVfBOL basada en Ia Gerencia de
Contratos y Finanzas no excedera las 60 personas en oficina central, sin
contar el personal dedicado a mantener las relaciones obrero patronales en
el periodo de liquidaci6n definitiva de las operaciones au(n en curso. Todas
las funciones no propias o ajenas al nuevo rol de COTNflBOL seran
ejecutadas mediante consultorfas privadas o empresas de servicio,
incluyendo los servicios de mantenimiento y vigilancia de las instalaciones
que pudieran quedar como remanente del proceso de privatizaci6n.
El conjunto de medidas referidas en el alcance del plan para la etapa
operativa del Proyecto eri COMIBOL sera' establecido normativamente en
un decreto supremo que consolidara la nueva estructura y el nuevo rol de
COTMIBOL definidos en el PRSM. Esta norma legal estA actualmente siendo
procesada para su aprobaci6n.
2.1.4 Estructura Orginica de COMIBOL para el cumplimiento del Plan
Las tareas descritas precedentemente seran Ilevadas a cabo con una
estructura organica modificada de COMIBOL. Dichas modificaciones
implican lo siguiente:
4



65
a)   La   Presidencia   Ejecutiva,   cuya   responsabilidad   estar'a
fundamentalmente vinculada a asegurar el exito de la COMIBOL
para concretar y perfeccionar contratos de riesgo compartido con
inversionistas privados y que producto de los mismos se obtenga una
adecuada rentabilidad para laentidad y se contribuya al desarrollo del
sector minero. Dicha responsabilidad debera estar apoyada, en lo
fundamental y operativo, por la Unidad de Contratos y Finanzas.
b)   La Unidad de Contratos y Finanzas conformada por un grupo
gerencial reducido de profesionales que hara uso intensivo de
servicios de consultoria externos para el control y seguimiento de
contratos con el sector privado.
c)   Finalmente, mantener un Directorio conforrnado por profesionales
calificados e independientes con experiencia en minenra y otros temas
de interes para COMIIBOL, cuya responsabilidad sea la de establecer
politicas y estrategias para la entidad y de ejercer el control de
gestion. Dicho Directorio sesionaria en reuniones convocadas para el
efecto.
2.1.5 Disposici6n de los excedentes de COMIIBOL
COMIBOL transferira' anualmente al Tesoro General de la Nacion (TGN) la
totalidad de sus excedentes. Estas transferencias se efectuaran de acuerdo
con las normas legales vigentes para el efecto.
Por otra parte, con el objetivo de apoyar la reactivacion economica del
occidente boliviano, particularmente de las a.reas mineras, mediante Ley No.
1786 de 19 de marzo de 1997 se dispuso la transferencia de maquinaria,
equipo, herramientas, repuestos y accesorios de COMIBOL, no necesarios
para sus operaciones, en favor de cooperativas mineras, mineros chicos,
artesanos y pequeflos industriales. Dicha enajenaci6n se harfi a precios de
5



66
mercado, mediante arrendamiento financiero o venta directa. Asimismo, en
fecha 27 de mayo de 1997 el Poder Ejecutivo promulgo el Decreto Supremo
No. 24636, a traves del cual se instruye a COMIBOL otorgar en
arrendamiento los bienes imnuebles productivos y no productivos de su
propiedad a favor de las cooperativas mineras arrendatarias de sus
yacimientos; de igual manera se instruye al Tesoro General de la Nacionkf
otorgar en arrendamiento los bienes inmnuebles transferidos por COMIBOL
a los mismos destinatarios. Tambien se instruye la transferencia a titulo
oneroso de la fundicion, maestranza y carpinteria de Catavi a favor de la
Mancomunidad de Municipios de Llallagua, Uncia y Chayanta.
2.2 Secretaria Nacional de Mineria (SiNiV1l
2.2.1. Objetivo
El objetivo fundamental del Plan es el de mantener la capacidad
institucional de la Secretaria Nacional de Mineria para formular politicas y
normas dirigidas al sector minero y para controlar su aplicaci6n, en el marco
de la politica economica del Pais.
2.2.2. Alcances
Para que el objetivo pueda ser cumplido, la SNM debe promnover la
participaci6n de un reducido grupo de profesionales idoneos para: i) defmir
y poner en vigencia politicas y normas para el sector y ii) efectuar el
seguimiento de la aplicacion de la politicas y normas en coordinacion con
las instituciones del sector: COMIBOL, SERGEO iN, SETIMIN, Minenra
Mediana, Chica y Cooperativas. En el cumplimiento de estos alcances, la
SNM  pondra enfasis en el relacionamiento de la mineria con las
comunidades locales y el respeto al medio ambiente.
6



67
Estas funciones seran responsabilidad de las Direcciones de Analisis,
Promocion de Inversiones y Medio Ambiente y se constituyen en tareas
permanentes de la SNIM.
Las condiciones necesarias para Ilevar a cabo estas finciones son mantener:
i) una politica minera de apertura a la participaci6n privada nacional y-
extranjera en el sector y ii) una politica remunerativa que asegure la
permanencia de un plantel idoneo de profesionales.
2.3 Servicio de Geologia y Mineria (SERGEOIIN)
2.3.1 Objetivo
El objetivo del Plan es concluir Ia estructuraci6n del SERGEOvlN para
generar informacion basica en los rubros de geoloaia, minerna, medio
ambiente e hidrogeologia, a los efectos de su divulaacion, amplia e
irrestricta, orientada a la promoci6n de inversiones.
2.3.2 Alcances
Para que el objetivo pueda ser cumplido, el SERGEONTN debe: i) elaborar,
actualizar y publicar, en el sistema digitalizado, la Carta Geol6gica Nacional
y mapas tematicos geol6gicos, hidrogeologicos y ambientales, ii) realizar
prospecci6n basica en areas potenciales mmeras, iii) recopilar e interpretar
informaci6n ambiental y publicar mapas regionales de linea base en areas de
interes minero, y iv) establecer la ventanilla uiThca de informacion minera
donde el inversionista pueda recoger informacion ambiental, geol6gica, y de
catastro minero.
Estas tareas son responsabilidad de los departamnentos de: Geologia y
Recursos Minerales, Mineria y Medio Ambiente, Hidrogeologia e
Informaci6n Geol6gica y Minera y se constituyen en actividades
permanentes del SERGEOMINN.
7



68
Las condiciones necesarias para llevar a cabo estas funciones son: i) que se
mantenga la actual estructura organizativa del SERGEOMIN, y ii) que se
ctienten con los recursos financieros necesarios para mantener la planta de
profesionales y el equipo necesarios.
2.3.3 Metas y plazos
El SERGEOhIIN desarrollara sus actividades orientadas a alcanzar las
siguientes metas en cinco afnos:
i) P1: Revisi6n y publicaci6n de la Carta Geol6gica: 60.000 Km2
ii) P2: Compilaci6n y publicacion de mapas tematicos: 110.400 Km2
iii) P6: Prospecci6n basica: 20.000 Km2
Adicionalmente el SERGEOMiIN  establecera la ventanilla umi ca de
informaci6n minera. En una primera fase, a partir del 30 de septiembre del
presente afno se podra acceder en pantalla a informacion de los proyectos
del SERGEOMIIN y posteriormente a traves de una red externa se podra
acceder a la informacion del centro de documentacion de COMIBOL.
2.4 Servicio Tecnico de Minas (SETMIN) - (ex-Servicio Nacional de
Catastro Minero)
2.4.1 Objetivo
El objetivo fundamental del Plan es el de consolidar la estructura y
funciones del SETMIN para dar seguridad juridica del derecho minero a los
inversionistas privados.
8



69
2.4.2 Alcances
Para que el objetivo pueda ser cumplido, la tarea fundamental del SETMIN
sera la conclusion del catastro minero en todo el territorio nacional, en
aplicaci6n del Codigo de Minenra.
Esta tarea esta bajo la responsabilidad de las Direcciones de Catastro
Minero, Servicios Tecnicos y Juridica. La conclusi6n del catastro minero y
su actualizacion se constituye en una tarea permanente.
Las condiciones necesarias para llevar a cabo esta tarea estan relacionadas
a: i) que se mantenga la estructura organico funcional de la instituci6n y ii)
que se cuente con los recursos financieros necesarios para sostener el
personal tecnico que ya fue capacitado y la renovacion del equipo
requerido.
Tambi6n es importante mencionar la elaboracion de algunas
reglamentaciones derivadas de lo dispuesto por el CUdigo de Mineria. Tales
reglamentaciones se refieren a: i) Reglamento del Registro Minero; ii)
reglamentaci6n para la Gaceta Oficial; y iii) Regimen de Control de
Patentes.
2.4.3 Metas y plazos
El catastro minero de todo el territorio nacional sera concluido hasta el 30
de junio de 1999, en tanto que los estatutos del SETMIN, asi como el
Reglamento del Registro Minero; reglamentacion para la Gaceta Oficial y
el Regimen de Control de Patentes, han sido ya concluidos.
IV.  Presupuesto y fuentes de financiamiento del Plan
Tanto el presupuesto como las fiuentes de financiamiento para la futura
operaci6n del Proyecto han sido estimados para  cada una de las
9



70
Instituciones para un periodo de 5 a-nos que comienza a partir del lro de
julio de 1997.
A continuacion se presentan los cuadros resumen respectivos.
CUADRO No.1
PRESUPUESTO OPERATIVO ESTIMADO PARA LA FUTURA OPERACI6N DEL PROYECTO-RECURSOS
INTERNOS
(En miles de Sus)
INSTITUCION     FUENTE        1997        1998      1999     2000     2001       2002
| (2do.5em) |   1998                          200      2        (1er.Sem)
COMIBOL         RecaasosPropios  4,392.01   7,998.01 12,134.01 13,735.01  16,457.01   8,233.0
S.N.M.          |TGN-Se.ClviT     457.51    907.8*  1,031.51 1,086.81   1.149.6|
SERGEOMIN   jTGN-Patentes  |    1,739.4   3,170.41  2,996.91 2,996.9   2,739.4   1,369.7
SETMIN          TGNPatenes  |    1,019.4|   1,938.2  1,817.61 1,647.5    1,708.7    426.1
TOTAL           _          I    7,608.31  14,014.41 17,980.01 19,466.21 22,054.7  10,028.8
CUADRO No. 2
PRESUPUESTO ESTIMADO DE PROYECTOS - RECURSOS EXTERNOS
(En miles de Sus.)
INSTITUCION     FUENTE        1997       1998       1999     2000     2001      2002
(2do.Sem)
TOTAL                            2,517.31  6,216.8  5716.8  51784,320.680
10



71
CUADRO No. 3
FUENTES DE FINANCIAMIENTO PARA LA FUTURA OPERACION DEL PROYECTO
(En miles de Sus.)
a) Intemas
INSTITUCION      1997       1998       1999     2000    2001      2002
(2do.Sem)
COMI80L.
Recursos           4,392.0    7,998.0 __,340  3,735.0 16,457.0   8,233.0
Propios
TOTAL          [   4,392.0j    7,998.0  12,134.01 13,735.0 16,457.0   8,233.0
S.N.M.
T.G.N.               361.6      715.8     839.51   894.8   957.6
Servicio Civil        95.9      192.0     192.0[   192.0   192.0
TOTAL                457_5_      907.81  1,031.5[ 1,086.8  1,149.6
SERGEGOMIN               I
T.G.N.               548.7    1,087.7     914.2   914.2   656.7    328.4
Patentes             478.5    1,760.0   1,760.0  1,760.0  1,760.0    880.1
Recursos             712.2      322.7     322.7   322.7   322.7    161.4
TOTAL         J    1,739.4J    3,170.4J   2,996.91 2,99691 2,739.41   1,369.9
SETMIN
T.G.N-               117.0
Patentes             874.5    1,836.0   1,734.6  1,587.5  1,648.7    412.2
Recursos              27.9      102.2      83.0    60.0    60.01      13.9
Propios                                                           _________
;       ;       '            I            =   
TOTAL          |    1,019.41   1,938.21  1,817.61 1,647.5  1,708.7    426.1
TOTAL                                             1708.71     426.111



72
CUADRO Nb. 4
FUENTES DE FINANCIAMIENTO PARA LA FUTURA OPERACION DEL PROYECTO
(En miles de $us.)
b) Extemas
INSTITUCION      1997   | 998    1 1999  |  2000     2001  |  2002
|  (2do.Sem)   |                                [
W11 ~~ ' ME WI 4-Y-f T 
8 5K  6,4. B  lO
TOTAL             |   2,517.3|   6,216.81   5,716.81  5,147.8T  4,320.4    682.0
(7) Multilateral
() Bilateral
V.   Expectativas del Plan
De cumplirse las condicionalidades senialadas en el punto III para el
funcionamiento de cada Instituci6n y mantenerse la voluntad politica para
continuar en una economia social de mercado con estabilidad institucional,
economica y fiscal, donde el sector privado se constituye en el motor del
desarrollo del pais, el exito del Plan estaria asegurado.
Los resultados esperados se traducira.n en:
Politicas y normas sectoriales adecuadas a la dinamica del desarrollo
del sector en el tiempo.
12



73
Instituciones  mineras pu'blicas  modemas  que  aseguren  una
administracion sectorial profesional y transparente
Incremento de la inversion privada en el sector minero con Ia
consecuente modernizaci6n del aparato -productivo -y la mayor
eficiencia y competitividad de la mineria Boliviana.
Conclusion de los estudios medio ambientales traducidos en la
remediacion de los impactos para precautelar el dafno a la salud
humana, la infraestructura economica y la calidad del ecosistema.
Transferencia de los excedentes econ6micos generados por la
COIvIIBOL al TGN, para apoyar al rol del Estado en las areas sociales
de salud, educacion y pobreza.
13



74
ANEXO I
*.           Principales Resultados del Proyecto
Componente COMIBOL
Para Ilevar a cabo la reestructuracion de la COMIBOL, a traves de la
transferencia de sus responsabilidades operativas al sector privado, se
disenlo el Plan de Reestructuracion Econo'mica (PRE).
Las primeras medidas que se tomaron en base al PRE fueron: i) la
racionalizacion de personal mediante retiro voluntario, que permitio la
reducci6n del personal de la COMIBOL de 6,126 empleados a fines de 1991
a 1,476 a fines de 1996 (red-cci6n neta de 4,650 personas), ii) el cierre de
operaciones no rentables (actualmente las operaciones de la COMIBOL se
limitan a dos centros mineros: Huanuni y Colquiri y iii) la reorganizacion de
la empresa poniendo enfasis en el fortalecimiento de la Unidad de Contratos
y Finanzas que servirai de base para el establecimiento de la nueva
COMIBOL. Dentro de esta Unidad se ha implementado un nuevo sistema
de informaci6n que incluye los sistemas financiero y de control de contratos
que ha permitido el saneamiento contable y fmanciero de la COMIBOL.
Actualmente la transferencia de las responsabilidades operativas de la
COMIBOL al sector privado se encuentra en plena etapa de ejecucion. A la
fecha la COMIBOL tiene firmados 18 contratos de riesgo compartido o
arrendamiento con el sector privado para la explotaci6n o exploraci6n con
opci6n de explotaci6n de sus propiedades mineras, con una inversion
comprometida de 64 millones de d6lares. Entre los mas importantes se
encuentran los riesgos compartidos en las minas de Bolivar, Tasna, Moroco,
El Asiento y los contratos de arrendamiento de Porco y relaves Itos. Por otra
parte, se ha concluido con las auditorias ambientales en 28 operaciones de
COMIBOL.
15



75
Resta auin concluir la capitalizacion de la E.M. Vinto, con opcion de
contratos de riesgo compartido o arrendamiento para los centros mineros de
Huanuni y Colquiri. Este proceso debia haber finalizado el 27 de junio con
la presentacion de ofertas economicas por parte de las empresas
preseleccionadas; sin embargo, probablemente debido a circunstancias de
cara.cter social que se dieron en Huanuni en dias previos, ninguna de las
empresas precalificadas hizo Ilegar su oferta econ6mica, habiendose
declarado desierta la licitacion intemacional. Ante esta eventualidad, el
Gobierno decidio recomendar a la nueva administracion del pais la
culminacion de este proceso vital para la reactivaci6n de la mineria del
estafio. Una vez finalizado este proceso, la COMIBOL se retirara de las
actividades productivas y se dedicara' exclusivamente a la administracion de
contratos firmados y por firmarse con el sector privado y a la conclusion de
las tareas de liquidacion de sus activos no mineros, en concordancia con las
nuevas funciones que le asigna el recientemente promulgado C6digo de
Mineria.
Componente Credito
Este componente estuvo orientado a mejorar el acceso al credito para
inversion de la mineria mediana, chica y cooperativizada, a traves de la
creacion de una linea de credito manejada por el Banco Central de Bolivia
para ser canalizada hacia estos sectores a trav6s de la Banca Comercial.
Debido fundamentalmente a problemas estructurales del sector fmanciero
del pais, este componente no tuvo ningiin resultado satisfactorio,
habiendose otorgado durante la duraci6n del Proyecto un solo credito, por
un monto de $us 248,700.
Componente Institucional
La tarea fundamental de este componente faie la reestructuracion y
modemizaci6n de las instituciones estatales de servicio del sector.
16



76
Actualmente el sector esta conformado por las siguientes instituciones: (i)
Secretaria Nacional de Mineria (SNM) que se constituye en el 6rgano rector
del sector, cuyas funciones especificas estan relacionadas a la formulacion y
seguimiento de politicas y normas adecuadas a la politica economica del
Gobiemo, (ii) Servicio Tecnico de Minas-SETMIIN (ex-Servicio Nacional
de Catastro Minero-SENCAM) y: (iii) Servicio de Geologia y Mineria
(SERGEOMN).
La estructuracion del SENCAM, actual SETMIN, se constituyo en uno de
los principales instrumentos de la politica minera del pais para asegurar la
inversion privada en el sector. Su principal tarea es la de levantar el catastro
minero nacional a fin de lograr un registro ordenado de las concesiones,
otorgar seguridad juridica a las mismas y determinar con precisi6n las areas
francas para futuras peticiones. Desde mediados de 1996, el SETMIIN se
encuentra Ilevando a cabo las tareas correspondientes al establecimiento del
catastro minero, el mismo que abarca todo el territorio nacional y cuya
duracion fue estimada en 4 afios.
La creacion de SERGEOMIM respondio a la necesidad de lograr mayor
eficiencia en el fuincionamiento de las instituciones que prestan servicios al
sector. Sus funciones est'an relacionadas exclusivamente a la generaci6n y
difusion irrestricta de informacion basica geologica, medio ambiental y
minera. En este marco se actualiz6 y publico la Carta Geologica Nacional,
mapas tematicos y memorias explicativas y resultados de la geofisica
aerotransportada y mapas geoquimicos en el Precambrico, productos que
estfn dirigidos a fomentar actividades de exploraci6n. En la parte Medio
Ambiental, se organizo con asistencia tecnica sueca, el funcionamiento del
Proyecto Piloto Oruro- PPO, con el objetivo central de elaborar un Plan
Maestro Ambiental que permita promover el desarrollo sostenible de la
mineria e industria en el Departamento de Oruro.
17



77
ANEXO II
Cronograma de Ejecuci6n del Plan
Etapa Operativa del Proyecto
1997     1998      1999      2000      2001    2002
(2ndo sem)                                       (I er sem)
COMIBOL
- Administradora de contratos
- Transferencia de las responsabilidades
operativas al sector privado
- Disposici6n de bienes no necesarios
(bienes inmuebles)
SECRETARIA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
- Formulaci6n de poifticas y normas
sectoriales
SERGEOMIN
- Elaboraci6n y publicaci6n de informaci6n
de base
SETMIN
- Elaboraci6n y actualizaci6n del Catastro
Minero



