Page  1
February 8, 1991
Mr. Enrique Garcia Rodriguez
Ministro de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:
Credit 2013-BO (Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement for the abovereferenced 
Project, between the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association), dated August 4, 1989, as amended.
I am pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to your request to 
amend such Agreement. Therefore, the Association proposes the following amendments 
thereto:
I.
Section 1.02 is amended by adding a new paragraph to read as follows:
"(b) 'Special Account' means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(c) of this Agreement."
II.
Section 2.02 is amended by adding a new paragraph to read as follows:
"(c)
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special account in its central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made, in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
III.
Section 4.01 (b) subparagraph (i) is amended to read as follows:
"(i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, including those for the special Account, for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association."
IV.
A new schedule is introduced to read as follows:
"SCHEDULE 5"
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (a) set. 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
Page  2
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been pai d out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
6.
(a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (1i) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or (B) deposit into the special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  3
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General conditions. 
Please confirm your agreement to the above amendment-by signing and dating 
the enclosed copy of this letter in the spaces provided below. This amendment shall 
be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your 
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to the Bank. This amendment 
shall become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the Bank of 
one fully executed original of this amendment.
Because of their interest in this matter, a copy of this letter is being sent 
to Banco Central de Bolivia and to Corporacion Minera de Bolivia.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Country Director, Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED: 
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date: February 28, 1991
cc:
Mr. Raul Boada R.
Presidente
Banco Central de bolivia
Casilla 31118
La Paz, Bolivia
Mr. David Ancieta B. 
Presidente 
Corporacion Minera de Bolivia 
Casilla 349 
La Paz, Bolivia
