Page  1
July 30, 1991
Senor Lic. Enrique Garcia Rodriguez
Ministro de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
Ministerio de Planeamiento y Coordinacion
La Paz
Bolivia
Senor Lic. Raul Boada Rodriguez
Presidente
Banco Central
Casilla 3118
La Paz
Bolivia
Re:
Credit No. 2013-BO
(Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
Amendment
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between Republic 
of Bolivia (the Borrower) and international Development Association (the 
Association) and the Central Bank Project Agreement between the 
Association and Banco Central de Bolivia (the Central Bank) for the 
above-referenced Project, both dated August 4, 1989, as amended.
Terms defined in Section 1. 02 of the Development Credit Agreement 
when used herein shall have the same meaning set forth in such Section.
I would like to inform you that the Association agrees to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement and the Central Bank Project Agreement for 
purposes of changing the interest rates applicable to Sub-loans and to 
Central Bank Loans. Therefore, the following amendments are proposed:
I.
In the Development Credit Agreement
(a)
Section 1.02 is amended by deleting paragraph (aa) therefrom 
and inserting the following new paragraphs (aa), (bb) and (cc) thereto to 
read as follows:
"(aa) 'Regulation' means the Central Bank's Reglamento para 
Subasta de Creditos Destinados al Desarrollo (Regulation for 
Development Credit Auction), issued in November 1990;
(bb) 'Development Credit Auction' means any of the auctions 
carried out by the Central Bank among financial institutions in 
Bolivia for purposes of allocating funds obtained from 
international or foreign lending entities and determining the 
interest rate applicable to the loans made by the Central Bank to  such 
financial institutions with such funds, including the 
Central 
Bank Loans; and
(cc) 'Certificate of Deposit Rate, means the weighted 
average of the nominal interest rates paid by the Central Bank 
and the other financial institutions in Bolivia on certificates 
of deposit issued by the Central Bank and such other institutions 
during the period of four our weeks prior to the date on which 
the Central Bank Loan is made, as such rates are published by the 
Central Bank in daily newspapers in Bolivia."
(b)
Section 5.01 is amended by inserting the following new 
paragraph (1) thereto to read as follows:.
"(1) the nominal interest rates on the certificates of 
deposit referred to in Section 1.02 (cc) of this Agreement (other 
than those issued by the Central Bank) shall have ceased, in the 
opinion of the Association, to be freely determined by the 
financial institutions issuing such certificates of deposit."
Page  2
(c)
Section 5.02 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"(b) any event specified in paragraphs (g) or (1) of  Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and".
II.
In the Central Bank Project Agreement
(a)
Article II is amended by inserting the following new Section 
2.11 thereto to read as follows:
"Section 2.11. The Central Bank shall, for purposes of any 
Development Credit Auction, establish as a floor for the interest 
rate to be offered by financial institutions participating in 
such Auction a rate which shall be not lower than the Certificate 
of Deposit Rate."
(b)
Schedule 1 is amended by replacing subparagraph (a) of 
paragraph (1) thereof by the following new subparagraph (a):
"(a) the interest rate applicable to each Central Bank Loan 
shall be the rate referred to in Article 19 of the Regulation, 
which in no case shall be lower than the Certificate of Deposit 
Rate."
(c)
Schedule 2 is amended by replacing paragraph I (d) thereof 
by the following new paragraph I (d):
"(d) Interest Rate: the Eligible Miner shall pay interest 
on the principal amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding 
at a rate per annum to be freely determined between the Financial 
Intermediary and the Eligible Miner, with due regard to the 
economic and risk characteristics of the Investment Project, 
Working Capital or Financial Restructuring for which such 
Sub-loan is made."
Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by 
signing and dating this letter in the space provided below. Upon 
confirmation by the Borrower and the Central Bank, please return one 
fully executed original to us. The provisions of this amendment letter 
will become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by the 
Association of the above-cited fully executed original.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John M. Page Jr.
Acting Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Samuel Doria Medina Auza
Authorized Representative
CONFIRMED:
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ 
Presidente
Date:
September 11, 1991
Page  3
