Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2013 BO
(Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CORPORACION MINERA DE BOLIVIA
Dated August 4, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2013 BO
COMIBOL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and CORPORACION MINERA DE BOLIVIA (COMIBOL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-six million five hundred thousand   Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,500,000), 
the terms and conditions set forth  in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that COMIBOL agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement (the COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to 
be entered into between the Borrower and COMIBOL, part of the proceeds of the Credit 
will be made available to COMIBOL on the terms and  conditions set forth in the said 
COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS COMIBOL, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake  the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever used in this 
Agreement, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble 
to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as  defined in the Development Credit 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term "Fiscal Year" 
means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of COMIBOL's fiscal year which 
period coincides with the period October 1 to September 31 of each year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. COMIBOL declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and,  to this end, 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, mining and 
environmental practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall  be governed by the provisions of 
Section I and II of Schedule 3 to the  Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. COMIBOL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
A of the Project.
Section 2.04. COMIBOL shall enter into the COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (d) of the 
Development Credit Agreement, and shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the  Association shall otherwise agree, 
COMIBOL shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or  waiving the COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) COMIBOL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A  of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the COMIBOL Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
COMIBOL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of  the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the  performance by COMIBOL of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the COMIBOL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, COMIBOL 
shall:
(a)
establish and maintain, in a form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association a project coordination unit in COMIBOL (the COMIBOL  Project Coordination 
Unit) to, among other things, supervise the day-to-day  implementation of Part A of 
the Project; and
(b)
appoint a project coordinator (the COMIBOL Project Coordinator) having 
qualifications and experience and terms of employment all satisfactory to the 
Association to head the COMIBOL Project Coordination Unit.
Section 2.07. For the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, COMIBOL 
shall:
(a)
not later than September 30, 1989, prepare and submit, or cause to be 
prepared and submitted, to the Association, the following:
(i)
a detailed program of: (A) mine works to be carried out to reduce 
the operating costs of the mines included in Part A.1 of the 
Project; and (B) exploration and mine development works to be 
carried out in such mines;
Page  3
(ii)
terms of reference, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the carrying out of: (A) 
the studies referred to in Part A (1) (c) (i) of the Project; (B) 
the studies referred to in Part A (1) (c) (ii) of the Project; and 
(C) the studies referred to in Part A (1) (c) (iii) of the 
Project;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1991, review with the Association: (i) the 
results of the programs referred to in Section 2.07 (a) of this Agreement in respect 
of the following mines: San Jose, San Vicente, Unificada, Caracoles and Viloco; and 
(ii) the results of the studies referred to in Section 2.07 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement; and
(c)
promptly thereafter carry out the programs and findings of the studies 
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, modified as needed to take into 
account the comments made by the Association thereon.
Section 2.08. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, COMIBOL 
shall, not later than June 30, 1990, prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and 
submitted, to the Association, and thereafter carry out or cause to  be carried out, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the following:
(a)
a plan of action, acceptable to the Association, for the compliance by 
COMIBOL with all applicable occupational health and safety rules and regulations of 
the Borrower, and for the improvement of working  conditions in COMIBOL's mines and 
related facilities; and
(b)
a training program for purposes of Part A (2) (b) (i) of the Project and 
a program for the development of the managerial and technical skills of its workforce.
Section 2.09. (a) Not later than January 31, 1990, and annually thereafter at 
the request of the Association, representatives of COMIBOL shall meet with 
representatives of the Association for the purposes of  reviewing the status of 
COMIBOL's then operational and non-operational  mining properties. COMIBOL shall take 
all action necessary to enter  promptly into joint venture arrangements, leasing 
arrangements, management  arrangements or other contractual arrangements, or any 
combination thereof, with third parties in respect of its non-operational mining 
concessions. In the event COMIBOL does not successfully conclude any such arrangement, 
within a reasonable time therefrom COMIBOL shall take all action necessary  to apply 
the provisions of the Mining Code (Decreto Supremo of May 7, 1965),  as such code may 
be revised, including, but without limitation to, the provisions of Titles VI and VII 
thereof for the treatment of said concessions.
(b)
COMIBOL shall promptly take all action necessary to comply with the 
provisions of Supreme Decree No. 21377 of August 25, 1986, and in particular with the 
provisions of Title VI thereof, in respect of its unprofitable mines.
Section 2.10. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, COMIBOL 
shall, not later than June 30, 1990:
(a)
establish, and thereafter maintain, a compensation scheme, acceptable to 
the Association, for middle and senior level managers, which scheme shall be 
consistent with the Borrower's public sector compensation policies; and
(b)
establish and thereafter maintain a special unit in COMIBOL, in a  form 
and with staffing and functions all satisfactory to the Association, for the purposes 
of carrying out Part A (3) of the Project.
Section 2.11. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.10 (a) above, 
COMIBOL shall: (i) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, maintain a permanent 
workforce which shall not be increased by more than  ten percent (10%) above its 
permanent workforce determined as of December  31, 1988; and (ii) at all times apply 
to its personnel employment and wage  rules and policies which shall be consistent 
with the promotion of COMIBOL's economic and financial viability.
Section 2.12. (a) COMIBOL shall prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and 
submitted, to the Association an environmental protection program, acceptable to the 
Association, for, inter alia, the disposal of  liquid and solid waste generated by 
COMIBOL's mining and related  operations, which program shall consist of an action 
plan and an implementation schedule.
Page  4
(b)
COMIBOL shall carry out the environmental protection program referred to 
in paragraph (a) above in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.13. COMIBOL shall enter with the Borrower into the agreement referred 
to in Section 3.05 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, and  shall perform all its 
obligations therein set forth in accordance with the  terms and conditions of such 
agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of COMIBOL
Section 3.01. COMIBOL shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, managerial,  engineering, mining and 
environmental practices under the supervision of  qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. COMIBOL shall at all times operate and maintain its mines, plants, 
facilities, machinery, equipment and other property, and from  time to time, promptly 
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals  thereof, all in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, managerial, engineering, mining and environmental 
practices.
Section 3.03. COMIBOL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such  
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) COMIBOL shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts adequate to reflect all resources 
and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project.
(b)
COMIBOL shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request; and
(iv)
without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
above, not later than June 30, 1990, furnish to the Association, 
COMIBOL's financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for its Fiscal Years 
1987, 1988 and 1989 audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, COMIBOL shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.2.
(b)
Before June 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, COMIBOL shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by COMIBOL and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in  respect of such year and the next 
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
Page  5
(c)
If any such review shows that COMIBOL would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) above for COMIBOL's Fiscal Years covered by such review, 
COMIBOL shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve (12) months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable 
to operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year;
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve (12) months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends;
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt; and
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, COMIBOL shall 
not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity 
shall be greater than 50 to 50.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of COMIBOL maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred;
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into;
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained earnings and reserves of COMIBOL not allocated 
to cover specific liabilities; and
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made as stipulated in 
Section 4.02 (d)(iv) of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, COMIBOL shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
COMIBOL shows that the estimated net revenues of COMIBOL for each Fiscal Year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred  shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt 
service requirements of COMIBOL in such year on all debt of COMIBOL including the debt 
to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" has the same meaning stipulated in Section 4.03 
(b)(i) of this Agreement, and the manner by which debt shall be 
deemed to be incurred shall be the same as stipulated in Section 
4.03 (b)(ii) of this Agreement;
(ii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
Page  6
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking funds payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(v)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
COMIBOL not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Association and 
COMIBOL accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has 
notified COMIBOL of its acceptability, provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of COMIBOL.
(vi)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made as stipulated in 
Section 4.02 (d)(iv) of this Agreement.
Section 4.05 (a) Not later than December 31 of each of its Fiscal Years, COMIBOL 
shall prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and  submitted, for the 
Association's approval its proposed operating and  investment budget for its 
immediately following Fiscal Year, which budget  shall include financial projections 
and foreign currency requirements in  respect of COMIBOL's operations for the 
corresponding Fiscal Year.
(b)
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, COMIBOL shall neither 
commit to undertake nor carry out any investments in fixed assets related to its 
operations, which investments shall be estimated to cost in the aggregate more than 
the equivalent of five million dollars ($5,000,000) in excess of the amounts budgeted 
under COMIBOL's operating and investment budget for the corresponding Fiscal Year 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
COMIBOL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,  the 
Association shall promptly notify COMIBOL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Page  7
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 440098 
(ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For COMIBOL:
Corporacion Minera de Bolivia
Casilla: 349
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
COMIBOL
242 COMIBOL BV
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of COMIBOL, or by 
COMIBOL on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by the President and  General Manager of COMIBOL or such other person or 
persons as the President and General Manager of COMIBOL shall designate in writing, 
and COMIBOL shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION MINERA DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ Carlos Delius
Authorized Representative
Page  8
