Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2013 BO
(Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
Dated August 4, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2013 BO
CENTRAL BANK PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1989 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA (the Central Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-six million five hundred thousand   Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,500,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Central Bank agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Central Bank subsidiary loan agreement (the Central Bank Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Central Bank, part of the 
proceeds of the Credit will be made available to the Central Bank on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the said Central Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Central Bank, in consideration of the Association's entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed  to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as defined in the Development Credit  Agreement) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Central Bank declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part B of the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with sound financial  standards and practices, with qualified management 
and personnel and in  accordance with the Charter and the Credit Guidelines.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall  be governed by the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Central Bank shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and  schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and Part 
B of the Project.
Section 2.04. The Central Bank shall enter into the Central Bank Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (f) of 
the Development Credit Agreement, and shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Central Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Central  Bank shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Central Bank Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. The Central Bank shall enter into Participating Agreements with 
the Financial Intermediaries in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and shall duly perform all its 
obligations under the Participating Agreements.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Central Bank shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Participating 
Agreements, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) The Central Bank shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this  Agreement, and under the 
Central Bank Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the  performance of its obligations and 
those of the Financial Intermediaries under the Participating Agreements, as well as 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Central Bank shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Central 
Bank of its obligations under this  Agreement, the Central Bank Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, or the Participating Agreements.
Section 2.07. (a) The Central Bank undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with the Credit Guidelines and 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
(b)
The Central Bank shall exercise its rights in relation to each  
Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the  Association and 
the Financial Intermediaries; (ii) comply with its  obligations under this Agreement 
and the Central Bank Subsidiary Loan  Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 2.08. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Central 
Page  3
Bank shall: (a) prepare and submit, or cause to be prepared and  submitted, for the 
Association's approval credit guidelines (the Credit  Guidelines) setting forth the 
terms and conditions for the provision of  credit under Parts B (1) and (2) of the 
Project; and (b) appoint an administrator for Part B of the Project within the DCD  
with qualifications and experience and terms of employment, all satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 2.09. The Central Bank shall, not later than June 30, 1990 prepare and 
submit, or cause to be prepared and submitted, to the Association a feasibility study, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the  establishment and maintenance of a fund (the 
Guarantee fund) to guarantee  the repayment of Sub-loans by the Eligible Miners to the 
Financial Intermediaries.
Section 2.10. The Central Bank shall, from time to time as the Association may 
request, review with the Association the status of implementation of Part B of the 
Project, including the adequacy of the onlending terms, and in particular the interest 
rate, set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Central Bank shall maintain, or cause to be  maintained, 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, monitor and  record all resources 
and expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project  and of each Investment Project 
and Financial Restructuring (including its  cost and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom), and the financial condition of each Financial Intermediary.
(b)
The Central Bank shall:
 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the said financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. The Central Bank shall take such steps, satisfactory to  the 
Association, as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting 
from changes in the rates of exchange between the various  currencies (including 
Bolivianos) used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Central Bank thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,  the 
Association shall promptly notify the Central Bank of this event.
Page  4
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Central Bank:
Banco Central
Casilla 3118
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
2575 NAVIANA BAY
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Central 
Bank, or by the Central Bank on behalf of the  Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by  the President of the Central Bank or such 
other person or persons as the President of the Central Bank shall designate in 
writing, and the Central Bank shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority  and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
Page  5
By /s/ Carlos Delius
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of
Participating Agreements
The Participating Agreements shall contain:
(1)
the terms and conditions of the Central Bank Loans which shall be the same as 
those set forth for Sub-loans in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, except that: (a) the 
interest rate applicable to the Central Bank Loans  shall be the LIBOR rate plus one 
(1) percentage point; and (b) the Central Bank Loans shall finance up to 80% of the 
Investment Project, Working Capital or Financial Restructuring costs, and up to 89% of 
the Sub-loan in question; 
(2)
the terms for Sub-loans and Investment Projects and Financial Restructuring 
appraisals, and supervision guidelines, reporting requirements, accounting, auditing 
and procurement, including those set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement;
(3)
the Financial Intermediaries' undertaking to: (a) maintain separate records and 
accounts to reflect, in accordance with consistently   maintained sound accounting 
practices, their operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B (1) and 
(2) of the Project; (b) have the records and accounts referred to in (a) above and the 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the  
Association; and (c) furnish to the Association, through the Central Bank, not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each fiscal year, certified  copies of their 
financial statements for such year as so audited and the report of such audit by said 
auditors.
SCHEDULE 2
Procedures for and Terms and
Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
(a)
Amount: Each Sub-loan shall not exceed (i) 90% of the cost of  Financial 
Restructuring or the Investment Project; (ii) $500,000 per  Eligible Miner for 
Financial Restructuring; (iii) $200,000 per Eligible Miner for Investment Projects and 
(iv) $160,000 per Eligible Miner for Working Capital.
(b)
Currency: Sub-loans shall be denominated in dollars and disbursed and 
repaid in Bolivianos.
(c)
Repayment Period: The repayment period shall not exceed: (i) ten (10) 
years, including a grace period not to exceed three (3) years for  Sub-loans other 
than Working Capital Sub-loans; and (ii) three (3) years, including a grace period of 
one (1) year for Working Capital Sub-loans.
(d)
Interest Rate: The Eligible Miner shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Sub-loan withdrawn and outstanding at the LIBOR rate plus a spread not 
to exceed six (6) percentage points.
2.
No expenditures for goods or services or for Working Capital shall be eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Association and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date 
on which the Association shall have received the application and information required 
under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the 
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and such  expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior  to the date on which the 
Association shall have received the request and information required under paragraph 3 
(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of the 
Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be any 
Page  6
Sub-loan which is received by the Association after five (5) other Sub-loans have been 
approved by the Association, in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit which shall not exceed the amount of (i) (A) $200,000 equivalent, for Sub-loans 
for Investment Projects or Working Capital Sub-loans, and (B) $300,000 equivalent for 
Sub-loans for Financial Restructuring, when added to any other outstanding amounts 
financed or  proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (ii) 
$500,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject 
to change from time to time as determined by the Association.
3.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-loan) to the 
Association for approval, the Central Bank shall furnish to the Association an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description 
of the Eligible Miner and an appraisal of  the Investment Project or Financial 
Restructuring, including a description   of the expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and  conditions of the 
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-loan; and (iii) such other 
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Central Bank for authorization to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a 
summary description of the Eligible Miner, and the  Investment Project or the 
Financial Restructuring, as the case may be, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before June 30, 1994.
4.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Intermediaries shall 
obtain, by written contract with the Eligible Miner or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and the Central 
Bank, including, in the case of any Sub-loan, the right to:
(a)
require the Eligible Miner to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project and the Financial Restructuring, as the case may be, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial  and managerial standards 
and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of 
other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the 
goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the 
case of works, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them; (ii) 
such goods  and works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment 
Project and the Financial Restructuring, as the case may be; and (iii) the conditions 
set forth in Section III of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, as 
applicable, shall be complied with;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the  Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Investment Project and Financial Restructuring, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Eligible Miners shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such  amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business  practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover  hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Eligible Miner to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, the Central Bank  or the 
Financial Intermediaries shall reasonably request relating to the  foregoing and to 
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Eligible Miner and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project or the Financial Restructuring; 
and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Miner to the use  of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Eligible Miner to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
Page  7
