Report No. 518a-SE
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project
in Senegal
December 27, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Western Afrnca Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup It may not
be pubiîshed, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorîzation The Bank Group does
not accept responsiblity for the accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
uS$  1.00                C CFAF 240
CFAF 1,000      =        US$  4.2
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
kilometer (km)                 0.62 mile
square kilometer (km2) =       0.386 square mi:le
meter (m)               =      3.28 feet
square meter (m2)       =     10.76 square feet
hectare (ha)            =      2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......     .................... i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................      1
Physical and Economic Environment .... .......    2
Employment Requirements and Output from
the Education System .....      ..................    2
II.   ASSESSMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'S EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ............................    4
III.   THE PROJECT ......................................      7
General ...................................    7
Lower-Secondary Program .....     ................  8
Vocational Training and Upgrading Programs ..   10
Nonformal Education ......     ...................   12
Educational Planning and Management .... .....   15
Pre-investment Study of Alternatives to
Primary Education ......     ....................   16
Cost of the Project ......     ...................   16
Technical Assistance ...................... 20
Evaluation   ..................................   20
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION ...................................   21
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....     ........   22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Senegal in May/June 1973. The mission members were Mr. M. J. Wilson (General
educator), Ms. M. Grosse (specialist in primary educational/anthropologist),
Messrs. R. Brigish (economist), J. Crosnier (agricultural education) and
K. Vogel (architect). Mr. S. Denning (Loan Officer) participated in the
mission's work and discussions with the government.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
APPENDICES
I.   The Education and Training System
II. Nonformal Education (Enseignement Moyen Pratique)
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Vocational Upgrading Center (CFPP) - Anticipated Annual
Loads for Upgrading/Training
3.   Cost of the Project
4.   Cost per Student Place
5.   Contingency Allowances
6.   Implementation, Expenditure and Disbursement Schedule
7.   Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
8508 Senegal: Structure of the Education System
8509 Senegal: Distribution of Enrollments, 1971/72
MAP
3236 IBRD Senegal - Education Project



GLCSS AR
CEG - Col'3,e d'Enseignemient Général        Lower secondary school preparing
students for the school 1eavinrg
examination
CEM - Centre d'Dnseignement Ménager          Nonformal dor.estic science training
center for literate and illiterate
girls
CFPP - Centre de Formation et de             Vocation«j training and upgre,dinrg center
Perfectionnement Permanent                   center
CLAD - Centre de Linguistique                The Bakpar A.pDlIed Liînguistics Center
Appliquée de Dakar
CQID - Centre de Qualification               Vocptional training ,and upgrading
Industriel de Dakar                          center
CR - Ccmmunauté Rurale                       New adainistrotive grouping, of villages
MPH - Délégation Générale à  'a              ihe Government agenc, respcns'be for
Promotion Humaine                            norformal education ard human resources
developnent
DGT - Délégation Générale au Tourisme    Prime Linister fa Office or Agercv
responsible for Tourism,
Ecole Nationale de Formation Maritime    National NMarine Trainin- School
EMP - Enseignement M.oyen Pratique           A noncrri  tractical educat-on progrc:;
ILO                                          Internaotional Lalhour ;ffice
flH{I   Institut de Recherches dans          Institute fcr Researcn intc the Tecching
'Enseignem.ent des Mathéma ticoues           of Mathema tics
IRFED - institut de Recherches et de         Institute for Research and '2raining for
Formation en vue du Développement            Ccordinated Develop ent, c French
Harmonisé                                    consulting firm
IUT - Institut Universitcire de              A universit-y diplc*i-level tecihnician
Technologie                                  trainin- institute, linked to industry
MLDR - Hinistère du Développemient 1bral   Rural Developrent Ministry
Petite Cete                                  A beac'-lined coastel area extending
some 70 km. to the south of Dakar






SENEGAL
1/
BASIC DATA
Population (1972)                                 4.1 million
Population Annual Growth Rate                     about 2.2%
GNP per capita (1971)                             US$250
Modern Sector Employment                          135,000
Enrollments
Levels of Education         Student Numbers            Unadjusted
Enrollment Ratio-
Primary (1971/72)            270,000                  38%
Lower Secondary               49,000                  15À
Upper Secondary                8,540 40
Higher Education               2,800 (Senegalese)      -
Lxpenditures on Education and Training
Public recurrent expenditures on education
and training as a percentage of total
recurrent expenditures                          25.1%
Total public expenditures on education
and training as a percentage of GDP              4.0%
Â/ Comparative education data in Annex 1.
2/ As percentage of age-group (Appendix I).






SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project for Senegal, for
which an IDA credit of US$15.0 million is proposed.
ii.       The first project (Credit 253-SE for US$2.0 million, signed on
July 18, 1971) consists of the construction and equipment of a post-secondary
level technology institute; equipment and rehabilitation of one agricultural
and two upper secondary technical schools; and equipment for a reorganized
Merchant Marine School. The project would have been broader in scope if
evolving plans for educational reform had been further advanced at the time
of its appraisal. Since this was not yet the case, the first project was
small in size and its objectives were confined to improving technical and
agricultural education from a qualitative standpoint and expanding the supply
of technicians for industry and commerce. There have been some delays in
implementation, due primarily to the late appointment of architectural
consultants and disagreements on design specifications for physical facilities,
but these have now been overcome and progress is generally satisfactory. To
avoid similar delays in implementing the second project the sum earmarked
in Credit 253-SE for the Merchant Marine School was reallocated to finance
architectural and consultant services for the second project.
iii.      The major challenges currently confronting the education system
in Senegal are the needs (a) for new programs and for qualitative improve-
ment of existing ones to meet the employment requirements of the modern
sector; (b) for training programs to promote rural development, on which
some 75 percent of the population are likely to depend for many years to
come; (c) the expansion of basic educational opportunities to a greater
proportion of the population than the 38 percent of the age-group now
reached by primary education; and (d) the strengthening of planning and
management, consistent with the human and financial resources which the
education system is likely to command.
iv.       The proposed project would address these challenges in the
following ways:
(a) Implementation of the first phase of a lower-secondary
school reform, the primary objectives of which are to
expand and strengthen the teaching of science and prac-
tical subjects, and to improve the qualifications of
students entering upper-secondary general, technical
and vocational programs, and of those students who leave
to enter the labor market directly. Specifically, the
project would finance:



- ii -
(i) construction and equipping of four new schoo:Ls
(replacing inadequate existing buildings), in-
cluding the workshop and Laboratory facilitiles
needed to implement the new curriculum; and
(ii) construction and equipping of eleven centers for
practical science, technology and domestic science
instruction, to serve 31 existing schools located
in areas where short distances between schools
permit more efficient sharing of such facil-
ities, and related specialist services.
(b) The provision of vocational training opportunities in carefully
defined areas, by:
(i) constructing and equipping a training center to
upgrade the skills of industrial employees and
self-employed workers, and related specialist
services;
(ii) constructing and equipping a training center and
"hotel d'application" for the tourism industry,
which would train new employees and upgrade exist-
ing personnel; and
(iii) equipping and carrying out minor constructicin for
the existing National Marine Training Schoo]..
(c) Implementation of an experimental first phase of a national pro-
gram to establish a network of low-cost rural education cernters to offer
primary school leavers and youths who have never attended primary school with
a blend, as appropriate in each case, of practical training in agricultural
and related occupations and of literacy and nuraeracy. The centers would
also be used in the evenings for adult education. Specifically, this pro-
gram would include:
(i)  the construction and equipping of 30 centers in
villages which are already participating in
production-related rural development prograxas;
(ii) equipment for an instructor training center; and
(iii)  specialist services to aid in program development
and instructor training.
(d)  The provision of specialist services for:
(i)  planning, management and program evaluation to
strengthen the Directorate of Research and Planning
in the Ministry of Education and the Huraan Resources
Division in the Ministry of the Plan;



- iii -
(ii) a pre-investment study of low-cost alternatives
to primary education, which would draw heavily
on the experience of the rural education centers'
program, described in (c) above; and
(iii) project administration and the design of a third
education project.
v.        Project administration would be performed by the project unit for
Credit 253-SE, in cooperation with sub-project managers who have been ap-
pointed by the Ministry of Education, the Agency for Human Resource Devel-
opment and the Tourism Agency. The unit, headed by the Director of Public
Works, has been strengthened by the appointment of a deputy director and a
site supervisor. The unit would administer physical implementation and fur-
nish technical services to the sub-project managers, who in turn would be
responsible for the decisions relative to design and equipment specifications,
determination of specialist requirements and all pedagogical aspects of the
project.
vi.       Orders for furniture, equipment and didactic materials, estimated
to cost about US$2.5 million, would be bulked where possible to be at least
US$100,000 and contracts would be placed following international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Small orders of less than
US$5,000, to an aggregate of US$150,000, would be placed following quotations
obtained from local suppliers. A preference of 15 percent or the prevailing
tariff. whichever is lower, would be given to local manufacturers of equip-
ment, furniture and didactic materials. Civil works contracts for the con-
struction of the 47 buildings required for schools, estimated to cost about
US$7.6 million, would be widely dispersed and too small to attract the in-
terest of overseas bidders.  Such contracts would therefore be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, _advertised locally, in accordance
with local procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
vii.      Total project costs are estimated at US$21.2 million, corresponding
to US$19.0 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$8.1
million. The proposed IDA credit of US$15.0 million equivalent would cor-
respond to 79 percent of total project costs, net of taxes. The project
would be completed in approximately six years.
viii.     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$15.0 million equivalent.






SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Certain elements of the proposed second education project, notably
the improvement of lower secondary education through the introduction of more
comprehensive and practical programs, have been developed progressively
since 1969, when a Unesco project identification mission visited Senegal.
This project as presently defined thus resulted from the joint efforts of
Senegal, Unesco and the Bank/IDA, including appraisal in October 1970 of the
first project (Credit 253-SE), and planning and detailed project preparation
assistance by Unesco in November 1972 and April 1973, respectively. The
project was subsequently appraised in May/June by an IDA mission comprising
Mr. M.J. Wilson (general educator), Ms. M. Grosse (specialist in primary
education/anthropologist), Messrs. R. Brigish (economist), J. Crosnier
(agricultural educator) and K. Vogel (architect). Mr. S. Denning (Loan
Officer) participated in the mission's work and discussions with the
government.
1.02      The first education project (Credit 253-SE, for US$2.0 million)
seeks to improve technical and agricultural education from a qualitative
standpoint and expand the supply of technicians for industry and commerce.
It comprises:
(a)  construction and equipping of a post-secondary level
technician training institute;
(b)  equipment and rehabilitation for two existing technical
lycees and for the National Marine Training School; and
(c)  construction and equipping of extensions to an existing
agricultural school.
Delays in project implementation have been experienced in (i) appointment
of architects; (ii) agreement on educational specifications and thus on
preparation of architectural designs; and (iii) appointment of acceptable
consultants for the reorganization of the National Marine Training School.
These problems have now been resolved.
1.03      To avoid similar delays in implementation of the second project,
in October 1973 IDA approved the reallocation of US$210,000 from Credit
253-SE, originally earmarked for equipping of the National Marine Training
School, to pre-finance architectural and consultant services so that detailed
agreement could be reached between the government and IDA on specifications before



presentationi of the second credït to the Executive Directors. Architects
have now been se.i ected for ai! projectt i tems and contracts signed, thus ad-
vancing physical implementation, whichi s expected to get under way in
February 1975. The ILO has completed the financial and organizational stud-
ies required for the hotel/'tourism industry training center.
Physical and Economic Envïronmen-z
1.04      Senegal is a country o' some four million people (growing at about
2.2 percent p.a.) located -n the westerrnmost part of the Sahelian zone, which
extends across Africa between the Sahara Desert in the north and the tropical
forest regions in the southi In 1970 the incomres of the almost three million
farmers and traditional f£shermen averaged only US$80, while the average for
indigenous urban inhabitan4s wvas US$580.
1.05      As i  al! the Saheilan countries, agricultural potential is severely
limited by sparse rainfall, concentrated in a short season, and by relatively
poor soils. Senegal suffered from substantial droughts in the last decade,
especially 1972/73, which decimnated lîvestock and turned areas into dustbowls,
causing grave human suffering. These climatic conditions which hamper steady
agricultural development, the poor quality of rural life and the tensions
between young people (particularly the educated) and their parents, are factors
encouraging migration to the urban centers, especially to Dakar (600-700
thousand inhabitants), an old, established administrative center and the focus
of salaried employment. This continuing migration has created squatter
communities and related severe social, economic and educational problems,
which are in part addressed by the site and services project (Credit 336-SEN).
1.06      With regard to the development of industry, the governnent has
hitherto focused on stimulating import substitution industries. This policy
has met with considerable success, resulting in a nearly 6 percent annual
growth of output. But salaried employment has grown only slowly and there
is serious urban unemployment. For the future, tourism, ship repair, fishing
and the government's incentives to industrial investors should generate in-
creased employment. Improved export prospects for both groundnuts and phos-
phates in the course of 1974 have led to an amelioration in Senegal's balance
of payments.
Employment Requirements and Output from the Education System
1.07      Available information suggests that, in 1970, the labor force was
roughly distributed as follows:
Sector                              Employment       % Labor Force
Modern                                  135,000             8.4
Rural, traditional                   1,120,000             70.0
Urban traditional                      215,000             13.5
Domestic servants                       20,000              1.3
Unemployed                             110,000              6.8
Total                         1,600,000           100.0



- 3 -
With annual growth of employment in the modern sector projected to be approxi-
mately 3 percent during the 1970s, only about 55,000 new jobs will be created
over the decade in that sector. Another 25,000 jobs will become available
through labor force attrition, the rate of which is about 1.5 percent p.a.
Hence job openings in the modern sector will total 80,000 during the decade
or roughly 8,000 per year. The following table compares estimated average
annual wage employment openings by skill level, 1970-1980, with the estimated
annual output resulting from the flows of present enrollments in secondary
and higher education, adjusted for probable participation rates (proportion
of output likely to enter the labor force):
Modern Sector Entrants to Modern
Skill level                    Job Openings   Sector Labor Market
Professionals/Higher-level managerial                850              800
Technicians/Middle-level managerial                2,150            2,000
Other                                              5,000            8,400
Total                                8,000           11,200
1.08      At the upper professional/managerial level, output from the Univer-
sity, the new Ecole Polytechnique (which trains in the area of business ad-
ministration) and the IDA-financed IUT (Institut Universitaire de Technologie)
should be sufficient to meet requirements, particularly since a proportion of
high-level manpower requirements must be filled by upgrading of existing
experienced staff. Given the parallel need at the middle technical/managerial
level to fill some positions with experienced personnel upgraded from the
skilled labor level, there may be a slight surplus from the education system.
However, these figures are mere aggregates which disguise qualitative imbal-
ances, often linked with the development of new economic activities or the
lack of trained nationals within existing ones. These needs justify creation
of new training facilities (e.g. for the tourism industry, Annex 2B) and
expansion or reorientation of existing ones (e.g. for the upgrading of indus-
trial and commercial workers to facilitate their promotion or to initiate
Senegalization of the marine/ commercial fishing sector). These needs also
justify improvement in the quality -- including their ability to cope effec-
tively with a technological society -- of all the outputs from lower second-
ary education, who constitute the reservoir of human potential from which
the required specialists can be trained.
1.09      At the lower skill levels, output clearly exceeds requirements,
quantitatively, although there are qualitative imbalances. The surplus at
this level will be even greater since most of the 16,000 completing primary
school each year who will not find places in secondary school are likely to
seek employment in the modern sector. At present, about 70 percent or approx-
imately 11,000 do not continue their education. Of these, almost 60 percent
or 7,000 leavers are in urban areas where their lack of maturity and specific
skills makes it difficult for them to find employment in the modern sector.



- 4 -
1.10      In rural areas, primary leavers may stand a better chance of
employment on family farms, if they are still accepted by their community
and able or willing to be trained. This still leaves untouched the need for
a general educational upgrading of the total work force -- illiterate adults
and youths - without which most rural and urban development schemes will be
difficult to implement.
1.11      Thus, one of the most crucial policy issues confronting Senegal is
how to provide its unemployed primary school leavers and its even larger
number of young illiterates with a useful economic and social role, whether
in the modern or the traditional sector. The solutions have ilmplications
which bear not only on the nature and emphasis of economic development
programs, but also on the types of education/training provided after today's
primary schooling and even on the very substance of primary education.
II.  ASSESSMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT'"S EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPI4ENT STRATEGY
2.01      In general, the government's educational development strategy is
coherent from an economic, social and pedagogical viewpoint (Appendix I).
Specifically, the government seeks (a) the qualitative improvement of the
lower-secondary program by the introduction of practical scientific and
technical courses which prepare for further education, formal and on-the-job
training, or family care; (b) the development of those specific vocational
training/upgrading programs which are presently lacking (c) the development
of education/training programs for rural and urban primary school leavers to
make them more employable or to prepare them for self-employment; and (d)
the exploration of low-cost alternatives to the ill-adapted, long and
expensive primary program in order to provide the majority with the minimum
skills and knowledge needed for participation in Senegal's development.
The government also seeks to improve the effectiveness of education, in
particular: establishment of closer links between technical/vocational
education and employment; progressive adaptation of the University of Dakar
to the country's needs and resources; and improvement in the management of
individual schools.
2.02      To achieve these objectives, for several years the government has
been carrying out research, design and planning work under the responsibility
of the former Ministries of Education and of Technical Education (now merged)
and the Agency for Human Resource Development. Foreign private institutes
and bilateral and international agencies (including Unesco, ILO and IDA)
have collaborated with the national authorities at various tiîr.es. These
efforts resulted in the adoption in 1972 of an important reform law which
(a) changed the length of the primary education and its articulation with
further formal studies or non-formal education (Chart I); (b) modified the
nature of lower secondary education, through rationalization (two streams,
general and technical, replacing the multiplicity of previous offerings) and
broadening of curricula; and (c) introduced the concept of village education



-5-
centers (EMP - Enseignement Moyen Pratique) which would off er primary school
leavers and youths who have never attended primary school with a blend, as
appropriate in each case, of practical training in agricultural and related
occupations and in literacy and numeracy.
2.03      The primary constraints to implementing the strategy are:
(a) limited financial resources (about 25 percent of the national
recurrent budget is already allocated to education);
(b) the weakness of planning and management capabilities which are
indispensable for improving the content and efficiency of the
existing system;
(c)  the lack of teachers and managers to implement the practical
scientific and technical programs in lower secondary education;
and
(d) the diversity of the activities which must be coordinated
to make the EMP concept operational.
2.04      With regard to financial constraints, the annual rate of growth of
the government's current education budget will have to be reduced from its
present 6.5 percent to 3.5 percent for the rest of the decade if education
expenditure is not to exceed its already high share of total government
recurrent expenditure. However, the primary school-age population alone
is expected to grow at almost 3 percent p.a. during this period. Thus,
with practically no margin for increasing enrollments at the present level
of unit costs, the government must examine fundamental changes in the
structure, content and financing of primary education if it is to do more than
hold its present position. The 1972 reform of education seeks, beginning in
1974, to alleviate financial pressures by reducing the length of the primary
program by one year. The education authorities also recognize the need to
maximize the use of existing facilities and teachers and to tap new sources
of finance wherever possible. In this regard, it has been proposed to
explore the feasibility of developing alternatives for fînancing primary
education (about 50% of annual recurrent expenses on education) at the
level of the newly created local administrative units.
2.05      With regard to planning and management, the government has become
increasingly conscious of the need for better control of the education/
training system. In 1972, by merging the two former Ministries of Education
and Technical Education and placing planning, curriculum development and
teacher training activities under a single directorate in the new Ministry
of Education, it laid the foundation for upgrading this service. With
regard to enrollments, the reform of 1972 states a clear intention to control
enrollment flows at the end of primary education: only 20 percent of grade 5
(instead of grade 6 as at present) are to continue the formal education
system. This percentage would, of course, vary with projected modern sector



- 6 -
manpower requirements. The government is also attempting to meet the pre-
requisites for linking the numbers and profile of the education system's
output with employment needs: (a) the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation,
with UNDP assistance, has been requested to improve labor statistics and
projections of manpower requirements; and (b) the Ministry of Education is
strengthening its planning and organizational capabilities (para. 3.18).
2.06      In the area of practical lower secondary programs and associated
teacher training, the government had already launched several innovations
aimed at making the lower-secondary school more relevant, notably in the
areas of the teaching of French, English and modern mathematies. For the
much more complex-task, both pedagogically and logistically, of introducing
integrated science instruction, technology and domestic science, a detailed
training scheme for teachers and administrators was prepared with IDA
assistance during project appraisal (para. 3.06).
2.07      To launch EMP, the government has assigned this responsibility to
a single agency in charge of Human Resource Development, namely the Delegation
Generale à la Promotion Humaine (DGPH), staffed with Senegalese specialists
with wide African experience in the technique of community development
("animation"), rural education (see Upper Volta's CERs - Credit 430-UV) and
rural development. The Agency has proceeded with extreme caution. It is
now experimenting on one center with regard to (a) tentative solutions for
linking the administration of the centers with the field work of other govern-
ment departments, (b) program organization, (c) the cultural and linguistic
content of the programs, (d) staffing and day-to-day organization, (e) costs,
and (f) the motivation and interests of the various participating groups. The
experiment will be broadened to about 30 centers under the proposed project.
Only after the latter's evaluation will the government move into larger-
scale implementation.
2.08      The proposed project seeks to help the government implement some
of the essential elements of its educational development strategy in the
following ways:
(a)  implementing the reform of lower secondary education
through the development of practical curricula and
teacher training programs; constructing facilities
for science, technology and domestic science, either
within new schools or as central units servicing
existing schools;
(b) providing vocational training/upgrading opportunities
related to needs as yet unmet by the system in close
liaison with employers so as to maximize the return to
Senegal on its investments in such programs;
(c) developing the experimental first phase of the national
program to establish a network of low-cost rural educa-
tion centers (EMP);



- 7 -
(d) strengthening planning and management of education; and
(e) studying low-cost alternatives to primary education.
III. THE PROJECT
General
3.01      The project would comprise the following components;
(a) Lower-secondary education
(i) Construction and equipping of 11 lower-secondary
centers for the teaching of science, technology and
domestic science, together with technical assistance
for program development and upgrading of teachers
(US$5.0 million net of taxes);
(ii) Construction and equipping of four lower-secondary
schools in departmental capitals to replace existing
inadequate facilities (US$1.7 million net of taxes).
(b) Vocational training/upgrading
(i) A hotel/tourism training and upgrading center,
including a "hotel d'application," to be located in
Dakar (US$1.4 million net of taxes);
(ii) Conversion of facilities, minor construction and
equipment at an existing Dakar vocational training
school to house a new industrial upgrading program;
technical assistance for instructors and scholarships
for national trainees (US$1.2 million net of taxes);
(iii) Minor construction and equipment for the National
Marine Training School (US$0.2 million net of taxes).
(c) Nonformal rural education
Construction and equipping of 30 village-level centers;
equipment for supervision teams and technical assistance
to aid the directorate responsible for developing,
improving and evaluating the programs (US$2.2 million
net of taxes);



- 8-
(d) Planning and management
The financing of technical assistance to strengthen the
Directorate of Research and Planning in the Ministry of
Education and the Human Resources Division in the Ministry
of Planning and Cooperation (US$0.3 million net of taxes);
(e) Alternatives to Primary Education Study
Consultants to aid in studies of low-cost alternatives to
the present formal primary education programs (US$0.2
million net of taxes);
(f)  Technical assistance and equipment for project implementation
and for design work (US$1.4 million net of taxes).
The summary of project costs is given in para. 3.20.
Lower-Secondary Program
3.02      Lower-Secondary Centers for Practical Science, Technology and
Domestic Science: This project item would expand and strengthen the practical
teaching of science, technology and domestic science in the lower-secondary
schools of Senegal through the construction, furnishing and equipping of
H1 science/technology centers comprising multipurpose laboratories, technology
and domestic science workshops, together with an administrative area. They
would serve 31 existing schools located in the regional capitals and Dakar
where short distances between schools permit their sharing of such facilities.
This approach, where feasible, is more economical than the provision of
laboratories/workshops in individual schools in terms of: economies of scale;
efficiency of utilization of facilities, teachers and equipment; quality of
staff and the closeness of its supervision; and maintenance and control of
the premises. In particular, whereas teachers presently have little incentive
or training to design lessons involving experimentation and student partici-
pation, in the centers they would work in teams (which would encourage the
development and maintenance of their initiative and skills) and would be
administered by a specially trained director.
3.03      The proposed 11 centers would serve a reasonable sample, 25 percent,
of the lower-secondary school population. The student's background would be
typical of this level of education since the lower-secondary schools are
mainly located in urban areas. Wherever possible, the centers would be located
on existing school sites so as to permit sharing of security personnel and
other services and to accelerate construction by reducing the problems
implicit in the acquisition of independent sites. These centers would func-
tion as independent service facilities.



- 9 -
3.04      When the project centers become fully operational, approximately
3,000 young people per year will complete the programs. A tracer system to
be established by the government with the aid of a specialist in program
evaluation would monitor the numbers and progress of those students who
enter employment after completing lower-secondary education, as well as those
who enter upper-secondary school and vocational training programs. With an
estimated 14,000 students utilizing the science/technology centers by 1978,
recurrent expenditure per student served will be under US$30 per year which,
when added to the existing lower-secondary unit cost, will bring the unit
cost per participating student to a still reasonable US$190 per year (in
constant 1970 prices). Part of the cost increase will be compensated during
the upper-secondary level programs due to the better entry level of students
from the centers. Total recurrent expenditure on the centers will constitute
less than one percent of the education budget in 1978/79; hence expansion of
the science/technology program to a larger proportion of lower-secondary
students in subsequent years will not place a severe burden on the recurrent
education budget. To ensure satisfactory operation of the project centers,
the government has given assurances that it will make a specific annual
budgetary allocation for the centers and establish appropriate inventory
and budgetary procedures for their operation.
3.05      Staffing:  Teachers and administrators for the centers would be
trained in existing facilities such as the Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS).
However, one of the centers in Dakar would be designed as a demonstration/
practice facility for the training and upgrading of teachers. This center
would be linked to a group of schools in the lower-income area of Dakar
typical of the overall standards encountered in the country. The directors
of the centers would be trained as team leaders, capable of coordinating the
instruction given in science, technology and domestic science. They would
also receive training in the basic accounting, inventory and other managerial
skills required for the center's efficient operation. Both the team leaders
and the teachers would be trained under the careful guidance, control and
evaluation of subject specialists and Senegalese counterparts. Once a
center's staff is ready to take over its newly constructed regional center,
it would be supervised by the core staff of specialists and inspectors-in-
training during its first year of operation, through periodic visits. In
the second year of operation, "refresher" courses would be held at the ENS
and at the demonstration/practice center.
3.06      Technical assistance (ten man-years) would be required for this
project item in the fields of team teaching, integrated science, and domestic
science/family education, and in the design and repair of low-cost science/
technology teaching materials. It would be desirable for the specialist in
fam.ily education to be Senegalese, so as to have an intimate knowledge of
family conditions. The specialists would develop the curricula and teacher
training programs and perform initial teacher training prior to the completion
of the center's construction. For the training of the center directors, the
Institut Universitaire de Technologie (IUT) would operate ad hoc courses and
ensure follow-up as part of this project. The government will appoint two
counterparts to each specialist (to be trained as inspectors specialized in



- 10 -
science/technology/domestic science), whose appointment will be timed ta
meet with the arrival of the specialists concerned.  These counterparts will
be actively involved in the follow-up of teachers trained for 1:he centers.
3.07      Replacement of Four Lower-Secondary Schools - CEMGs - (Kaffrine,
Gossas, Fatick and Sedhiou).  These four lower-secondary schooLs (1,920
total enrollment in 1972/73), which are using makeshift classrooms and lack
sanitation, clean drinking water, specialized rooms and teacher facilities,
urgently require replacement. They have been included in this project to
(a) provide the demonstration of an alternative pattern for the introduction
of practical science/technology in lower-secondary education; and (b) help
redress the economic and social disadvantages of the populations which have
no other secondary schools in the region. None of the properties in
question belongs to the government and they are rented at sums ranging from
US$200 to 400 per month. This project component would therefore consist of
the construction, equippping and furnishing of three 16- and one 8-classroom
schools with facilities for science, technology and domestic science,
catering to the needs of approximately 2,560 students at this level. The
accommodation plans already prepared by the School Construction Unit of the
Ministry of Education are suitable.
Vocational Training and Upgrading Programs
3.08      Hotel/Tourism Training and Upgrading Center:  This project component
would aid the newly reorganized Tourism Agency (Delegation Gererale au Tour-
isme -DGT) in improving the quality and conditions of training for the hotel/
tourism industry by the construction and equipping of a training center with
a capacity of 380 trainees and a three-star practice hotel of 50 rooms. The
areas to be covered include management/accounting, reception/front office,
room services, restaurant/bars and tourism-related courses. lesides training
for new employees the center would provide upgrading and ad hoc seminars/
courses for the hotel industry's personnel since new legislation is likely to
require that some 4 percent of the industry's work force attend upgrading
courses each year (Annex 2B). It would accept under appropriate arrangements
limited numbers of applicants from neighboring Mauritania and Mali, and even-
tually from the Gambia, whose industries are too small to operate their own
training programs. The proposed center and hotel, to be located on the
western corniche at a suitable tourist site, would be operated in close
coordination with the tourism industry, which would select the trainees,
supervise training and participate financially in the center's recurrent
costs. They are estimated at US$240,000, of which approximately 20 percent
would be met by the anticipated profits of the "hotel d'application,`' to be
managed by the industry on a sound commercial basis. The government's proposed
share of recurrent expenditures would be US$90,000 per year or approximately
35 percent; the balance of 45 percent or more would be met by the industry.
Separate accounts would be kept for the commercial hotel and for the school
operations. At government request, a senior ILO consultant (financed under
the first education project) has examined the terms and conditions of DGT/
industry cooperation and proposed recommendations to the governnent which



- il -
are acceptable to IDA. The signing of an agreement on industry participation
in the operation of the center and the "hotel d'application" will be a con-
dition of the disbursement of the funds related to this component. The gov-
ernment has given further assurances that it will sign an agreement for the
provision of technical assistance, acceptable to IDA, to design, develop and
implement training programs, also to be acceptable to IDA.
3.09      Center for Vocational Upgrading (Centre de Formation et de
Perfectionnement - CFPP): In agreement with the various sectors of industry
and the Directorate of the Ministry of Education concerned with vocational
training, this project component consists of the construction and equipping
of additional facilities for a center for the upgrading of industrial employees
and apprentices (CFPP) on the site of the existing center for pre-employment
industrial and vocational training at Dakar (Centre de Qualification Indus-
trielle de Dakar - CQID), originally established with UNDP/ILO assistance.
3.10      CQID's present and likely enrollments do not fully utilize its.
physical facilities and equipment and those not utilized would be used by
the new sections for the upgrading of industrial personnel. The project
would finance the conversion of ten workshops to house the new upgrading
courses, the construction of an administrative block, new equipment, the
services of specialist instructors (10.5 man-years), including an adviser to
the center's director, and a director of practical work, all to be acceptable
to IDA, and two man-years of scholarships for the upgrading of local counter-
part staff. The total number of employees passing through the center for
upgrading (6-8 week courses) would be approximately 400, for a total of
11,000 hours per year. In addition, ad hoc courses and joint use by the
CQID trainees would involve a further 400 persons, for a utilization of
4,000 hours per year. Details of this utilization pattern are given in
Annex 2. To ensure constant adaptation of the center's programs,to employer
needs and facilitate placement of graduates, an advisory board, with compo-
sition, powers and duties to be agreed upon by IDA and the government, will
be established within one year of credit signing.
3.11      National Marine Training School:  The proposed credit would provide
US$239,000 for building rehabilitation and equipment at this institution,
included originally under the first education project. In light of delays
in the selection of consultants to perform the study of curricula, equipment
and selection procedures, the government requested and the Executive Directors
approved (Memorandum IDA/R73-108 of October 17, 1973) that the proceeds
(US$210,000) be reallocated for the financing of architectural designs, prepara-
tion of equipment lists, financial and organization studies and the design of
initial training programs for teachers in relation to the proposed second
education project. The consultant has completed his study of the organization
and programs of the school and establishes a case for training an additional
490 seamen officers and crew plus an additional 430 engineering officers and
crew by 1985. The main cause of the school's ineffectiveness has been its
recruitment policy based on academic criteria instead of motivation toward
sea-going life -- a policy which has worked against the recruitment of young
men already engaged in fishing activities from small boats along the coast



because they often have low educational standards.  To remedy this, the gov-
ernment has agreed to recruit promising candidates (even if the!y lack formal
education) and to provide them with the coraplementary basic education re-
quired for them to follow the School' s courses0
Nonformal Education
3.12      Village Education Centers (Enseignement Moyen Pratique - DM):
This project ite,m would support implementation of the experimental program
(EMP) for rural primary school leavers and illiterates in the same age-group
already under development bv the Agency for Human Resource Development (DGPH)
(paras. 2.02, 2.07 and Appendix II). Specifically, the projeci- would finance
the construction and equipping of 30 village-level centers; equipment for an
instructor training center and for the pedagogical teams responsible for
supervising the program; and technical assistance, consultants and fellow-
ships to (i) strengthen the management and evaluation units
of the EMP directorate, (ii) train local personnel for the program's imple-
mentation, (iii) carry out an evaluation of the program, and (iv) aid in pre-
liminary research relative to the feasibility of a similar program for urban
primary leavers. In full operation, these centers would serve some 300 youths
in each of the communities served by the scheme, or a total of about 9,000 in
the 12-16 age-group. Enrollments in the first year of the program (approx-
imately 3,000) would be equivalent to approximately three percent of all
12-year-olds in 1980.
3.13      The concept of the village education center which serves (at dif-
ferent times and through different programs) the village primary school
leavers, illiterate adolescents in the same age-group and adults is not new
in either the European or Western African context. France has its successful
"Maisons Rurales Familiales" which have been replicated in Togo, for example.
Cyprus has used the concept at a critical stage of its economic development,
particularly between 1930 and 1950. And in Western Africa, education has
traditionally been a community responsibility directed to all youths in the
same age-group and consisting of a blend of theory (initiatior. to the commun-
ity's cultural values) and of practical training in agriculture and crafts.
The originality of EMP is that it tends to bridge the gap between Senegal's
cultural traditions and the requirements for participating in the transforma-
tion of rural life: the learning of literacy and numeracy in the national lan-
guages for those who did not go to primary school; the acquisition of improved
agricultural, construction or health practices from the variotLs extension
services; and the development of a greater capacity for managing their affairs.
Furthermore, as suggested in para. 2.07, EMP benefits from the experience
gained from past initiatives which often failed in Senegal and elsewhere be-
cause of: exclusive concentration on changing attitudes and expectations
("animation") with regard to rural development without follow--up through
production related schemes to provide material opportunities; lack of support
and acceptance by the local community; insufficiently practical programs or
programs unrelated to local conditions of production; inadequate staffing;
high costs; few opportunities for leavers, etc. The EMP program of fers par-
ticular promise for the following reasons:



- 13 -
(i) the centers will be created in areas where there already are
existing or planned development schemes, thus maximizing
employment/self-employment opportunities for those who have
been trained;
(ii)  community support (in the form of land, man-hours or financing
for construction, and participation in the management and
operation of the centers) will be a pre-condition for the
creation of a center in a given community;
(iiî)  the participants will be selected by the communities (from 5 to
12 villages will share a center, depending on distance) and will
maintain their link with their families, alternating between
the center and family activities;
(iv)  the programs will be largely practical and instruction will be
in local languages (although with a continuing course in French
for primary graduates); relevance to local conditions and
production activities will be ensured by the participation of
local extension personnel, who will be responsible for the
technical aspects of the program and for practical work;
(v) the staff will be selected on the basis of their motivation
and ability to work at the village level and will be trained
systematically to work in the socio-cultural context of a
given area of the country; thus, they will begin their work
with the detailed knowledge of the background and attitudes
of the communities they are to serve;
(vi) the small scale of the scheme will permit careful evaluation
of instructional programs and monitoring of costs, with a view
to finding the most economic forms of equipment, organization
and staffing; at the same time, the regional character of the
experiment will maximize its replicability in other areas.
Another important factor for success in the Senegalese situation
is the administrative reform at the village level. Agricultural, educational
and rural development services are being progressively decentralized accord-
ing to a specific timetable and their future work context will be the newly
established rural community (communauté rurale - CR), groupings of approxi-
mately 5-12 villages which have an elected council and a small budget
derived from local tax sources. Wherever possible, the EMP centers would
serve these rural communities or similar groupings and be managed by them.
Operating costs would be at least half those of primary education per parti-
cipant/hour. The construction costs per place would be similarly about half.
3.14      Programs and Staffing:  Entrants to the EMP centers would be
between 12 and 15 years old, 12 being considered a minimum, and the duration
of the program would be approximately three years. However, older students
might stay a shorter period, leaving when their skills and employment per-
mitted. Theory (related to such specific themes, for example, as cultivation



- 14 -
of a given crop or principles of well construction and maintenance) would be
followed by immediate field application of skills and knowledge on the land
belonging to the center and followed up in the context of the village. Stu-
dents would alternate between the center and their homes so that links with
the village and its activities would be permanent. The centers would be
staffed by three instructors belonging to the DGPH: a specialist in basic
education and functional literacy, a specialist in rural crafts (including
construction and carpentry) and a specialist in family education (domestic
science, health and nutrition). In addition to this permanent staff, exten-
sion staff from community level services would provide technical instruction
and supervise and follow-up on practical work. Specialized in agriculture,
stock-raising, forestry and rural work, these agents would be responsible
for community projects (selected in consultation with the villagers) in which
the centers' participants would work, together with their parents. The
technical theory and training provided in a center would reflect these
community projects and both broaden and intensify the impact of these
extension agents.
3.15      Location:  The Planning Service of the Ministry of Planning and
Cooperation, in collaboration with the DGPH, will carry out a survey to
identify the areas and village groupings meeting the technical criteria for
establishing the centers. Key criteria will be the existence of development
projects at the level of the community, community willingness to participate,
a sufficient number of young people, and availability of suitable land.
Since the centers would be in part constructed by the communities concerned,
careful consultation with the villagers would precede the final decision to
locate a center. The number of centers would be limited to 30 to permit
careful monitoring of all aspects of their operation (pedagogical, community
participation and management, construction, maintenance and operating costs).
After an initial period of operation --approximately two years --the impact
of the centers wouid be the object of an evaluation, focusing primarily on
the youths who have attended the centers (their employment, their use of the
skills acquired, etc.) but also on the degree to which participating communi-
ties have benefited from the program.
3.16      During negotiations the government confirmed that:
(i)  it will set a minimum age for participation in the program,
to be acceptable to IDA;
(ii)  it will consult with IDA on the terms of reference cf
the survey required to identify the areas and village
groupings where centers would be established, and will
implement the survey and consult with IDA on its find-
ings;
(iii)  it will provide IDA with case studies on the establish-
ment of the centers; will perform evaluations of the
instructional and training programs; and will consult
with IDA on the findings;



- 15 -
(iv) it will develop a suitable form of community participation
in operation of the centers, in consultation with IDA.
A condition of disbursement of the funds related to EMP would be the provision
of all necessary technical staff from the competent services for implementa-
tion of the EMP program.
3.17      Urban EMP Program:  The government has recently begun the socio-
logical studies and community discussions (at the level of Dakar and its
surburbs) which are a prerequisite to the design of a practical, non-formal
and community-based urban program for the EMP age-group. Approximately 7,000
primary school leavers per year would eventually be served by such programs,
or the vast majority of urban primary school leavers. IRFED, the consultant
group responsible for the research and development of the rural EMP program,
is undertaking this work. A small provision has been made in the project
for the initiation of the design of a nonformal urban program which would be
a natural and necessary follow-up to the Dakar site and services project
under which primary schools were built in the new districts.
Educational Planning and Management
3.18      About six man-years of specialist services would be provided to
(a) reinforce and train local staff on the job for the newly organized
Directorate of Planning and Research of the Ministry of Education, and (b)
assist in coordination of plans with the human Resources Division of the
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, with the Ministry of Higher Education
and with the DGPH (para. 2.05). The specialists would focus on:
(i) organization and management of schools, with particular
reference to lower-secondary science/technology facilities
and the lycees;
(ii)  design of evaluation and monitoring procedures for EM4P and
the lower-secondary practical science/technology programs;
(iii) analysis of educational costs, especially those of the new
programs under this project;
(iv) development of better linkages between overall human re-
source development planning and the planning of the formal
education system (with emphasis on technical/vocational
training and the possible need for reorientation of higher
education).
The government confirmed during negotiations that qualified counterparts,
acceptable to IDA, will be selected on a timely basis and assigned to work
with the specialists, and it will consult with IDA on the planning of educa-
tion and training programs with a view to ensuring their maximum adaptation
to employment needs.



- 16 -
Pre-Investment Study of Alternatives to Primary Education
3.19      The project includes about five man-years of services for a pre-
investment study of low-cost, more relevant alternatives to formal primary
education, which is potentially the most important educational issue in
Senegal (para. 2.01). The study would draw heavily on the experience in
designing and implementing the EMP concept and would review the possible
advantages of a decentralization of primary education administration and
financing (para. 2.04). An inventory of resources (personnel, appropriate
research findings) is under-way. The Directorate of Planning and Research
in the Ministry of Education would be responsible for carrying out the
study. It would set up task forces of Senegalese specialists, reinforced
in case of need by short-term outside consultants, to be acceptable to IDA,
and preferably drawn from a single institution or firm. An interim report
would be prepared after the first year of work, providing specific costed
proposals for experiments to be undertaken vis-a-vis samples of the primary
school-age population and providing a calendar for the implementation and
evaluation of such experiments. During negotiations the government agreed
that the terms of reference of the study will be subject to IDA's approval
and that its interim and final findings will be reviewed, with IDA.
Cost of the Project
3.20      The total cost of the project (including taxes) is estimated at
CFAF 5.10 billion, or US$21.2 million equivalent. The detailed breakdown
of gross project costs, given in Annex 3, is summarized below (in US$
thousands).
Categories                           Borrower         IDA      Total
1.  Civil Works                           4,915          4,792      9,707
2.  Furniture                               179            713        892
3.  Equipment                                -           1,808      1,808
4.  Consultant services related              -           1,115      1,115
to civil works
5.  Services of specialists and              -           1,977      1,977
scholarships
6.  Project Administration                   -             312        312
7.  Unallocated                           1,139          4,283      5,422
Total                      6,233         15,000    21,233
of which are taxes        2,233
The project cost of US$19.0 million, net of taxes, includes US$8.1
million in foreign currency costs and US$10.9 million of local expenditures.
The proposed credit of US$15.0 million would finance 79 percent of the total
project cost net of taxes.



- 17 -
CFAF (millions) /L            Us$ (thousands)
% of
Project Item                   Local   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total       Total
Science, technology and
craft, centers (11 num-bers)  768.96   421.92  1,190.88   3,204    1,758    4,962           36.5
site development               60.96    27.60       ëd.56      254      115       369
buildings                     615.60   173.76    789.36   2,565          724    3,289
furniture                      44.88    42.72       87.60      187       178      365
equipment                      27.60    97.92    125.52        115       408      523
technical assistance           19.92    79.92       99.84       83       333      416
Lower secondary schools
(replacement of T4)            291.84   123.84    415.68   1,216         516    1,732       12.8
site development               24.4O    lU.bO       35.20      102        45      147
buildings                     246.72    69.60    316.32   1,028          290    1,318
furniture                      11.52    10.80       22.32       48        45        93
equipment                       9.12    32.64       41.76       38       136      174
technical assistance             -         -          -        -          -         -
30 Rural training centers
=EMP)                          304.80   219.36    524.16   1,270          9114    2,184     16.1
site development                 -         -          -        -          -         -
buildings                     261.36    73.92    335.28   1,089          308    1,397
furniture                       6.00      1.68       7.68       25         7        32
equippment                     19.20    70.80       90.00       80       295       375
technical assistance           18.24    72.96       91.20       76       304       380
Upgrading center for indus-
trial technicians and modern
artisans                        91.20   187.68    278.88        380       782    1,162       8.6
roads     )                    41.52    12.00       53.52      173        50       223
buildings )
furniture                       4.o8      3.84       7.92       17        16        33
equipment                      23.52    84.00    107.52         98       350       448
technical assistance           22.08    87.84    109.92         92       366       458
Hotel Training Center +
Hotel dtApplication            207.36   129.60    336.96        864       540    1,404       10.3
site development               14-.bM     6.96      21.b4       62        29        91,
buildings                     153.36    43.20    196.56        639 -    180        819
furniture                      24.04    22.56       45.60       96 -      94       190
equipment                      15.36    53.76       69.12       64       224       288
technical assistance            0.72      3.12       3.84        3        13        16
/ Rate of exchange: US$1 = GFAF 240



- 18 -
CFAF (Millions) -            US$ (thousands)
%o!
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total    Totol
Strengthening of educational
and human resource planning   12.48    49.92       62.4O     52       208      260      1.9
Preinvestment studies and
preparation of an eventual
third project                  10.08    39.84      49.92     42       166      208       1,5
Project Unit                   14.88    60.00      74.88     62       250      312       2.3
professional fees            10.32    41.52      5l.b4     43       173     T 21
furniture and equipment       0.48     1.92       2.40      2         8       10
operational cost              4.08    16.56      20.64     17        69       86
Refinancing of the Merchant
Marine School (lst Educ.
project)                       11.52    45.84      57.36     48       191      239       1.8
Professional fees (consultant
services) related to
construction                   53.52   214.08    267.60    223        892    1,115       8.2
Subtotal                  1,766.64 1,492.08  3,258.72  7,361    6,217   13.578    100.0
Physical contingencies        140.40    75.12    215.52    585        313      898
Price contingencies           698.16   387.60  1,085.76  2,909    1,615    4,524
Subtotal contingencies      838.56   462.72  1,301.28  3,494    1,928    5,422
Total (net of taxes)      2,605.20 1,954.80  4,560.oo 10,855    8,145   19,000
Total (incl. taxes)       3,141.12 1,954.80  5,095.92 13,088    8,145   21,233
Y Rate of exchange: US$1 = CFAF 240
December 12, 1974



- 19 -
3.21      Construction would amount to 56 percent of the costs net of con-
tingencies and net of taxes; furniture and equipment, 19 percent; specialist
services, 23 percent; and the project unit, 2 percent. Th2 average estimated
unit cost of new construction in Dakar is US$190-220 per m of gross area,
due largely to the need to import construction materials. Construction cost
estimates take into account the experience of the First Project, in which
medium-sized local firms won bids, and reflect the need to minimize both
initial construction costs and annual maintenance costs. Costs per place
for the lower secondary technology centers, the hotel/tourism training center
and other institutions are given in Annex 4, together with a comparison with
other IDA-financed projects. The base line costs in CFA francs as of November
1974 were derived by taking account of the actual increase in costs since the
time of appraisal (May 1973).
3.22      Contingencies:  Contingency allowances include (a) physical factors,
10 percent of estimated costs of civil works, professional services, furni-
ture and equipment; and (b) price escalation varying from 7 to 30 percent per
year for the different local and foreign cost categories (Annex 5). With
regard to price escalation, the development of tourism, inter alia, and the
consequently larger construction volume have led to accelerating price in-
creases (an overall 30.5 percent increase in the period May 1973 - November
1974). Again, the basic minimum wage increased by some 60 percent in November
1974, adding a further 14.4 percent to the project construction cost esti-
mates. This factor, together with the increase in the price of construction
materials due to the energy crisis (Senegal has to import 25-30 percent of
construction materials), may slow down construction growth and increase com-
petition between contractors, thus reducing the future rate of price escala-
tion of construction contracts. For the various categories, the annual rates
of price increase taken into account for the project cost estimates are as
follows:
2nd half
1974      1975    1976    1977    1978
Construction           15.5%       15%     12%      12%      -
Furniture              14.0%       13%      8%       8%      -
Equipment              15.0%       11%      8%       8%      -
Technical Assistance   4.0%         6%      6%       6%      6%
The contingencies amount to 29 percent of the total estimated project cost
(excluding taxes) or 40 percent of the total cost, net of taxes.
3.23      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
US$8.1 million equivalent represents 43 percent of the total project cost,
net of taxes. It is distributed as follows: (i) civil works, 22 percent;
(ii) furniture, 49 percent; (iii) equipment, 78 percent; (iv) technical
assistance, 80 percent; (v) fellowships, 100 percent; and (vi) the project
unit, 80 percent.



- 20 -
3.24      Project Recurrent Costs.  Incremental recurrent expenditures for
the operation of all project institutions, by 1978/79 when all would be in
operation, would amount to about 3.5 percent of the projected recurrent
expenditures for education, the level of which - assuming that the measures
under para. 2.04 are implemented -- would be consistent with projected
public revenues.
Technical Assistance
3.25      Technical assistance and specialist services for skills not
available in the country and crucial to the success of the project amount
to about 35 man-years and 9 percent of total project cost, net of taxes.
Both the government and IDA are keenly aware of the undesirability of increas-
ing Senegal's dependency on external human resources and emphasis has been
given to national responsibility and management of all tasks required, with
the foreign specialists foeusing on the training of local personnel on the
job, or the performance of short-term highly technical tasks.  Specialists
will be acceptable to IDA and, to maximize the impact of on-the-job training,
the counterparts would be selected by methods and on criteria acceptable to
IDA, in accordance with the implementation schedule for technical assistance
(para. 3.18 and Annex 6). Fellowships related to the training of national
staff will be awarded to candidates and for programs of study acceptable to
IDA.
Evaluation
3.26      In all project items, the terns of reference of specialists would
include the development and implementation of procedures (including tests,
where appropriate) for the collection of data required for evaluation, and
the submission of regular interim reports to both the governUent and IDA.
In the case of EMP, case studies will be submitted to the government and IDA
after construction of the first six centers, after construction of the other
24, and at the end of each year of operation under the project. An in-depth
evaluation would be prepared in the third year of operation cf the 24 centers
(fourth year for the first six centers), analyzing the experience gained and
formulating detailed, costed recommendations relative to an eventual extension
of the program. In the case of the proposed hotel/tourism training center,
further periodic missions (4 man-months) by the staff of ILO's tourism train-
ing division would be financed under the project to aid in the installation
of the technical assistance, to give guidance on the programs and to evaluate
progress. The government agreed during negotiations to establish a permanent
tracer system, acceptable to IDA, for the follow-up of graduates of the
lower-secondary science and technology centers and for the industrial upgrading
and hotel/tourism training centers, so as to permit evaluaticn of these pro-
grams. The specialist in evaluation, to be appointed to the Directorate of
Planning and Research, will assist and coordinate the work of the specialists
engaged in implementing individual project items with regard to methods and
procedures of evaluation and tracing of graduates. The governnent and IDA
will consult on the findings of evaluation studies.



- 21 -
IV. IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Administration:  The well-managed project unit established within
the Ministry of Public Works under the first IDA credit would be responsible
for the administration and supervision of the physical implementation of this
second project. The project unit consists of a part-time project director
(he is also Director of Public Works), a building engineer (who has been ap-
pointed full-time deputy director) and an accountant. It has been reinforced
by an additional building engineer, experienced in procurement and project
administration, and by a site supervisor. The Ministry of Education, the
Agency for Human Resource Development (DGPH) and the Tourism Agency (DGT) have
designated senior officials to serve as sub-project managers in conformity
with Senegalese administrative practices. Each, for his specific area of
competence in relation to the project, will be responsible for the decisions
relative to the design of educational programs, equipment specifications, de-
termination and selection of specialists, and planning of their work. They
will also furnish the project director with all other information required for
physical implementation of the project and for reports to IDA. A special fund
will be established to meet the expected expenditures of the Borrower, includ-
ing current expenditures of the project unit, for successive quarterly periods
of project implementation. The credit would finance (i) the salaries of the
building engineers, the site supervisor, and the accountant, (ii) complementary
equipment, and (iii) the operational expenditures of the unit. All other costs
will be borne by the Government.
4.02      Professional Services.  For the design, planning and supervision
of construction of project institutions, the services of both the project
unit and consulting firms would be required.  Consulting firms, acceptable
to IDA, have been appointed and their contracts approved by IDA.
4.03      Sites.  Although all sites except those of the 30 village centers,
(paras. 3.15, 3.17) were tentatively identified at the time of appraisal,
The government has confirmed the availability of the sites identified and will
complete all necessary legal measures for acquiring them before the start of
construction.
4.04      Procurement.  Orders for furniture, equipment and didactic materials,
estimated to cost about US$2.5 million, would be bulked where possible to be
at least US$100,000 and contracts would be placed following international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Small orders of less
than US$5,000, to an aggregate of US$150,000, would be placed following
quotations obtained from local suppliers. A preference of 15 percent or the
prevailing tariff, whichever is lower, would be given to local manufacturers
of equipment, furniture and didactic materials. Civil works contracts for
the construction of the 47 buildings required for schools, estimated to cost
about US$7.6 million, would be widely dispersed and too small to attract
the interest of overseas bidders. Such contracts would therefore be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
local procedures which are acceptable to IDA.



- 22 -
4.05      Disbursements.  The proposed credit of US$15.0 milliDn would fi-
nance 79 percent of the total project cost of US$19.0 million, net of taxes,
corresponding to the estimated foreign exchange component of US$8.l million
equivalent and US$ 6.9 million equivalent in local costs. The credit would
be disbursed (Annexes 6 and 7) on the basis of: 100 percent of the cost, in-
cluding delivery to the site, of imported or locally procured aquipment and
furniture; 100%percent of the cost of consultant architects, other specialist
services and fellowships, and project unit expenses; and 63 percent of civil
works expenditures, net of taxes. Construction is expected to be completed
within about three years after the signing of the Credit Agreemnent, but im-
plementation of the training components of the project to reach full operation
of the schools would take up to six years.
4.06      Any undisbursed balance of the credit at project closing date would
be allocated for goods and services related to the project and mutually ac-
ceptable to the government and IDA.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the government on
the following main issues:
(i)  Introduction of appropriate financial procedures for
the lower-secondary practical centers (para.3.04),
the hotel/tourism training center (para.3.08) and
meeting the local expenditures on the project (para.
4.01).
(ii) Establishment of appropriate arrangements for
-    the recruitment, terms of reference and pro-
gramming of technical assistance specialists
and their counterparts (paras.3.06, 3.08, 3.25);
and for the performance of program evaluation
(paras. 3.16, 3.26);
-    the participation of employers in workers' up-
grading programs for the hotel/tourism sector
(para. 3.08) and the industrial sector (para.
3.10);
-    the follow-up of graduates (para.3.26).
(iii)  Approaches to ensure successful implementation of EMP,
especially with regaud to the criteria for selecting
participant villages, minimum age of recruits, nature
of community involvement, and regularity of feedback
(para.3.16).



- 23 -
5.02      Conditions of disbursement are (a) for the hotel/tourism training
center, the signing of an agreement satisfactory to IDA, between the govern-
ment (DGT) and the tourism industry, on the latter's participation in the
operation of the center (para.3.08); and (b) for EMP, provision for the col-
laboration of technical staff from the relevant services required for the
implementation (para.3.16).
5.03      The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$15.0
million equivalent.






APPENDIX 1
Page 1 of 8 pages
SENEGAL II
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
1.        Senegal's formal education and training system resembles those of
other Francophone West African countries in both its structure and its prob-
lems. However, because Western education had an earlier start in Senegal
than in neighboring countries (to which Senegal has furnished many skilled
workers, technicians, teachers and administrators) and because close cul-
tural links still exist between France and Senegal's small educated popula-
tion, which is mainly urban in character, the introduction of measures
designed to adapt the system, originally French in character, to national
needs has been slow.
Primary Education
2.        Primary education is given in French and is oriented to the pre-
paration of the minority for lower-secondary school entry rather than to the
majority's need for a functional, basic education. Under the control of
primary inspectors at the regional level, primary education has a comparatively
narrow base (270,000 enrollments in 1971/72, or 38 percent of the 6-12 age
group in 1972) and even this low participation rate conceals significant
regional disparities. By 1981, the primary enrollment rate is expected to
reach 47 percent of the corresponding age group and only 50 percent by year
2000, thus clearly indicating the need to explore alternative low-cost pro-
grams for basic education. Unit costs are approximately US$66, or about a
third of GDP per capita (Mauritania, US$160; Mali, US$25; Upper Volta, US$50).
Overall, 19 percent of the enrollments were repeaters in 1971/72, with a
repetition rate in the sixth grade of 35 percent, due to renewed attempts at
the secondary entrance examination (the pass rate in 1971 was 32 percent of
grade 6). The program is urban-oriented and leads to an early disassocia-
tion of rural children from their home environment.  Almost all the teachers
are Senegalese. For all but a very small minority, the language of school--
French--is not the mother language: less than half of one percent of the
total population speak French in the home (CLAD, 1963) and an earlier survey
(Verrière, 1961) indicated that only 12 percent of the population claimed
to be able to read and write in French and only one percent of the women.
3.        Costs (60 percent of the total recurrent budget for education and
largely for personnel) are likely to limit its primary education extension
beyond the present proportion of the age group it reaches, unless changes in
structure, programs and financing are explored. The government has recently
begun to study the possibility of such changes, including the use of national
languages for the first years in which literacy is acquired. The structural
reform of 1972 prescribes the shortening of the course by one year, beginning
in 1975. The majority (80 percent) of the children will then leave school
at the end of grade 5.



A'PENDIX 1
Page 2 of 8 pages
Secondary Education
4.        Lower-Secondary School is the preparatory course for diversified
programs in upper-secondary, general, technical and vocational. education.
As such, it is intended to add to the basic literacy and numeracy achieved
in primary school new knowledge and skills in mathematics, larLguage, schience,
technology and social studies. Entry to lower-secondary education (and thus
to further study and training) has been regulated by the government in
several ways: through adjustment of the pass rate of the lower-secondary
examination to the number of places available, and through thE! channelling
of students, according to their age and grades, to differentiated types of
school (cours normaux, originally leading to teacher training; colleges
d'eseignement general, largely terminal in character; cours secondaires, a
curriculum and status similar to the lower cycle of the lycee; and the lycee
itself, receiving the youngest and in theory the most gifted.
5.        While the pass rate in the entrance examination is equivalent to
approximately 20 percent of the sixth grade (in theory, to be 20 percent of
grade 5 enrollments from 1975 onward), end-of-year exams in private schools
lead to transfers (on the basis of marks), which increases the: flow to about
30 percent.  In terms of content and methods, the programs in these schools
have been very much the same, due to a common examination--thE: Brevet
d'enseignement du premier cycle, which is both a school-leaving certificate
and an entry examination for upper seondaary. In terms of facilities and
teachers, however, the cours secondaires and the lycee have erjoyed more
advantages, as was evidenced by a survey of over fifty lower-secondary
schools in the different regions carried out during appraisal. The colleges
d'enseignement general have tended to bear the brunt of enrollment increases,
with an annual rate of increase of 13 percent from 1967 to 1971, compared
with 6 percent p.a. for the lower cycle of the lycees.  As a result, classes
often are large (50-60 students in some cases), although internal efficiency
remains fair (overall, about 10 percent of the 1971/72 enrollments were re-
peaters). The repitition rate was again higher in the examination class
(about 13 percent) because of the social value placed on the school-leaving
examination (it is rapidly losing any significance for employment).  In terms
of imparting new skills, the lower-secondary schools face considerable diffi-
culties with regard to science and practical subjects; facilities, materials
and adequately trained teachers are lacking, even in the lycees.
6.        Increased enrollments have led to an increase in personnel costs--
over 90 percent of recurrent costs at this level. Personnel costs have been
growing at more than 9 percent pa. system-wide, compared with total recurrent
costs (3.6 percent p.a.) and materials (1.7 percent p.a.). In subject areas
requiring less of an investment in facilities and materials (the teaching of
French, English and mathematics), definite improvements have occurred in
both the curricula and the training of teachers. However, since the curri-
culum development activities are dispersed among several agencies, there
may be diseconomies in the production of low-cost materials and teaching



APPENDIX 1
Page 3 of 8 pages
aids and in their distribution. Science is taught largely on the blackboard
by teachers who themselves have had little practical experience. Technology
is at the stage of experimentation and domestic science is taught perfunctor-
ily, with the result that the majority of girls (who leave the system at this
level) do not acquire skills and knowledge which would help them in the case
of their families. The administration and financing of lower-secondary
schools are also a handicap to their effective operation: schools have no
budgets at this level and requests for supplies, materials, repairs, etc.,
are handled by the primary inspector, who must exercise his best judgment in
assessing priorities. Neither headmasters nor inspectors have any training
in school administration, so procedures tend to be unsystematic. In a sense,
the colleges (CEGs) have not been given full recognition as secondary schools;
feeling the main impact of increased enrollments, they have been accommodated
in the better primary-school buildings (displacing primary classes, which
have been generally re-housed on the same site) or in totally makeshift fac-
ilities. In a sense, they operate as "continuation schools" extending the
duration of primary school and reinforcing its impact, but failing (with the
exceptions noted above) to teach new and practical content. This partial
fusion of the primary and lower-secondary levels is reflected by a common
budget (53 percent of total recurrent public expenditure on education in
1972/73--an additional 4 percent over 1969's budget). Unit costs at this
level are US$160 per student year (Cameroon, US$215; Ghana, US$190)--a sub-
stantial decrease over 1966 (US$390), due almost entirely to increased en-
rollments. In the colleges, 87 percent of the teachers are Senegalese, com-
pared with only 20 percent (both cycles) in the lycee; however, 50 percent
of them are unqualified by Senegalese criteria. In general, they hold the
baccalaureat (while qualified teachers have the Ecole normale superieure
diploma) and have little or no formal training as teachers. Almost all
students receive scholarships at this level, though their cost amounted to
only 1.4 percent of the total lower-secondary recurrent expenditure in
1969/70.
7.        The 1972 reform has abolished the artificial divisions between the
different types of lower-secondary schools and has prepared the way for the
equalization of learning opportunity. In addition to the steps already taken
to improve the quality and relevance of the teaching of French, English and
mathematics, the government now proposes to take the more difficult step of
introducing practical science, technology and domestic science courses.
Major tasks will be teacher upgrading and curriculum development, the instal-
lation of procedures for the control and maintenance of equipment and mate-
rials, and the rationalization of salary scales for technology and domestic
science teachers. The programs could be a significant factor in improving
the overall quality and flexibility of the work force and in increasing the
efficiency of upper-secondary education and training in scientific and tech-
nical areas.



APPENDIX 1
]'age 4 of 8 pages
8.        The upper-secondary level of the lycee is the goal of the majority
of lower-secondary students, as technical and vocational education enjoy less
consideration, for social and historical reasons. In 1971, approximately 45
percent of the 3eme (final year of lower secondary) acceded to the general
lycee and 3 percent entered technical lycees. The lycees (enirollments of
8,287 in 1971/72 in ten schools) accounted for almost 15 percent of the re-
current budget in 1972, of which 83 percent was for salaries. Here, too,
unit costs have decreased by about 6 percent p.a. over the last five years
and now stand at US$378 (compared with Mali, US$320 in 1972). However, ab-
solute outlays have remained at the same level. Again, the result has been
a paucity of books and materials (exaggerated apparently by frequent changes
in the prescribed texts), which has handicapped the use of science facili-
ties and led many teachers to produce their own mimeoed texts (an effect not
without certain pedagogical benefits). The lycees are large---2,000 or more
students (both cycles) are not uncommon--and they recruit from all regions
of the country as a result of assignments on the basis of the national
examination. This has serious social effects, favoring better-off students,
forcing the less well-off to live under difficult conditions, and increasing
the alienation of all students from their home environment. The pressure
of a complicated and heavy study program, the student having to live away
from home, the uncertainties of the future (increasingly, baccalaureate
holders fail to obtain jobs)--all these factors that have contributed to a
tense climate at the lycees. There is a distinct bias in these schools for
non-scientific studies (as the University enrollments in science clearly
indicate), due in large part to inadequate instruction at the lower-second-
ary level and an over-crowded curriculum which puts a premiwa on book-learn-
ing.
9.        Financial support by France plays an important role at this level--
unit costs would be over US$600 if French contributions were included. This
support is largely in the form of teacher salaries; approximately 80 percent
of the teachers are French at this level. It would appear that the
Senegalization of the teaching force at this level would be a high priority
economically as well as culturally; however, a French technical assistant
costs the governnent approximately US$300 p.a. for housing and other ex-
penses, whereas a Senegalese replacement would cost almost US$4,500 p.a.
Nevertheless, the present low cost of expatriate teachers may change as more
burden is placed on the government. Similarly, increased competition for
teaching jobs by university graduates may permit eventual stabilization of
salaries (para 10 below).
Higher Education
10.       Approximately 70-75 percent of the classe terminale (CT, grade 13)
proceed to the University, 1/ but this proportion is not likely to be main-
tained since the CT has been growing at approximately 25 percent p.a. An-
nual higher-level manpower requirements by 1980 are likely to be less than
1/   Of the final year of upper secondary in 1970, 1,200 (app?roximately 15
percent) repeated, 10 percent left school, and 75 percent (900) continued
their studies.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5 of 8 pages
the University's output, which already is about 800 per year, of whom 60
percent are Senegalese (their proportion is growing at 5 percent per year
but may increase dramatically as social pressures limit the present inter-
national character of the University). Over 60 percent of the University's
enrollments (5,376 in 1972/73) are in non-scientific and non-technical
fields (the faculty of science, with an enrollment of 600 in 1972/73, has
shown no growth since 1967/68). On the scientific and technical side, the
only expansion has been in medicine/pharmacy (1,173 enrollments in 1972/73
--a 16 percent annual growth since 1967/68) and in technology (243 enroll-
ments in 1972/73 at the University Institute, a two-year employer-linked
program financed under the first education project). Two-thirds of the
costs of the University are met by France (about 4 percent of the total
recurrent education costs budgeted for 1972/73). Student contributions
meet less than 3 percent of the costs, since scholarships amount to CFAF
312 million (1972/73 budget), or almost 4 percent of the total budgeted
amount for that year. Unit costs vary from faculty to faculty: US$1,130
in Letters and US$2,260 in Science, but between US$3,820 (university-level
entrance) and US$6,370 (baccalaureate entry) for the Ecole normale super-
ieure, which is operating well under its capacity of 290. The University
is international in character (38 percent are expatriate students, of whom
64 percent are expatriate Africans; 19 percent are French and 17 percent
other nationalities), which makes greater involvement in Senegal's develop-
ment problems difficult. As in the French model, faculties are largely
autonomous, applying their own selection procedures, standards, etc.
Teacher Training
11.       Teacher training (2.3 percent of budgeted recurrent expenditures
in 1972/73) is under reorganization. Regional training colleges for men
are being established in each region and a women's college already exists
ai: Thies, which will recruit nationally. Recruitment is at the level of
the 3eme (school-leaving examination) and the trainees receive three years
of essentially general education plus a fourth year of practical pedagogical
training. In 1972/73, 230 students were enrolled in the first year. Para-
lLel to this course, graduates of the lower-secondary school are given one
year of professional training, qualifying them as "instituteurs adjoints"
(output is 100 per year but this program will be abolished in 1976, when
all the regional training colleges become operational). In 1971/72, 21
percent of the teachers were qualified (instituteurs), 63 percent were
"instituteurs adjoints," and 15 percent were "moniteurs" (a type of train-
ing no longer given). The latter group is being gradually displaced by
better qualified candidates who generally have the baccalaureate.
12.       Teachers for the lower-secondary schools are trained in three
schools: the Ecole normale superieure (ENS), which is part of the Univer-
sity (recruiting at the level of the First Diploma in Science or Letters,
after two years of university education, and providing one year of peda-
gogical training); and the Ecoles normales d'enseignement technique masculin



AMPENDIX 1
Page 6 of 8 pages
et feminin (ENEnM and ENETF), where technical and domestic science teachers
are trained (recruiting at the level of the baccalaureate and providing
three years of general and technical education plus training). Under the
Civil Service regulations, ENS graduates presently receive higher salaries
than their colleagues at the ENETM and ENETF--a fact which could lead to the
lowering of the status of technology and domestic science, alxeady viewed
as low-priority subjects because they have counted little in the past in
the school-leaving examination. Separation of these types of training
makes difficult the integration of the curricula (e.g., between science and
technology; biology and health/nutrition/sexual education--part of the
domestic science program).  At the same time, the training at all three
schools remains insufficiently practical. The entire teacher-training pro-
gram at this level requires critical review, particularly since the program
is split administratively between two Ministries (Education--the ENETM and
ENETE, and Higher Education--the ENS). Upper-secondary schools recruit
their personnel directly from the University. Expected enrollments in
1973/74 in the one-year program at the ENS range from 52 to 72 (science
subjects, 13-26; literary, 39-46); at the ENETM, 6 in the final year in
1971/72; and at the ENETF, 18 in the final year 1971/72, where population
will fall due to the introduction (1972) of a new four-year program. About
50 percent of recurrent costs (largely for personnel) were financed by
external sources. Unit costs are US$2,384, of which the government pro-
vides approximately US$1,340.
Technical and Vocational Education
13.       Technical and vocational education, previously an independent
Ministry, was integrated with the Ministry of Education in 1973 and is in
the process of being reorganized. At present it is characterized by a
proliferation of small establishments, with frequent overlap of purpose.
This fragmentation (there are 26 different vocational schools) is largely
the result, as in many other West African countries, of unintegrated
actions by external aid agencies. Two broad levels can be identified:
(a) General technical education: at the university level, the
IUT, giving two-year diploma courses in a variety of tech-
nical areas (enrollments of 230 in 1972/73) based on an on-
going analysis of industry needs; at the secondary level,
the technical lycees at Dakar and St. Louis. With enroll-
ments of 308 in 1970/71 (little growth since 1966/67),
these latter schools had unit costs of US$1,513 for the
first cycle, and US$3,240 for the second cycle, of which
the government met approximately 76 and 58 percent, re-
spectively. They prepare for the technical and commercial
baccalaureates and the "brevet de technicien" (after one
year of upper-secondary level training);



APPENDIX 1
Page 7 of 8 pages
(b) Vocational training, which includes industrial, clerical/
secretarial (an ILO project), tourism/hotel, and construc-
tion training. Some of these training centers are attached
directly to industries (the railways, the phosphate indus-
try) or to Ministries (Public Works). There are also seven
private vocational schools (commercial, secretarial and
domestic science), five of which are operated by the
Catholic Church. The degree of efficiency varies consid-
erably and there is clearly a need for rationalization of
this sub-sector. Upgrading of employed workers has hitherto
been neglected by this sub-system despite its economic im-
portance. Total output of qualified graduates is given in
Annex 1 to this Appendix.
14.       Merger of the Ministries of Education and of Technical and Voca-
tional Education was a first step in the better utilization of resources,
but overall improvement of planning and management is needed to carry
through programs of rationalization, cost reduction, and better utiliza-
tion of staff and facilities (Chapter II of Report). In the Ministry of
Planning and Cooperation, a UNDP-financed staff is helping to improve
manpower planning through the better collection of labor statistics,
which should prepare the way for a better orientation of programs and
flows in the formal education and training system.
Agricultural and Nonformal Education
15.       Nonformal education has been limited thus far to a few dispersed,
often unevaluated actions to provide functional literacy to farmers and
industrial workers. National languages other than French have been used
but their development and application have been slow. Adult literacy
courses are being operated on an experimental basis within certain agri-
cultural development schemes--the Societe pour l'Amenagement du Delta,
and the SODEVA groundnut extension areas.  Formal agricultural training
enrolled 454 in 1972 (of which 196 were in agriculture, 77 in horticul-
ture, 37 in fishing; the remainder were in forestry, livestock, rural
artisan training, etc.).  Approximately 20 percent of the trainees were
at the supervisory technical level.
16.       In 1972, however, the government turned its attention to the
major problem of primary-school leavers, in particular the conservation
of the skills and knowledge already acquired and their further prepara-
tion for active life. In light of sociological research already under-
taken in rural areas, financed by the government, it was decided to develop
and experiment with flexible, nonformal programs of education and training
for both rural primary graduates and illiterates in the same group (en-
seignement moyen pratique--EMP). In theory, 80 percent of rural primary



APPENDIK 1
Page 8 of 8 pages
school leavers would enter this program. However, it is likely that event-
ual participation in an effective program will depend on certain factors,
such as: appropriate agricultural conditions (water, soil, etc.), a suf-
ficient concentration of young people, proximity of extension and other
rural fieldworkers (who would give instruction), and the interest and
motivation of the village populations. The government has reqluested IDA
financing for this experimental program.  Its future extension would be based
on and coordinated with the progressive reform of public administration,
leading to the decentralization of government services and a greater share
'in decision-making by local communities. Eventually, the commujnity-operated
centers of EMP could become a tool for extending basic education to youth and
adults in rural areas. Research is planned to determine the design of an
urban counterpart of rural EMP.
External Aid for Education
17.       France has been the major source of recurrent aid, principally in
the form of salaries of expatriate teachers, which in 1971 amolnted to CFAF
3.8 billion in recurrent expenditure, or 83 percent of all external subsidy.
Sixty percent of the recurrent costs of the University of Dakair is borne by
France (CFAF 2 billion, or 44 percent of total external subsid:Les in 1971).
French, Canadian and FED aid for education and training over recent years is
indicated in Annex 2 to this Appendix: France, CFAF 330 billion; Canada,
CFAF 2.1 billion; and FED, CFAF 56 billion. The most important: recent pro-
ject has been the construction by Canada of the Prytanée de Th:Lès, a 350-place
higher polytechnical school (construction costs, Can$6.4 million; technical
assistance, Can$1.0 million). This school will graduate some 50 business
administration/management graduates in 1978. Output will event:ually reach
70 graduates per year.



Annex 1 to
APPENDIX I
OUTPUT OF QUALIFIED INDUSTRIfL,
TECHNICAL AND COMMERCIAL GRADUATES-1972
Présentés     Admis     Pourcentage |
de réussite
1. Semi-skilled worker level
CAP Commercial
Sténodactylographie                  250          86          34.4
Dactylographie                       322         187          58.1
Aide-comptable                       439         104          24.o
Banque                                93          30          32.25
Bureau                                35           5           14.3
CAP Industriel                         345          173          50.1
Total                                            585
Total Industriel                                 173
Total Commercial                                 412
2. Skilled/Supervisory
BE? Commercial                       194          95          49.0
Brevet supp. d'enseignement
commercial                        205         1141         69.0
Brevet de technicien
industriel                        158          48
Total                                            284
Total Industriel                                  48
Total Commercial                                 236
3. Higher Level
Bac B                               (n.a.)        35)          65.4
Bac E                               (n.a.)        35)
IUT                                   _
Total                                            116
Total Industriel                                  14
Total Commercial                                  32
CAP = Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle
BEP = Brevet d'Enseignement Professionnel



Annex 2 to
APP3NDIX I
Page 1
PRINCIPAL ITEMS OF FOREIGN AID FOR EDUCATION
AND TRAINING FROM 1969 TO 1973:  THIRD PLAMI
I.  FAC (Fonds d'aide et de coopération-- Erench Assistance %ad)
- Aid to educational establishments and education-related
agencies (academie vear 1968/69)                 EF550,000 grant-in-aid
1969
-  Fitting out and equipping of buildings for the
military hygiene school of IDakar                FF700,001' grant-in-aid
- Aid to educational establishments for the
academic year 1969/70                            FF6oo,oo00
-  Aid to educational establishinents for the
1970     academic year 1970/'71                           FF660,000
-  Construction of two regionlal teacher-training
schools at Saint Lou-is and Banbéry              FF7i,700,000 grant-in-aid
-  Aid to educational establishiaents for the
academic year 1971/72                            F750,001) grant-in-aid
1971
-  Provision of buildings and facilities for
IJUT (Institut Universitaire de Technologie)    FF2,040,000 grant-in-aid
-  Construction and fitting ouG of 15 Franco-
Senegalese primary school classrooms             FF720,00) grant-în-aid
-  Aid to educational establishments for the
academic year 1972/73                            FF220,000
1972
- Construction of boarding facilities for
IUT, Phase I                                    FF2,500,(000 grant-in-aid
- Aid to Applied Lin.guistieîcs Center, Iakar
(teaching materiais and equipmentLU)            FF50,000,,000 grant in-aid
II. Canada
-  Construction ot four ge eral-curriculum secondary
schools (Pikine, Tivaouane, Louga and Bignona) can$520,000 or
1970                                                :CFAiF140, 4oo, 000
-  Constructiron of boarding facilities for
Blaise Diagne Lycée                              CFAF-408,000,000



Annex 2 to
APPENDIX I
Page 2 
1972/74 - Construction of the National Polytechnical    Can$6,400,000 or
School at Thiès                                 CFAFl,728,OOO,0O
1973/75 - Technical Assistance Polytechnical School        Can$1,000,000 or
CFAF270,000,000
The amounts are in French francs for FAC aid and in Canadian dollars
for Canadian aid.






APPENDIX II
Page l
SENEGAL II
RURAL NONFORMAL PRACTICAL TRAINING
(ENSEIGNEMENT MOYEN PRATIQUE RURAL)
A.       Objectives
(i)  To improve the return on the education acquired by rural primary
graduates and drop-outs through: (a) training designed to faci-
litate their integration into the rural economy (in agriculture,
related fields and community development); (b) consolidating
and reinforcing the knowledge and skills acquired in the primary
schools, while adapting them to the functional requirements of
rural life.
(ii)  To provide functional literacy and training in agriculture and
other rurally oriented fields to illiterate youth.
B.       Background and Justification
Under the 1972 reform of lower secondary education, primary education
is to terminate at grade 5, beginning fall 1974. Some 80 percent of grade 5
students per year by 1980 will leave school at this level. An urgent problem
is to help integrate these youths, aged between 12 and 14 (who lack the
physical maturity for work and possess only basic skills and knowledge) into
the socio-economic environment by extending their education and providing them
with the training required for them to play an active role in economic develop-
ment. 'he government decided as early as 1969 to develop nonformal, community
supported programs which would draw on existing resources in both the community
and in agencies inthe community (education, health, the extension services), to
implement the programs. The government1s wish is that the programs be
adapted to the economic needs of the different regions and that they impose mi-
nimal operating costs on the budget. Another concern was that the programs be
based on basic research into the community's own perception of education/training
needs. To this end, it has financed for several years a field research project
conducted by the Institut de Recherche en Matière de Formation et d'Education
pour le Développement (IRFED). Because of the governnent's desire to stem the
flow of young people from rural areas and so ensure adequate human resources
for high priority schemes of agricultural development, the first phase of this
research has been directed to rural Senegal, with the objective of counteracting
the impact of the formal primary school which has operated as an instrument of
socïo-economic selection, orienting rural students to the modern, urban sector
and breaking their ties with their families and the land. A cautious and well-
planned program of research has consequently focussed on the problems, both
social and economic, of "re-integrating" students into rural life, as perceived
by the parents (mainly farm families) and the children themselves.  This research
has been facilitated by the implementation of the administrative reform which
has led to the creation of "communautés rurales" (OR): groups of villages with



APPENDIX II
Page 2
elected councils and modest budgets which for the first time give the rural
inhabitants a voice in their own affairs.  The CR is also to be the point of
intervention of the various governmental agencies (agriculture, cooperatives,
health, education) which have been decentralized on a regiona:L basis and
placed under the authority of the sub-prefects (sous-préfets), who will
thenselves be trained in rural development at the Ecole Nationale d'Economie
Appliquée (ENEA) de Dakar.
C.        The Langomack Center
At the timne of writing, one nonformal community education center
has been established at Langonack, serving villages in the CR of Fissel,
Region of M'Bour, and is operating with an initial enrollment of 100 (of whom
70 percent are illiterate and 30 percent girls).  The center' s relationship
with the administrative structure is given in Figure 1. The principal agency
of technical collaboration in this instance is the centre d'exEpansion rurale
(CER), a tean of specialists (agriculture, forestry, livestock, public works
and education) at the level of the arrondissement where they c an respond to
local needs as an integrated team. Under the technical supervrision of their
respective agencies, the CER tearns are under the administrative control of the
Prime Minister's Office. The organization of future centers and the course oa
technical human resources for training are a matter for experL'mentation, and
other development agencies such as the SODEVA (Sociéte pour le Développement
de l'Arachide) may eventually participate. The initial progroens of the Lango-
mack center are based on the villages' own priorities in agriculture (in this
case market gardening is the local project being implemented by the CER).
On this theme, a sequence of related lessons has been designed covering such
topics as the nutritive value of garden vegetables, the relative importance
of water and woils for their growth, seed germination and plant growth, etc.
These lessons, given in the local language (Serer) and in French, are backed
up by practical work and field observation: students participate in their
village market gardening project and report on its progress, as well as work
on their own plots.  Thus, as future farners and farnners' wives, the students
receive detailed information and background on the projects being spread
by the extension service, which passes the sarne messages, though at a different
level of complexity,  to their parents.  The villagers themselves participate
in the instructional program in various ways: village "specialists" (e.g.
the farmer designated as responsible for the village 's hortict.ltural project
or for the introduction of a new technique, or perhaps the village blacksmith)
accompany the extension worker or other technician to the center to participate
in the prograin. Frequently, the village specialist gives an eaccount of the
"traditional" knowledge available to the village which is then compared with
the extension technician's "modern" information and critically discussed by
the class. The villages have also appointed young adults (17-20 age group)
who are given the responsibility of acting as monitors. They accompany a
village's children to and from the center, supervise their work in. the village
while learning on the job fron the center's staff. These monitors provide an
important source of feedback on the villages' reactions to the experimental
program.  The program is given in three-day blocks, followed by three days
of "release time" in the village in which the children aid in family tasks
and pursue group activities under the supervision of the extension staff



APPEiNDIX II
Page 3
and the center instructors. Since two groups use the center, each group
spends three days per fortnight in the center, which allows family/community
links (and in particular their participation in family activities) to remain
unchanged. The timetable at present for the two first-year groups is as
follows:
Work Day
1   2   3   4   5  67        8   9   10   il   12
Group A    Center        Field
Group B                              Center         Field
Once the progran becomes more standardized, overlap will become possible:
Group B attending the center on days 4, 5 and 6, for example. Of the time
spent at the center, the greatest part (60-70 percent, varying with the
character of the group -- whether more or less illiterate) is spent on tech-
nical content and related practical training, and the balance on functional
literacy or general education. The Langomack center has the following permanent
staff:
1 primary teacher
1 instructor in rural crafts
1 basic literacy instructor
1 family/domestic science instructress
They are aided by the local CER team (agriculturalist, forestry and livestock
specialists, etc.). It is planned that the centers have typically three
permanent instructors (literacy/general education, crafts, family/domestic
science).
D.        Center Construction
Village participation has also extended to the construction of the
Langoxmack center. Materials and the services of a mason and his skilled
laborer have been provided by EMP, but the villages are constributing the labor
for the principal construction work and for digging the well. They have also
set aside 5 hectares of arable land for the center's use. The village repre-
sentatives (délégués) have also agreed to hire the mnason and to contribute
their labor for five of the workshops still to be constructed. One evident
"payoff" to the villagers, by their own account, is that they are learning new
techniques that will help them to improve home construction. It is anticipated
that a minimum of 15 percent of construction and furniture costs will be con-
tributed by participating villages. A larger share is likely since centers
will only be constructed where a CR's villages, or other village groupings,
are in agreement to create one. The value of the experiment from an architec-
tural viewpoint has been recognized by Unesco: its Regional Office in Dakar
is willing to provide services to aid in the identification of self-help
construction and to design suitable methods and materials. The buildings
at Langomack are of the simplest design, incorporating local materials, and are
well adapted to local conditions. Above all, they are easily built and repaired.



APPENDIX II
Page 4T
Each center would have its own well (whenever possible, to be dug by the
villagers under the guidance of the local well digger) so as riot to draw
upon the scarce water resources of the host village.
E.        Location of Centers to Be Built under the Project
The location of the centers at which this instruction and training
would be given would be determined on the basis of such criteria as:
-  the existence of a sufficiently large group of young people
(including illiterates) within a radius of 5 - 7 lan of the
proposed site;
- the availability of land and water for practical training
purposes, and the existence of rural development activities
in the area offering employment opportunities (either paid
jobs or family/self-employment);
-  the close proximity of technical personnel (from Rural
Development, Health, Public Works and other departments)
able to provide on a part-time basis the various types of
training (agricultural, health, community development related)
appropriate for the region in question, and to supervise
field training;
- acceptance by the participating villages of objectives of
the program and their willingness to contribute their labor
to construction of the centers.
The planning unit of the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation will, together
with the DGPH, conduct a survey (for which the terms of reference will be
acceptable to IDA) to identify the CRs and other village groupings in which
the proposed 30 centers will be constructed. IDA will be consulted on the
results of the survey and on the selection of the zones concerned.
F.        The Program Development Team
The organizational chart and proposed staffing of the directorate
of EP for 1974/75 are given in Figure 2. Since the appraisal in 1973, the
directorate has been considerably strengthened, notably by the appointment of
a director trained by IRFED. To implement the proposed project, however,
additional technical assistance will be required as indicated in Annex 1 to
this Appendix. The strengthening of the national center at M'Bour is particu-
larly important since here the instructors who will staff the centers on a
permanent basis would receive the theoretical instruction and their practice
work within existing operational centers.  The center at Langcnack presently
has two staff nembers who are pursuing on-the-job training prior to establishing
a new center at Tatenguine. Also, the technical field personnel (agricultural-
ists, etc.) to be assigned part-time to EMP centers would receive their orient-
ation at M'Bour. With regard to curriculum development (for the programs to
be developed for different regions and for the associated instructor training



APPENDIX II
Page 5
programs), consultants will be required at the national and regional levels
to aid in the definition of the content of the programs and to advise on
their sequence and their field application. Certain consultants will be
involved at the national level in the design and development of "core
programs" which will be used at all centers (e.g. well construction and
maintenance, safeguards against parasitic infection, growing of garden
vegetables, etc.); others will aid the regional teams in the task of
designing those elements of the overall program which are specific to the
region's needs.
Essential Tasks in Curriculum Development, Training and Evaluation
The tasks of the national team in collaboration with the regional
team will be to:
(i) define the instructional goals of the education component
of the program;
(ii) develop or adapt the necessary instructional materials and
methods, both written and audio-visual, for attaining these
goals;
(iii) draw up detailed job profiles for the instructors who will
staff the EMP centers;
(iv) on the basis of these profiles, establish criteria and pro-
cedures for selecting instructors;
(v) select and train instructors for the pilot centers and
provide supplementary training to the field technicians
who will be responsible for the technical training com-
ponent of the program;
(vi)  analyze the instructional requirements of the technical
training programs in order to determine the pedagogical
training required by the technicians responsible for that
part of the program;
(vii) ensure close cooperation with the services and agencies
providing part-time technical personnel, and ensure co-
ordination between the center activities and village rural
developnent activities of the technical personnel;
(viii) study the arrangements for financial participation and
management, both by the villages and by the State;
(ix)  supervise the centers and follow up the students after they
leave; for this purpose, the team would develop procedures
for evaluating the "external" effectiveness of the EMP
program (evaluation of the integration of the trainees into
rural society, success in obtaining employnent, improvement
of innovative agricultural techniques and of yields, raising
of nutrition and health standards in the villages, etc.);



APPINDIX II
(x)  distribute teacher guidance sheets and educational
materials to the EMP centers;
(xi)  develop criteria for short, medium and long-term evaluation
of the programs, from the viewpoints of both costs and
effectiveness.  (It should be emphasized that two different
types of evaluation would be involved; the purpose of the
first would be to improve instructional and training methods
and materials, whereas the second would be concerned with
the feasibility of increasing the number of ceriters.)
Of these responsibilities, those related to instructor selection and training
and coordination with the field technical services are perhaps the most crucial
to the success of the project. In selecting the instructors, their motiva-
tion and familiarity with the rural society should be given the same weight
as their professional qualifications. It is equally important to avoid
creating a "cadre" of EMP instructors (which would lead to the introduction
of civil service pay scales and purely formal qualifications). Different
teaching systems should be tried, with the aim of reducing operating costs.
If primary school teachers are used as instructors, they should be given a
retraining course. The aim is that instructors be accepted arLd trusted by
the villages they serve. Without the support of the technica] services and
coordination of their programs, the centers cannot hope to train their students
nor to find them jobs or relevant self-employment in the zone concerned.



APPENDIX II
Page 7
FIGURE 1                          March 1974
ILLUSTRATIVE ORGiNIZATION OF EMP IN ZOiSES POSSESSING CRs
| DIR. NAT. de ltEMPj
-1_SOUS-PREF_  _                 EÛIPE RB3IONALE
3/
|C. E.R. |                                 | SOC. DE DEV.
\~~~~~O4N I COMITI  
COEUNAUTE RURE- -  -EQUIPE DE DARTEMENTALE
DELEGUES DE VILLAGE
N.
FOYER EMP
- Administrative responsibility
----     )  Direct participation
1/ The sous-préfet is an agronomist. Under the administrative reform, five
sous-préfets will be trained at ENEA (Dakar).
2/   Centre d'expansion rurale (CER):  Newly reorganized and obtaining support
from FED and USAID, the CERs provide technical instruction.  They are
usually staffed by an agriculturalist and forestry and livestock specialists.
3/   Sociétés de développement:  Quasi-autonomous agricultural production
services. In certain areas their extension workers would participate.
4/   Communauté rurale:  An administrative grouping of villages with its own
elected council and a modest budget. Where the administrative reform has
not yet been implemented, there are similar groupings of villages, organ-
ized by the extension services, with regard to participation in development
schemes.
5/   DélLegues:  Some are members of the CR's council.
- they make decisions on enrollments;
- keep their individual villages informed on the center's work;
- ensure collaboration between villages in terms of labor
and other inputs to the construction of centers.
Villages:  - provide labor and mnaterials;
- appoint delegates;
- appoint tutors (Sélibés), young adults who accompany
children from each village and remain with then for the
period of instruction, later supervising practical work
in the village. The Sélibes are not paid.
- provide land (5 ha at Langomack);
- provide village specialists (paysan pilote, bIacksmith, etc.)
to aid in instruction and practical work.



APPENDIX II
Page 8
FIGURE 2
March :L974
DIRECTION NATIONALE
* Agronome (A)
Psychopédagogue (A)
Inspecteur Adjoint du primaire (B)
Ingénieur Génie Rural (B)
CENTRE DE FORMATEON (MUBOUR)                          UNITE EXPERfMENTALE URBAINE
Sociologue  (A)*                                    Psychopédagoque
Economiste  (A)                                     *  Sociologue
Psychopédagogue (A)*                                    *  Economiste
Inspecteur Génie Rural (B)
Documentaliste (B)
Inspecteur Adjoint du primaire (B)
Inspecteur de l'animation       (B)
UNITE EXPERDMENTALE RURALE
14 Inspecteurs de ltanimation (B)                    9 Inspecteurs de l'animation
12 Instituteurs  (c)                                  30 Instituteurs
6 Maîtresses d'économie familiale (B)
6 Monitrices d'économie familiale (C)
4 Regional Teams
( ) indicates civil service grade.  A is the highest grade wh.iere
technical assistance will be most likely required. B and C
level personnel are to be assigned from other services.
* indicates higher-level post already filled in 1974.



APPENDIX II
Page 9
G.        The Regional and Departmental Teans
Given the differences in culture and economic activities between
the regions and the need to ensure that programs reflect as much as possible
the training needs at the local level, a certain decentralization of the
program development/supervisory staff is required. For exaxmple, in both
Casamance and the Fleuve regions, rice growing undoubtedly will provide
themes for instructional programs which would best be prepared and experimented
in these zones. Similarly, tropical fruit production would be a theme explor-
able only in the Cas amance are a. Language differences also argue for the
differentiation of progran development activities.  Thus, the regional tean
would have as its principal task the development of curriculum specific to
a region and the adaptation of "core" curricula (programs of country-wide
significance, treating such fields as functional arithmetic and literacy in
French, key economic themes, development problems, etc.) to local use. They
would also ensure administrative and pedagogical supervision of the centers
in their region and coordinate the location and operation of the centers with
implementation of the administrative reform and the development programs which
are also under implementation by the regional government. An additional task
would be to develop, together with the regional planning authorities and the
regional government, plans for the extension of the program, indicating the
CRs to be served. The departmental team would be the field arm of the regional
team, responsible for:
(i)  village-level discussions prior to their decision to open
a center;
(ii)  aiding in the organization of self-help activities for
construction;
(iii) installing the staff and equipment of new centers;
(iv)  ensuring that viable procedures for community participation
in the management of the center are implemented;
(v)  following-up on village offers of participation;
(vi)  ensuring timely delivery of counterpart materials;
(vii) supervising on-the-job training of instructors for other
centers;
(viii)  ensuring collaboration with the technical field services by
providing detailed programs and schedules and generally
briefing technical personnel;
(ix)  closely monitoring center activities during their first years
of operation with regard to motivation, achievement, attend-
ance of students; motivation and effectiveness of center staff;
village motivation and support; cooperation with other services;
and operational difficulties encountered. In short, they would
be responsible for the communication link between the experimental
centers and the regional team.



APPENDIX II
Page 10
H.       Responsibilities of the EMP center Staff
Consisting of a general educator/functional literacy specialist,
an arts/crafts instructor and a family/domestic science instructor, the team
would be responsible for:
(i) providing general education, for the purpose of (a) consoli-
dating and widening the knowledge acquired in tlie primary
schools; (b) common themes in such areas as farnily budgeting,
rural development, social studies, health, nutrition, hygiene,
etc; (c) improving the students' comprehension of the train-
ing component of the program. To this end, theyr would work
closely with the agents of the participating technical de-
partments;
(ii)  providing illiterates with a basic education suited to living
and working conditions in rural society;
(iii) maintaining permanent relations with the village councils in
order to ensure the maximum participation of the villagers
in the operation of the centers;
(iv)  in conjunction with the technical experts, ensuring proper
follow-up and instructional control of the training program
during the alternating field work periods;
(v) maintaining contact, for as long as possible, with the stu-
dents trained in the EMP centers, with a view tc a continuing
evaluation of the program.
The chief instructor at the center would be specifically responsible for:
(i)  day-to-day management of the center, in his capacity of
representative of the villages and for maintaining the
center's equipment in good working order;
(ii)  for organizing the curriculum and schedules;
(iii) for coordinating the activities of the full-time instruc-
tors and part-time technical experts;
(iv)  for everyday relations with the villages served by the
center;
(v) maintaining records on student enrollments, attendance
and achievement and collecting other information. as re-
quired for formative evaluation.



APPENDIX II
Page 11
I.       Field Technicians of the CER and other Services assigned to work with
the EM? Centers
(a)  Numbers and qualifications:
It will be possible to expand the EMP program only if the resulting
cost remains relatively low. With this aim, the government seeks
to use personnel of other government departments who are already
on the spot and are capable of assuming responsibility for the
training and follow-up of the young people to implement the pro-
grams of the centers. Initially, technicians could be seconded
to the EMP centers on the following basis:
Number of technicians required per EMP center
First    Second    Third
Year      Year      Year
Center enrollments                    About 100  about 200  about 300
Technicians                                  5         5         5
Total number of technician-days
per month                                    5        10        20
Number of days per month per
individual technician (agriculture,
livestock, etc.> devoted to the
EMP center                                   1         2         4
However, the requirements with regard to the qualifications of the
technicians will vary from one region to another, according to the
type of productive activities;  for example, along the Petite C8te,
fishery technicians will be in greater demand, whereas in Casamance
the greatest need will be for  agricultural technicians.
(b)  The technicians would have the following responsibilities:
(i)  furnishing the theory and practical training related to
the programs designed by the regional teams in conjunction
with the national team;
(ii) directing practical training in the field, both on the
centerts land and in the villages;
(iii)  following up on graduates who find employment in the various
development activities in their areas of responsibility;
(iv) assisting in setting up cooperatives or other associations
of young people which would facilitate their integration
into production;



APPENDIX II
Page 12
(v)  assessing the feasibility of suggestions for training
from villagers, with a view to making use of them at
a later stage of the center's programs and activities;
(vi)  providing the departmental team with feedback on the
effectiveness of the training withi respect to village
participation in projects sponsored by the technical
services.
%c)  Participation of the villagers in the training program:
To facilitate closer integration of the EMP center with the
villages and ensure that the prograns are suitad to local needs,
use would be made of the available human resources in the
villages themselves. A case in point would be that of local
farmers known for their special skills, and also "pilot farmers"
("paysans pilotes") and rural artisans trained in the rural
vocational training programs, aided by ILO, which are under
the DGPH.  To facilitate possible expansion of' the EMP, the
rural vocational training centers night in future give priority
to peasant farmers chosen by their village or by their comunity
tO take part in the EMP programt.  However, the possibility of
remunerating the participating peasant farmers should be con-
sidered, or of providing non-monetary benefits, since it would
be unrealistic to expect them to give their services free
on a permanent basis. As indicated in C above, the Langomack
center already uses the services of village specialists and
monitors, at present on a volunteer basis.
J.        Operation
The basic principle of operation is that of alternai.ion:  that is,
-alternation between theoretical courses and practical work, and alternation
between the center and the village. All theoretical courses would be followed
by practical training sessions, either on the center's land or in the villages
served by it.  The advantages of this approach are:
(i)  immediate reinforcement of learning through application
at the center and then within the village;
(ii)  strengthening of ties between the student and his family
because the training he receives is employed on behalf
of the family when he is not attending the center.
Both of these advantages have been the aim of other successful
programs such as the "maisons familiales" scheme in rural France.
Supervision of the practical sessions would be the joint respon-
sibility of one of the instructors and the technician concerned.  The advan-
tage of involving the instructor would be that he would later be able to make



APPENDIX II
Page 13
use of his experience during this supervision in his general education courses,
so as to ensure consistency between the two sides--education and training--of
the program.
The practical training would usually be organized around activities
that would directly benefit the villagers, such as (i) making a model garden
in the village (the cultivation of market garden crops might be taught in order
to spread the knowledge of new techniques and at the same time persuade the
villagers to adopt new food habits); (ii) maintenance work on wells (which
would have a more general impact on both health and production). A certain
flexibility in drawing up the programs would encourage suggestions from the
villages taking part; they might, for example, propose including poultry-
farming in the program if this particular line of production were to be sub-
sequently developed in the villages. The program of an EMP center might
follow the general lines suggested in Annex 2; thus approximately 50 percent
of the time would be spent on training, including 25 percent on supervised
practical work sessions.
Regarding the basic education (literacy, numeracy) the written ma-
terials and teaching methods to be used would be the same for a broad area
(the region, for example), the minimum adaptation necessary being left to
the initiative of the instructors at the centers. It would not be realistic
or, in fact, possible to work out "completely individualized" programs for
each center, since this would call for exceptional teaching ability on the
part of the instructors and would greatly increase the operating costs of
the EMP program.
K.       Construction and Equipment for the EMP Centers
Construction costs of EMP centers are given in Annex 3; equipment
costs in Annex 4.  Equipment costs for the national training center (M'Bour)
are given in Annex 5 and for the regional and departmental teams in Annexes
6 and 7. The capital expenditure required to equip the centers may appear
rather high, since it could act as a limiting factor on large-scale expansion
of the EMP. However, one aim of the experiment would be to discover the most
economical and most effective combination of equipment and personnel in the
initial phase. Another aim would be to explore a much broader range of train-
ing courses,than would be provided in the "expansion" phase; the experience
gained would assist in defining the types of training most suited to the dif-
ferent regions. In other words, if the equipment of the centers were initially
restricted to that required for only limited objectives, the experimental
value of the EMP program would be greatly reduced.  Moreover, the EMP center
cannot rely on the simple equipment possessed by the villagers (there is too
little of it and it is in constant demand for the vill%ers' own needs). How-
ever, the EMP center could, on the other hand, aid in the demonstration and
introduction of more effective simple technologies.
L.       Experimental Aspects
The novelty of this approach,the demands it makes on cooperation by
a number of different technical services, and the fact that the training programns



APPENTDIX iI
Page 14
and the profiles of the instructor leaders would be developed under the
project, underline the experimental nature of the project.  It would, for
instance, be necessary to examine in detail the problem of logistical suppor-b
of the centers (supply of equipment and teaching materials, teaching super
vision, etc.), and the relations between the centers and the rLew regions&
administrative organization, which is itself in the process of being set up
and is therefore equally at a more or less experimental or "rurning-in1' stage.
It thus appears that a reasonable rate of progress in the practical
execution of these projects, which would constitute the first phase of the
EMP program, might be as follows:
First Year             Second Year             Third Year
6                      24                     30 (total)
In this way, it would be possible to identify during the first year, and to
develop in more detail later, certain themes common to all the centers, sUCch
as training for certain widespread agricultural activities (subsistence fanz-
ing, stockraising, nutrition and health, and the consideration of basic know
ledge). Starting in the second year, experiments might be made with training
courses suited to activities peculiar to certain areas, such as rice-growing,
market gardening or sugar cane cultivation.  The future expansion of the pro-
gram could then be based on these original centers, which woulcL thus become
the nuclei for the development of other EMP centers. Moreover, the projectsd
expansion would take account of the operational experience gairLed in education
and training components of common interest to all regions.
The regional distribution of the centers might be as follows.
Rural Area                                 lst year    2nd yrea?
Thiiès                                            1            6
Siné-Saloum                                       1            4
Casamance                                         1            4
Diourbel                                          -            2
Sénégal Oriental                                  1            2
Fleuve                                            1            4
Cap Vert (area bordering on
the Thiès region)                       1           2
Total           6           24
This role of development will be limited in practice to the nunber of 5lkae
the departmental level teams will be able to work with during the initial
planning/discussion phase prior to the village decision to establish a cater?
In view of the experimental nature of this phase, ancL of the projected
expansion of the program, evaluation is essential.  This evaluation should con-
cern itself particularly with the costs and effectiveness of the project, tlhe
lessons of experience (e.g., in the setting up of centers and in instructo-r



APPENDIX II
Page 15
selection and training), methods of cooperation with other government depart-
ments, and the possibilities of setting up young peoples' cooperatives and
integrating them into the rural communities.
The timetable and flow chart for the necessary steps for establishing
the EMP centers and bringing them-into operation are given in Annex 8.
M.       Assistance to Research of Urban EMP
The majority of primary school leavers are to be found in the towns
and their number includes many young people of rural origin.  The government is
conscious of increasing urbanization and, at the same time, increasing unem-
ployment amongst the educated. Ihus, it has already initiated research into
urban dwellers perception of their childrents needs for education and training.
A team comprising an economist and a sociologist (IRFED) has already held nu-
merous meetings with precinct political leaders, religious authorities, parents
of primary school students, and with parents whose children do not attend school,
in order to gather the background information on attitudes and aspirations re-
lative to education. A second phase of this research would focus on the nature
and structure of urban employment both modern and traditional, formal and in-
formai; on the relationships between educational qualifications and employient
(career patterns); on new possibilities of employment and self-employment, in
particular those related to community development; and on the basic elements
of a general education program which would seek to prepare urban-dwellers for
urban life. Ihis last field has rarely received adequate attention: few city
dwellers know how to use available resources and facilities while, at the same
time, many of them from traditional backgrounds do not comprehend the new eco-
nomic and social problems they face. Since EMP is intended to prepare for par-
ticipation in the economy, the major goal of this second phase will be to,iden-
tify programs they imply. To pursue these related areas of basic research, the
services of consultants would be financed under the proposed project, with a
view to preparing the design of an experimental nonformal urban education/train-
ing program which might eventually be included in a follow-up project.






Annex 1 to
APPENDIX II
ILLUSTRATIVE ALLOCATION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR EMP
US$
1.   Total cost of technical assistance component
net of taxes would be                                            380,000
2.   Technical assistance posts at national level
1 specialist in management/logistics
2 man/years at US$55,000                                ll0,000
1 specialist in evaluation
2 man/years at uS$55,000                                 110,000
Subtotal                220,000
3.   Consultant missions (rural and urban EMP programs)
Agronomist specialized in training               )
Specialist in programming techniques             )
Hydraulic engineer specialized in well           )
drilling/small-scale development projects        (  approximately 14
) man/months or
Psychosociologist                                (
)        US$ 70,000
Socioeconomist                                   (
Planning specialist in the field of nonformal  (
education                                        )
Specialist in urban community planning           )
4.   Scholarships
Training of senior and middle level staff           (
for EMP                                             )      170 man/months
Lower level staff training courses within Senegal )  or US$ 90,000 (approx.)
Total of US$ 380,000



Annex 2 to
APPENDIX II
ILIUSTRATIVE SYLLABUS OF THE CENTERS
% of time devoted
to instiauction 
Agricultural Training
Cash-crop production                                  30-:35
Food/subsistence production
Stockraising
Cooperatives and other farming groups
Non-agricultural or para-agricultural Training
Processing of agricultural produce                    15-20
Rural handicrafts
Trade and transportation
Other possible activities
Study of Ehvironment
Ecology (physical environment), water, soil         about 25
Population and social structures
Envirormental health (health, bygiene, nutrition)
Village organization - community development
leadership (animation) - cooperation
General Basic Training                                about 25
Mathematics and their use in the cooperatives,
trade, crop yields, profits, the family;
reading and writing in French and the local
languages; and preventive health care.
Total                100î:



Annex 3 to
APPENDIX II
CONSTRUCTION OF AN EMP CENTER
(with thatched roofs, wooden posts and cement floors)
Total CFAF
3 huts for instructors:  210m2 x 20,750 CFAF                   4,358,000
1 hut for meetings:  lOOm2                                     1,636,000
1 audio-visual equipment storage building:
30m2 x 26,770 + teaching materials                  803,000
1 shed with space for 2 workshops
40m2 x 13,375 CFAF                                  535,000
1 food store + kitchen:  33m2 x 30,000                           991,000
1 sanitary unit + garden tools store:
22m2 x 22,500                                       495,000
1 open shed for horse and cart:  55m2 x 13,380                   736,000
1 poultry shed:  40m2 x 10,700 CFAF                              428,000
9,982,000
Local adjustment 8%                         768,000
10,750,000
Furniture
For one center                                               256,000
Construction of well
Average depth 30.Om at CFAF 23,800/m                         714,000
Total for one center                      11,720,000
US$  49,000 (rounded)



Lnnex 4 to
1LPPENDIX II
EQUIPMENT OF AN EMP CENTER            April 1974
Quantity     Unit    Total
Price   CFAF
1.  Equipment
Parpen moulds                                         2         13,500   27,000
Wheelbarrows, trowels, buckets, shovels                         40,000   40,000
Woocdworking tools                                     2        25,000   25,000
Hearthworking tools                                   2         25,000   25,000
2.  Teaching Materials
Reading/instructional materials                       1        160,000  160,000
Blackboards                    )
Flannelboards and accessories )                       4         20,000   80,000
Typewriter                                            1         50,000   50,000
Duplicator and attachments                            1        150,000  150,000
Cassette tape records                                 4         20,000   80,000
Cassettes                                           4h             750   30,000
Cameras                                               4         20,000   80,000
Slide projectors (battery)                            4         25,000  100,000
12v battery                                           6         12,000   72,000
Daylight screens                                      2         30,000   60,000
Radio                                                 4         12,000   48,ooO
Scale and measure                                      1        15,000   15,000
microscope                                             1        30,000   30,000
Pharmacy                                              1         15,000   15,000
Office supplies:  black and color pencils,
rulers, erasers, compass,
ballpoint pens, desk pads,
paint (lot)                                  60,000   60,000
Kitchen equipment                                               40,000   40,000
Sewing equipment: sewing machines + accessories        2        30,000   60,000
irons, scissors, etc.                        20,000   20,000
Poultry raising equipment                                       30,000   30,000
Gardening equipment: (sprinkler, shovels, hoes,
rakes, wheelbarrows)                     30,000   30,000
Agricultural equipment (plow, sower, team of
oxen, cart)                              70,000   70,000
Recreational equipment                                          50,000   50,000
Plastic sheets (lOOm roll) for water
collecting basins                        15,000   15,000
'"obylettes"                                           2        50,000  100,000



Annex 4 to
APPENDIX II
Page 2
Quantity    Unit      Total
Price    CFAF
3. Ibeumentation
Docunentation                                           1       80,000    80,000
Slides                                                200           100    20,000
Total  1,704,000
US$         7,100






Annex 5 to
APPaIDIX II
M'BOUR NATIONAL CENTER EQUIPMENT         April 1974
Quantity    Unit      Total
Price    CFAF
1.  Teaching materials
Tape recorder                                           1      100,000    100,000
16mm projector                                          1      300,000    300,000
l6mm camera with sound                                  1      350,000    350,000
2.  Training equipment
Beds                                                   50         6,ooo    300,000
Klitchen equipment for 50 trainees                                         125,000
3.  Office equipment
Chairs                                                  50       1,500      75,000
Conference tables                                        6      28,000    168,000
Desks                                                    6      30,000    180,000
Iron lockers                                             4      40,000    160,000
File cabinets                                            4       20,000     80,000
Typewriters                                              2     100,000    200,000
Electric duplicator                                      1     200,000    200,000
Photocopying machine                                     1     400,000    400,000
4.  Teaching documentation                                                     800,000
5.  Vehic_es
404 pick-up                                              1     600,000    600,000
404 station wagon                                        1     900,000    900,000
Total    4,938,000
US$        20,575



Annex 6 to
APPENDIX II
TYPICAL EQUIPMENT OF A REGIONAL CENTER      April 1974
Quantity    Unit      Total
Price    CFAF
1. Teaching materials
Tape recorder and tapes                               1      100,000   100,000
16mm projector                                        1      300,000   300,000
Photo enlarger and tanks                              1       80,000    80,000
2. Training equipment
Beds                                                  40         6,000   240,000
Kitchen equipment for 40 trainees                                        100,000
3.  Office equipment
Chairs                                                h0        1,500    60,000
Conference tables                                      5       20,000   100,000
Desks                                                  7       30,000   210,000
Iron lockers                                           3       40,000   120,000
File cabinets                                          2       20,000    40,000
Typewriters                                            2      100,000   100,000
Manual duplicator                                      1      150,000   150,000
h.  Teaching documentation                                                   200,000
5. Vehicle
404 saloon                                             1      900,000   900,000
Total   2,700,000
US$        11,250



Annex 7 to
APPENDIX II
TYPICAL EQUIPMENT OF A DEPARTMENTAL TEAM      April 1974
Quantity    Unit     Total
Price    CFAF
1.  Audiovisual equipment
Camera                                               5        30,000   150,o000
Cassette tape recorder                               5        20,000   l00,000
Cassette                                           20            750    15,000
2.  Photo laboratory
Enlarger + tanks and vats                            1        80,000    80,000
3. Reproduction materials
Film, paper, etc.                                            150,000   150,000
4.  Tour equipment
Beds, sleeping bags, first-aid kit,
gas lanterns, camp stoves, etc.                   5        30,000   150,000
5. Vehicle
2 CV + equipment (pumps, tool kits, etc.)            2        350,000  700,000
Total  1,345,000
US$        5,600






Annex 8 tO
APRP;DIX II
PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR EMP
P.Y.                                          2                     3                                                               6
4           1        1          1  1   1   
1.  IDENTIFICATION OF FARTICIPATING VlLLAGES
2. PR PARING COLLABORATION OF
PARTICIPATING TECHNICAL SERVICES
3.  PREPARATION OF DRAFT PLANS (AVANT.PROJETS)
4,  IDENTIFICATION OF POSSIBLE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
R EGU IRE MENTS
5.  RECRUITMENTOFTHETECHNICALASSISTANCE  TA.
R. PREPARATION OF INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS'
7.  PREPARATION OF INSTRUCTOR TRAINING PROGRAM AND
ORIENTATION PROGRAM FOR PARTICIPATING TECHNICIANS
B.  TRAINING AND RETRAINING OF PERSONNEL FOR THE
FIRST SIX CENTERS                                    _RIET   . F PEI ATIO1-
EST S F SF FR F ,C S    FC0~" AN    'IESF OEAF        l3SEE  SRAP
9. CONSTRUCTION OFTHE FIRSTSIX CENTEES                                          _          _    _    _    _                                                          =
10.  CONSTRUCTION OF 24 CENTERS                                                 _                                                          F O FE   !       S           TS -     RD E
11. CONSTRUCTION OF WELLS AT THE CENTERS                                         _          _    _ 
F2. TRAINING ANS RETRAINING OF PERSONNEL FOR THE
24 CENTERES
F3.  FORMATIVE EVALUATIONOF PROGRAMS
14.  REVIEW0F 1.EARPROGRAMS  l6CENTERSI
1F.  REVIEWOF2.SYEARPROGRAMS  I CENTERS>I
16.  EXTERNAL EVALUATION (CONSULTANTS)
17  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE   ,N
*CONTINUOUS ACTIVITY               INCLUDES EVALUATIONF   'SE> SENT O   JANCF   CENTEE OFE=ATING     2 3.         i
WSFId Ba,Fk-8575IR)






CIeMPARAIVE FDU04TI09 INDICATRRS
RNPICAPIOA      Li--tay        tdeetteo         Ra-ota  to   T  lTtlPie-a
Populatloo    te           ~~~~~      ~         ~        ~~Rate  to ltoe  daea.tto-    TrEilIe  -rIa>   Itdet
Tact            carier prirea   (Si~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~ el -e tapOta  (Fou ir ix-   perdetor,   P'c o'l-rt        pa
rlIot     10(U9$          Adulte>       9carket          ptlue           eee   r        ai       e       are
111       (71             129            141              121            161             (71             (9)(3)  (4
Po.rpartiedcai oa  dewaer                   AITANOED
oerieouadutataoceyataca  ce~~d          oti                          93             71I              120   R19 48                                     4.3             9.9              9926
eta cualpela  etrf    e    .o a.c.ta        (ad                              97            2.                4:,040           91             252              8.2           21.1              99             24
etttaiorlir P.ec                      teruato, Toi,  Rtp.             197            113               221              99              149             4.2            14,2              91            32
batotaeoarteroo~~~~~~eerlaa. ~~Jpe                               1971          105.2              2,121            99                .              .            R.7               99             25
Reotrer,  Oc tha basia et tht  Otiharleedu              ~~~~~           ~~~ ~~~~~~1971  1202,621           99             21               7.7            I7.R              95I           29
pr ze aa   ooaaooa                      N-e Oaelaod                    19 71            2.9             2,470            99              11l             4.9R           065               99            27
eepalae  _bolaT  a.ppat..htd          Ro-a                           1970             2.9G O           ,20R            9               169              0.7           17.5              99            22
.ile  1r-a    Daulo.    at  pe-              Scelc                          1970            .1 RG            4,2~40 O,       '9 9             311             9.0            15.0             100            18
s_a`d ia eha felleelog tabla                Ueitad Kiegdee                  19 70          Il.9 O            1,420 0          97               94             59             12,               81            29
har  bac  ella-ted 1a-galy RT               R. S. A.                        1970          207.1 RG            I ,160oG        99              253             5.9~           18.0              97I           2 5
rata  tcet    h a ettaldar
beaccada  tetacadîa1.lae191                                                                 89122                              2t              23EP            2.2            9.21 E           99E           233R
daflalatara arR  telll                       2.Ieaa                          92               .              1,52             985Il.                                         14.8972
Iialea, ta    - elelahaaa"""aY              3, Soaît                       1972            34. OG            1,100 2          84 0            20              2.4            12,5 E           91             55
-aa  data  tt atoll lop.tetta
Icaz.s.a - etapeets  çt  th.                408004
B.k la aaekîag la iepeaca
ths-  ptgesiaî    E tht.                    1. Algeala                      191            1.                    62           253              3 4F P          ,             29.8 p            64            40
apalce   a   psaaal               2. Pca-a..97                                    5.  2               0            ..                               3,0             2.               74            48
reaeh.  Ta abs uta et phase  3. 2,4,0,                   2~~~     ~      ~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~972  1.9 215                l ..          4.0            20.               73X9          6
data,  ahi lalîealtg qatî~~~~  ~     ~~~~~~~            ~           ~~~~~          ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~liti-  4.  3hd27  .7G 2  9  O  7          3D            4.0.31          45                37
ateshaald ha beaca  Oc                 5.-S.g (8>                     1970             1.1 2              270 G         90               1 4             5.            2.2               80I 3
7.Bhlaia1970                                 25.21 O              Il P           7               2              2.            20.0              17            51
(1) 'tdaeattet   at delictO la  8. Rahea                 1975            t.5 O              700 O~~~~~~~l~~  ...53'                        9.0           22.0..                           48
tha athla   taludas ail  Gd.                9   h...                        2971            8.8                230 O1 .                         3             4.7           21.'7             7              29
artiet ted cealareg,  leecal    1<;~~~l. Io-ey Ce..sa            1972            5.4                 340            9 A             21 J            8.9           24,7              32 
ted ce-ata;l. <tapa                                                         190            2.7620 G                           320               a S 9.3 R                   20.0               64            34
( p ''eaa'tutle                          2   eeh                          93             0.  O              10             40                4.1           4.7           22.2               65            45
ttatedeataca  tt                  13   î la87                                       . il,212,                        19i                             3.            11.7               50x           31
fitet laa    aadsaa                        I4,  -1i,1                      1972             5.  O               7  O          1                 3             4.6           312.3              18            40
typa( .  getra, caîhaloal,                 15.MOuitar ia                   1970             1.2G                              il7 o 1           2             475           2  1.150                         2
t9lelaa                                   1,ittlie                         97              9.9                29             0Il                             37            11.79                            31
17.  eer                        1970            15.4 i              262           20O               9              4.1Nt         19.4,             54            25
12>  'V.-taiooa..   aîuatl                 il1. NigerIa                    19 71           56.5                140          3.                                 .2NT         ...               34X            271
(Cel.10   icludra atro1-                   19. Scea                         91             4.9                 252           10               Ol p           4.0 T351R                        2             46
,eatteictaeheioal,  do6ettrtlal,  20. Sierre hautel.          1968            2.7 i              220 G          27                4             2.9            19.5C             122           21
a1rit~1eoral,  verarloual  ced      21. S-ttlie                     1972             2.9Gi7                                                                           7.0              13            25
boe..to.   e ....   ae;22. Saod-                                            1972           16.1GO               1290          12                t             4.5            12.              38             42
(4) ~'Lit-.y   (C~l. 3          23. Suoeilced                    1972            9.46                 90 O         29              10              4.2 P           l'.              89            29
142 ''Lit tracy ratea   (Pot. 3)  ~~~24 -Oaeaw                   1971           12.2                110 O          .                 4             42             16.4             37             45
araea ,ly  btlod tro                2s.    -092                                       1 G1              139 OG         25A               85.02N                      24.23Q            46  3O         2
t eeowror tetaeeta .  0e .ay         26. Typer Telta                 1972            0.5G                 70 O                           2             4.             27.8              1             45
toxaethayer   oelyappte..t..27- 01                                   1970            09.2                 90            il1               O             5.7T          t.                 94
aae e d A   e  obiu   tt            29Rahie                         1971             4.2                292            42              28              5.6           17.4              itP            52
(5)    ubli   auautiturae*t      CaNtRAL MIRiIlA 4190 CARIBBRe
edtte'(laie. 4 acd 6>
taaeeelciaîed                     1. Cott  Rite ,                1971            1.79                              t920                            5.0           282.0              84            29
tatrretaeteitue    aotd               2   olitttpii                  1972             4.1, I3  O                        Ei              91              2.5            8.4              80             54
te adue-al-  by pahir auR                   3.  lSîee                      19171            2.7                220           TO T              9              2.2           26.6Qo            69             37
qae-yubitatuta                           A 4. Rutel                     14                .                 29  O         3  TA                 t          2.5 I         17.6              43             38
5.I Rodra1977                                   2.6GO              109 O         52               Il             2.9            18.2              85            37
069  'Pto1eetrtia    (ot.                6. Jauaiee                     1949             1.9G O              22  O                         24              4.4           19.0              86x O     
7      Iea  9   -r-arroarbeol y-aar         7. caite                       1970            52.40 C700 O                      76               19              2.6           17.1              7 2           46
ccd oece rth  per-arrga  rO                 9. Naretegea                   196              2.1 i              450 G         53               10              2.4           19.               89E            36
aletl    rhld-aareld                   9.Teicidad a- luug             1971             1.9                940           90               40             5.1            10.9              95            35
etel,pblir arR  ptte..a  b0
lavI.Oby ara       -  -oaab)a-
tha  Oaralepirg re    -ate    lg
ieelto lotha           Ilure        1. Er-Il                        1901           93.2 i              469 o          60 t             16HR           3.0 O          12.0H             8 4           31EO
et ba_it dat  (la  *Ega-                    2. Chlle                       1969             9.9C i78  i                      90               32              54            29.0               go99P         40
apeellut popeietletetd           2. ~~~~~~CeI-cia               1970            22.3C 4              70 O         7  i             12              4.0           19.9              90             36
"-el- cn     'lc).   Etrllev               4.tee                          1990             t3                 3T0 O           8A              90             3.20          21.               71             36
fLotertrttatly at  highar             5.GY.u                           94               .                 390O           2A              35             58c            14792h                          3
eh-e th.  _tha-  ePtf      at               6p taretcy                     1970             0.4                28Ot  O       79                S2.2                         14                899            26
e--ully ioatheo'.  C,ateged                 7.PVet                          1971           14.4                490            72               10             4.5            21.1             90             37
etudeetu OSera corlaciRelt      ~~~~~8. Ta-aea l                1970            10.1 A            1,90 0O         81               45              4.9           22.0              90             33
1. te-gladeh                   1973           02.4C                 70O  G       22                               1.2           22.2              58            40
2. Chic-  (ReloatI             1973            14.9 P              430 O          2               19 .2           3.2           14                99            40
3. lede                        1971          551.'1                110           29                2 AT1          0.6 AT        ..1                              43A
4 i. Icoec971                                119.2                  60           56IQ                             2.6  lP 1.0 F                   797X O          9
5. Irac                1901~~~~~~~~~I  29.9               450            37               1l             2.1            109                2            23
6.Irtq                         >970             9.7i               3200G         28               19              6.7           18.3              64            22
7. Jerdao                      1922             24i                20 i G         91                              7.             7.01O                          2
9.K -ro                        1971            31.8'               290           95 c             13.9            3.6           187              100 O           59
9. Lth"tlt                     1971             2.0                86             860             21 F            4.0           21.0              7919
10.  Mlalyela                   1972            11.1 O              400 i         90                2              4.4           20.9              90XC           32
il. Trac                        1972             0.6 i              4590 4        20               12              2.3            3.9              24X            Il3
12. Paha-tac                    1972            62.7 i              129 i         39                I              1.3            0.0              48            3l
13. Philipice                   1972            27.9C               2 40 i        72                6.3            4.6           29.R             119 O          30
14 S-9engo-                     1972             2.0              1,200 G         73l              46              3.1N          il11.            107XO          32
15  Ihl l-td                    1973            39.8                234           92                O              3.1           19.1              892            29
16. T-ra                         99              62i                340 A         49 A              9              3.5           07192X O                          2
17.Tet,atArAht.                 09 71            59                  90           10                12             1.0            94                 2           400
09.Ta--tp..tR.                  1975OS                              1200          19                60             220           12.6              700            29
IPTORY FO0 ttTttPINO
ceabat of Ceettrwec                                    59              ~~~           ~~~             ~~~~~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~64  64  64  84  65
terRa                                                       î~~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5-989  (1-599  I1.O 9.0 2 3128-'2.39  98-1190  îIh.72)
Quateilea    lopar                                           ~~~              ~~~             ~~~           ~~~~~~~                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~72  19  4.7  21845
Ped iL                                                             52               1                                               74            36
Looar                                             ~~~~                      ~      ~~~           ~~~~              ~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~20  5  2:0  14.0  46  3
9>-ohel,  ..   Datereteoeilale                         cetea      A .1965 et heor                   trr"
-   reectda oh  et relhaR                                                    1966                  y     CI
o   >t.aOclTtdeIte  tTeo Tai het  -ec  tepleyad                     C-1917                      p        lulraterigec
-    Icrlxeet pare-to ta  teedaut,                     T    1~~~            ~            ~~~~~~~~1998  bite  od-e t   ,
t 1920                           tîttApiTata   oadtt
o -1901                           tt-edttg  -v,ala  elt-d
=19 72                 y       h
j     173






VOCATIONAL UPGRADING CENTER (CFPP)                                    ANNEX 2
ANTICIPATED AIIUAL LOADS FOR UPGRADING/TRA3INNG
Organisa\                          Courses per Year                               Activity Hours    per Year
tion    Traineee  No. of   Total      Length of Course  Hours        Shop  Tech-   Drawing       Testing |ngineer-  Manage   Total
Sec-                        courses  Trainees  'Weeks      Hours  per year           nology                 lab.    ing Total  ment
tions
Upgrading
Maintenance
mechanics           12        5         60        6          216    1,080       420   120       180        180        120         60     1,080
Machine tools        8        5         40        6          216    1,080       540   120      180          60        120        60      1,080
Diesel               8        4        32         6         216       864      384   144        48         144         96        48        864
Sheet metal          8        4        32         6          216      864      384   144        48          48         96        48        864
Electronics         10        2         20        8         288       576      288    96        -           96         64        32       576
Radio/television    8         2         16        8          288      576       288    96       -           96         64        32        576
Refrigeration        8        2         16        8          288    1,152      224    96        32          96        96         32       576
Drafting            12        4         48        8          288    1,152      128   192       640          -        128         64     1,152
Building design    12         4         48        8          288    1,152        -    192      704          -        192         64     1,152
Surveying           10        4         40        8          288    1,152       -    192                    -        192         64     1,152
Construction
foremaan             8        4        32         6          216      864      480    96       144          -         96         48       864
Construction
supervisor        10         4        40         6         216       864        -     96       -          -         624        48        864
Total         -         44       424         _          -    10,800    3,136 1,564    2,872          720     1,888        600    10,800
8-hour Technical
Briefing           10        30        300        _           8       240       24C   -         _    -              -      -              240
Additional BEP
C ourses
Mechanics          24         2         48       32         6 + 2    512      -256    -         -         256        _          -        512
Machine tools       24        2        `48       32         6 +      512       256     -         -        256          -        -        512
Diesel              12        2         24       32         8 +      768       256     -        -         512          -        -        768
Electronics         12        1         12       32           20     640      384      -         -        256          -        -        640
Refrigeration       12        1         12       32           17     544       146     -         -        128          -        _
Total          -          8       124        -            -    2,976    1,568      _        _       1,408         -         -     2,967
Apprentices
Various             15
specialisations    20         3         45       32            8     768      384    192       192         _          _         _       768
Total          -         85       893        _          _    14,784    5,328  1,776    3,064       2,128       1,88        600   14,784
(+2):  of which (-) hours in laboratory.
Timetable calculated on the basis of:  36 hours per week perfectionnement
32 weeks with 8 hours per week for the apprentices.






ANNEX 2B
MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS FOR THE HOTE/TOURISM SECTOR
Senegal's tourism potential is considerable in view of its mild
and sunny climate from November through May, its long, sandy beaches,
and its exceptional geographic position. The nunber of visitors grew
from 25,000 in 1968 to 60,000-70,000 in 1972.  The major obstacles to
the creation of permanent tourist flows have been a lack of sufficient
facilities and of trained personnel to meet international levels of
service. The government has therefore chosen a policy of financial
incentives to investors, which is already successful, and of direct
involvement in hotel/tourism staff training to meet requirements for
about 400 p.a. over the next decade.  This figure takes into account
the following elements:
(a)  there will be an expansion of 5,600 rooms (two
beds) by 1980, from a total of 2,675 in 1973;
(b) the corresponding additional number of jobs will
be 4,000 and half of these require no formal
training (except literacy);
(c)  since managerial personnel are trained at the IUT
(Credit 253) and on the job, net training require-
ments for hotel staff are about 350 per year; and
(d)  another 50 staff for travel agencies, tour guides
and related services are needed annually.
Upgrading needs of already employed staff may be a further 70 per year.






Senegal - Second Education Project
Cos-t of the Project
% of total      US$ '000       CFAF (millions)    Taxes    US$ '000       CFAF (millions)
No.    Item               net cost       Net of Taxes     net of taxes        % /    Gross cost_      Gross cost
O       1                     2               3                 4             5           6                7
1. Site development         4.06             607            145.68           21.16       770            184.80
2. Construction            52.31           7,046          1,691.04           21.16    8,937           2,144.88
3. Furniture                5.25             713            171.12           20.05       892            214.08
4. Equipment               13.32           1,808            433.92                     1,808            433.92
5. Technical Assistance    12.80           1,738            417.12                     1,738            417.12
6. Professional fees re-
lated to construction    8.21           1,115            267.60                    1,115             267.60
7. Refinancing of
Merchant Marine School   1.75             239             57.36                       239             57.36
8. Project Unit             2.30             312             74.88                       312              74.88
9. Subtotal               100.00          13,578          3,258.72                    15,811          3,794.64
10. Contingencies           39.93           5,422          1,301.28                     5,422          1,301.28
11. Total net of taxes                     19,000          4,560.00
12. Total gross cost                                                                   21.233          5,095.92
Rate of exchange: 1US$ = 240 CFAF
] % of gross cost                                                                                                      X
December 17, 1974



December 19, 1974
Senegal: Scoïd khc.tlon_Project
Co>st per Stc,deni p1-e e (inf U   Y                                                               Rtte of exchmnge: lS$ =240 CFAF
No. oL    Grocs nrre      [ Cone-trFction         3hrnipure         Cruipnert        TotC1 CostjCost/St. ri.
\ Pro ie tem          S92  l                                                   COtO  sstot cos  /St lot.coc  0 ot/t tot.co    Cost/St   1+ 7  6 + 8 + 10
I-                         2     - -    -     -     -     -    r     -    - - .              9        10                 [   12
1  Science blo                 2750   1864       6.79     3,9 21,196.-   0,365     133.-    0,523           190.-   4,177        1,5L9.-
2  Lower Sec. Schools           990    3430      3.46     o,588      594.-   0,341      41,-   0,070  |   7.    0.705              712.-
B  Rural Training (EMP)        100      320      3.20     0,027      2 26?.-   0,001     11.-    0,007       74.-  0.03[,           352.-
C  Upgrading Center (C?PP)    548       -         -       0,084      153.-   0,033       60.-    0,448  1  818.-   0,565         1,031.-
Di Hotel Training
1. Hotel/room                    50    1960   j 39.00     0,389   7,780.-   0,097  1,940.-    0,163   3, 260.-   o.649          12,980
per room          Iper room           per room           per room               per room
2. Training facilities          190    1650      8.68     0,328  .1,726,-  0,082  i 432.-    0,138          726.-   0,548         2,884.-
3. Boarding                      75     600      8.00     0,105   1,400.-   0,01b    213.-    0,(40   . 533.-   0,161             2,146. -
Comparative Elements
A  Mali Science labs & W/sh .                   10.00              1,28$5.-             120.-               220.-                1,625.-
A  Ivory Coast General Sec.,                     6.10             j  431. -              44.-              191.-                   666.-
D  Hotel Training (Greece)
1. Room (cost per room)                                         4,564.-             472.-               328.-                 5,364.-
2. Training                                                        694.-              75,               278.-                 1,047.-
3. Boarding                                  10.00              1,664.-              203._              104.-                 1,976.-
Mali upgrading Center
(NI Chott 
exclud.i ;g: msite deveLo- )            i                 in '000 UJ$
trecb, Iees         )  i  '000 us$                                 rI
conti ngenci e s)
L2 excold-ing: continigencies )  in '000 US$



Country: Senegal                                           Projeet: Education Il                                                Date. December 16, 1974
Contingency Allowances (in thousands US$)                                                                             Rate of exchange:  1US$ = 240 CFAF
Loc.   te                                       T                    ecnlcat ~Rlnancîing
Cost Components       For, Development   Constructi n   Furniture             Equipment        Assistance IMerch.Mar.Sch    Prof. fees  Proj.Administ.J    Totals
T ot. 7   amounit   7.   aaount    7.  4mount             ~ 7   amount ~  l.Iamount    7.   amount   7.    amount             .  lamount    %jamount
3  4  5    '  6    7        8191   ~~~             ~~~~~10  il  i  12  13    _1      5         6       719                      2
A. Total project Lo                         77.25  5,912  52.31   373         21.8     39      20.001  348   20.00   48         20.00    223   20.100      62    54.21  7,361
cost excludinlg LFr                     22.75 i1,741  47:69 I340          78.15! 1,413   80. 001 1,390   80.00  191         80.00   892   80.00    250        45.79  6,217
contingencies   Tot           I        100.00  7,650 100.00   713    100.001 1,808  100.00' 1,738  100.00  239    100.00 1,115  100.00 I  312   100.00. 13,578
B. Contingencies                          ~1~~                                ~ ~ -             -                                                               
I .UnforseenI
factors        Loc                    8.59     508   9.92    37        1.3        0     -        -       --                -      --               -65.14             5851
For                    7.93     138  10.00       34      9.981   141     -        -       --                -                       -       34.86      313
Tot                    8.44     646   9.96       71     10.011   181     -        -       --                -                              100.00      898
2.Price increas;e  Loc    p                43.50  2,572  33.51   125    33.671  133   22.70'    79             -        -   in con truc.-  in te           l     64.30!290
~~~~1  Cu                                                                                         i~~~~~~~~Itchîa
For                  41.41n     721  35.59   121    377 463   22.30;  310                -         -     tion             assistyance      35.70!  1,615
Tot.   -r             43.03  3,293  34:50   246    32.961   596   22.381   389            -        -   includd            inld             100.00  4,524
3.Total conting. JLoc        '     ~       52.09  3,080  43.43    162    43.79   173    22.701   79            -         -       - J64.44  3,4-94
F or                  49.34      859  45.59    155    42.751   604   22.301   310         -                 - I-                             35.56  1,928
______________    Tot                   51.47  3,939144.46   317    42.971   777   22.381   389                                       -        -      -          .____   5__422
C. Toal prjec       77.5   8,99   51.4   535          21.97   568 20.081    2    20.001  48             2        r23      2.          2 5.31,5
cost including  Fo,22.43  2,600  48.06   495                              78.03' 2,017    79.921 1,700   80.001 191         80.00   892       80.00    250   42.87  8,145
contingencies   Tot                    .100.00 il 592  00.00 1,030    100.0011 2,585  100.0012,127  100.00  239    100 .00 1,115    100.00   312  100.001 19.000
fl/ Unit prices at :-ppraisal (June 73) have been updated to November 1974 by 30.57. according to rates published by the
"CommissindOfcastion              des ?Prix", Dakar.  The increase in labor cost from June 73 to Nov. 74 went up by 15%
in February 74 and by estimated 14.4% in average as par November 74.
1/ Annual rates of increase: 2nd half 1974, 15.5%; 1975, 15%; 1976, 12%; 1977, 12%; 1978, -
2/   "         " e I   "   :  2nd half 1974, 14.0%; 1975, 13%; 1976,  8%; 1977,  8%; 1978, -
3/       "   "~~I    Il   : 2nd half 1974, 15.0%; 1975, 11%; 1976,  8%; 1977,  8%; 1978, -
4/   "            '   : ~~~~~2nd half 1974,  4.0%; 1975,  6%., 1976,  6%; 1977,  6%; 1978, 6%.



7~~~ncga77Sccond  EducCtron  Project                                                                                                                       Carer ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dereobcr  17,  1974
taplementarcon,  lmnenditore aur7 Diebrsement  Srherlots(i, '000 LIS$)                                                                                                                          Ioeo    ocrne    US$ -240 CiAO
N-o
1974                               1975                                797r                                 1977                                 1978                                 1979
irer            arcoont       I~ ~ ~~ ~~                    ~ ~ 2  3  4  i  2      3        4        I        2        3       4          J,      3         3        4        I        2         I        4         i      2        3        4
7I.  loner S-oondar    col                                                                                                                                                                                           
Upgrading, Center (CF57P)                           .        .   .....j-
E.   l,e  Trario0Ë CerrtorI                                                                                                                                  
A.   ScneCrtr
C, Rora  Train.in0  orc.1t,FMP)                -           
D,  Upîr-di,f.Cener  (cors>)
E.   In.tel tIrain ingCe      r
-  L.  Louer S-rocl-rY Sel- ois
C.  Bora]  TraiinSn Ceot(CMP)
B.Iltc7 Irai.nz -B
8.   Moe    oorari-  Sr)ooln
E-  Mordrant marine Sc  o              -____-____                                             ___
A.  Prcience  Certr
B    mue .  S nr   rsO   osn 13,78-2                                                                78 2__4798                                                                           Li-       I
C.   (roi  700  nr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Crrr . (OMS>~~_   4                                                                                                                         3         ,8                1
O2.  Cotiraglr                           5,42                                            4 .8                                 38Cerr-te--t38                                       30#       3315                 î                          2
7    r77Ira n9,0rrr  Cor                                                                         ( rot             2                                                                                               7
F.   Merdant Marine Orlon I  c.a.   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                                      2  2    205        ,33 1  18          27          5i        1i1                      -1
2.   Contingenctoe~               r5                                             440    181,      738        4707  2638        93105    944      700 JO 9  12,16 13-O4 .    3                    2456~   .13,1     12'9 II   2  24,98



ANNEX 7
Senegal: Second Education Project                                     December 20, 1974
Disbursement in 1000 US$                                              Rate of exchange:
lUS$ = CTAF 240
Disbursements                 Undisbursed
Implenentation       Quarterly    |   Cumulative            Belances
Quarters         '000 US$   %       3000 US$     %      o000 US$    %
1     -         -        -         -      15,000   100.00
2     166      1.11      166       1.11   14h834    98.89
1975      3      577      3.85      743      4.96   14h257    95-04
4     964       6.43   1,707      11.39   13,293    88.61
1   1,258       8.39   2,965      19.78   12,035    80.22
2   1,640     10.93   4,605       30.71   10,395    69.29
1976      3   2,339      15.59   6,944      46.30    85,o56    53.70
h   1,925     12.83   8,869       59-13    6,131    40.87
1   1,870     12.47  10,739       71.60    4,261    28.4o i
2   1,577     10.51  12,316      82.11    2,684    17.89
1977       3   1,124      7.49  13,440      89.60    1,560    10.40
4     998      6.65  14,438       96.25      562      3.75
1     212      1.41  14h650       97.66      350      2.34
2     165      1.11  14,815       98.77      185      1.23
1978      3       84      0.57  14,899      99.34       101     0.66
4      73      0.48  14,972       99.82       28      0.15
1      14      0.09  14,986       99.91       14      0.09
2      14      0.09  15,000    100.00         -        -
1979      3      -        _         _
_4  _                     _         _i_
2     _        _         _         _          _        _
3     _                  -              
Total         15,000   100.00 j _- 






SENEGAL
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
Z                                 (M)
z                         17             ENTP
c-,D                 16~ ~~ <L)   ENCR              (A>              B
w
<                 ~~~~~15 (K>          X           X                               (C>
14
z                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14
>    W                       UL                                                                                              S            BEP            
<         12              13 13                                                                                            3                                              13
z
w
w
C-
DF
Q GGENERAL                                                                 TECHNICAL
w                 NON-FORMAL               8
w
-J
)          I                                                                                CEPE
1N 1             1                                                                                LOWER SEC.
G-                                                                                         6      (PREPARATORY LS 95
w
3          L--    ---  -  -   -   -  -   -   -   --   -  -    -   -  -   -   -  -
-Jw
A:        Execut,ve Secretaries
B:        Men's Technical Teacher Training
C:       Tourism Guides Hostesses- Marine: Mechanical Officers
D:       Women's Technical Teacher Training
E:        Regional Teacher Training College (Primaryl
BEP:     Vocational Diploma
CEPE:   Primary Certificate
DFEM:   Lower Secondary Diploma
ENCR:   National Training School for Rural Technicians
ENTP:   Nat,onal Pubhc Works School
H:       General Secondary Education, Baccalaureate
1.       Technical Education: Commercial and Maths/Engi.eering Baccalaureate
J:       Technical Education: Technical Baccalaureate
K:        Diploma after two vear program: Sc,ences, Letters, Technology (I.U.T.)
L:        License (After Three Years) Bachelor's Degree/End of Teacher Training Course (Lower Secondaryl at E,N,S.
M:        Masters Degree
 ----  Majority leave after 6 - 5 beginning 1975
*Essentially the same Curriculum as SecondarY General Education
World Bank-B50B






SENEGAL
DISTRIBUTION OF ENROLLMENTS 1971/72
Age/Grade
5                                                                                                 33
257469
HIGHER EDUCATION
3   % All Enroliments 1.4                                                                   487   150
Total 4632 (Senegalese 2728)
2   Total Technical / Scientific 860 (Sen.)                                                899 §  188
% Senegalise Higher Enroliments 31.0
1                                                                                      1,956-v_  -  415
13   % All Enrollments 2.6                                                              1,497        522
_- _   Total 8388
12   Total Vocational / Technical 2193                      BOYS                               04    588                                                               UPPER SECONDARY LEVEL
1_ _    %U.Secondary Enrollments 26.0                       BOYS                             2       588                            GIRLS
il                                                                                       [  2-,811    929
15-16  10   Total 49,285                                                                             7,53  2,788
_-     % All Enroliments 15.0
14- 15   9   Total Technical / Vocational 2016                                                             3,177--.
c          _       % L.Secondary Enroliment 4.0                                             - - - -                                                                                  LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
r     13-14   8                                                                                                 3
D     12- 13   7
o
ir                                                                                                                                                           - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  
11 -12   6                                                                                              28,396  15,252
10i                                                    _                                               2352 _.4,9 - - - -_  - - - ----  -=  _= -_    
rN    10-11   5                                                                         _         =         ,2   4*    
Total 269,970
9- 10   4   % All Enrollments 81.0                                                                        15,765                                                              PRIMARY
w
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  - -  -  --  -=-  -  - -                 _       __=- __-_ - - -- - -- -  - -     -  -i           _gi___
oL    8-9    3                                                                                            2,977 17,362                       -
F0                                                                                                        -  -  -=----  -       ----        ----     
uj    7 - 8    Z   -===_ = = -==== -== -- =  ~- -----=-- -=X---=== =-=- --=== - -~        2967 - -, 1  ---=----=-- =
D _ _ . _~~~~~~~--_   __-   -    _      -  -  -  -- -_ -    -  -_ -  -  -  -    - --
LU    6 - 7  _                                                                                            32,823.  22, 700 
ro                                     -=                                                                        _-=----- - -=    -  -=  -=--= -_ - -===-- - -= - ==     =-
35,000      30,000        25,000        20,000       1 5,000        1 0,000       5,000           0           5,000         1 0,000       1 5,000      20,000        25,000
ENROLLMENTS
World Bank-8509






SPANISH SIAHARAf                  ALGERiA               LIBYA
!ENEGAL                                                                                            M  A U R 1 T A  N' 1 A
j
EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                                           Pod.,
rp-,
;;                           Ï,                                                                                                                           SENEGAL Y- _.J
Reglonal bound.,,es
R                      C)
partent0j b.urda,les                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A,
101,0-i capitot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VOLTA
Reg,o.1 captals                                                                                                          0                                                                                                                                    NIG e RIA
0     Depa,tmertal capital$                                                                                                                                                                                             SIERRA LEO            IVORY
Inte,,itert sl,eams
EDUCATON PROJECT
Rural education troiffirg center(
Lo.er secondary schQDi(4)                                                                                           'e                     7,I
vocoliorçI lraiinq cente,l2)                                                                               -11ee                                                                                                                     12.
com,,an scierce technology                                                                                                                                        Z_
FOC[ilfles(4)                                                      R    'E     C,     1           N_-
,QLIrgue,e
,,?Kebeme,       - - - - - -
J/                                       0     F
A tla n e  c                                                0        N
D      1    0      U     R      B     E    L
REGION  OF                                                                                                                                                                                                              kelo
CAP-VERT
M'bocke f
*Thies
1,,by,                                     NI
-T- H   1  E   S           .      ,                                                                                             «.              , -         -
*Diour bel
Ocean
'Bour
F          1  N    E      'S       L, (D    Ü   M                                                    î
R   E  G ,  1   0  ,N                        0   F                                             M              L
iougn       Kctolack              OK.ff,ire
14'
Tombacoundo               E                               L
0     R     1    E            "-T__A   --.L-
ve,
OVeligara
,le
C),                                                                                                                     NI
R   E  i(G   1                                 0  F                  C                   A   M   A                 C   E
0     10    20    30    40    50    60                                                                                         Kold.
Mil es                                       Bignonoo
Ip  O O  49  O 6p O eO 9O  1 0
Kedougou
Kilometers
CAP SKIRRING
lh,               ,, 'hi,, -11 4,
GUINE A  BISSAU                                                                                                                                       G            1 N  E
;10
1113'



