CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 530 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 19, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 530 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 19, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 19, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Unit" means the Unit referred to in Section 3.01(c) of this
Agreement;
(b)   "EMP" means Enseignement Moyen Pratique;
(c)   "CFPP"   means Centre de Formation      et de Perfectionnement
Permanent; and
(d)   "First Education Project" means the project described in the
Development Credit Agreement dated June 18, 1971 between the Borrower and
the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of work or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 1985, and ending September 15, 2024, each installment
to and including the installment payable on September 15, 1994 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
(b)   Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds be made
available in a special account at the Trdsor established for the purpose of covering
the anticipated total Project expenditures of the Borrower for at least each quarter.
The said account shall also provide funds to a caisse d'avance established in the
Project Unit to cover the current expenditures of the Project Unit.
(c)   For the purpose of overall management and coordination in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall expand and maintain in its Ministry
of Public Works the Project Unit established tinder the First Education Project,
with such responsibilities, powers, services and facilities as are specified in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(d)   For the efficient operation of the Project Unit, the Borrower shall:
(i) promptly appoint a second building engineer and a site supervisor and additional
clerica, staff; (ii) appoint one of the building engineers Deputy Project Director,
all to be acceptable to the Association and engaged upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; and (iii) make the Project Director responsible for
contracting, in consultation with the Association, up to two man-years of the
specialists' services under Part B of the Project, under short-term contracts approved
by the Association.
(e)   The Borrower shall also appoint as Sub-project Managers, the officers
responsible for such administrative or operational divisions within the Ministries
in charge of National Education, Tourism and Promotion Humaine, and with such
responsibilities and powers, as are specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the procurement of goods
and services ar,d in the preparation of designs of and specifications for buildings
and other facilities included in Part A of the Project and in the supervision of
the construction works included therein, the Borrower shall employ consultant
architects and curriculum and equipment specialists acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In carrying out the construction works included in Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall ei.ploy contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) award the scholarships included in Part
BI of the Project to candidates and for programs of study acceptable to the
Association; (ii) with regard to the specialists' services included in Part B of the
Project, employ specialists acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions


﻿6
satisfactory to the Association; (iii) appoint counterparts, acceptable to the
Association, to said specialists, in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the
Association; (iv) cause said specialists to develop and implement data collection
procedures (including tasks required for evaluation) for the various facilities referred
to in Part A of the Project; and (v) make available to the Association, as soon
as available, interim  and final reports on said evaluation for review  by the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for approval,
promptly   upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedule for the buildings and
facilities included in the Project, and material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. The Borrower
shall also submit to the Association for its approval the design of the pre-investment
study described in Schedule 2, Part B4 of this Agreement and shall consult with
the Association on the findings of the study.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire not later than the dates scheduled for the beginning of construction
all such land or rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
and operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the


﻿7
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07.      The Borrower shall ensure that two counterparts to each
of the specialists under Part B2(i) of the Project, selected in consultation with
the Association, be trained as specialized inspectors for science, technology and
domestic science.
Section 3.08.      The Borrower shall utilize the services of technical
assistants from international or bilateral sources for the development of the
programs and the provision of instructional staff for the hotel and tourism training
and upgrading center and shall cause the instructional programs so prepared to
be furnished for its and the Association's approval.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall (i) cause the Planning Services of its
ministry responsible for Planning, jointly with its ministry responsible for Promotion
Humaine, to carry out a survey for the purpose of identifying the areas and
groupements ruraux, the terms of reference of which shall be established in
consultation with the Association, which are capable of providing the conditions
necessary for the EMP centers to be established under Part A of the Project; and
(ii) consult with the Association on the results of the said survey and select the
groupements ruraux for said EMP centers.
(b)   The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Association prior to the
construction of each of the EMP centers, establish within the groupements ruraux
an appropriate form of community participation in the centers.
(c)   The Borrower shall establish a minimum        age acceptable to the
Association for the selection of youth for the EMP centers.
(d)   In order to facilitate the establishment of future EMP centers, the
Borrower shall conduct evaluations of the EMP instructional and training programs
and shall prepare case histories on the establishment of the EMP centers after each
phase of their establishment, and shall furnish such evaluations and histories
promptly to the Association for consultations thereon between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the Ecole Nationale de
Formation Maritime recruit promising candidates even if such candidates lack formal
education; and (ii) such candidates be provided with such complementary basic


﻿8
courses as shall be necessary to allow such candidates to follow courses of the
said School for prospective seamen.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that the accounts of the h6tel
d'application are kept separately from those of the hotel and tourism training and
upgrading center.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each entity and institution
included in the Project to carry out its operations and manage its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and educational policies       -
and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the educational institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made; and (ii)
take appropriate administrative and financial measures for the purpose of such
maintenance.
(c)   Without limitation of the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, in the operation of the lower-secondary
schools, laboratories and workshops included in Parts Al and A2 of the Project,
(I) ensure that a specific budgetary allocation be made annually; (ii) establish
inventory and budgetary procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for each center.
(d)   Without limitation of the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Boirower shall ensure that an adequate number of teachers
or instructors trained under the Project be made available to operate the facilities
included in Parts A 1, A2 and A5 of the Project.
Section 4.03. For the purpose of carrying out an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the education or training programs at the       lower-secondary


﻿9
laboratories and workshops, at the CFPP center and at the hotel and tourism
training center, the Borrower shall, on the date on which said facilities come into
operation or such other date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association, have established a permanent system, satisfactory to the
Association, fcr following the careers of graduates of such programs.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, within one year from the date hereof,
establish a conseil de perfectionnement for the CFPP with such composition, powers
and duties as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall consult with the Association on the planning
of education and training programs with a view to ensuring maximum adaptation
of such programs to employment needs.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 16, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rue Charles Lafne
Bofte Postale 4017
Dakar, S6n6gal


﻿10
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s / Andr6 Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil works                     4,792,000          63% of total
under Part A                                       expenditures
of the
Project
II.   Furniture, equip-
ment and materials
under Part A of
the Project
(a)   Directly                   1,808,000         100% of foreign
imported                                     expenditures
(b)   Locally                      535,000         100% of total
manufactured                                 expenditures
(c)   Imported but                 178,000         100% of total
purchased                                    expenditures
locally
III.  Services of                      1,1 15,000        100% of total
consultant                                         expenditures
architects and
technical spe-
cialists under
Part A of the
Project


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
IV.   Services of                      1,977,000          100% of total
specialists and                                     expenditures
scholarships under
Part B of the
Project
V.    Costs of two                      312,000           100% of total
building en-                                        expenditures
gineers, a site
supervisor and
an accountant,
furniture, equip-
ment, supplies
and office space
for Project Unit
under Part C of
the Project
VI.   Unallocated                     4,283,000
TOTAL               15,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is
also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed
to b. "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.


﻿13
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   expenditures in respect of Categories I and II on account of
expenditures incurred for the establishment of the hotel and tourism training and
upgrading center and the h6tel d'application until the Borrower shall have entered
into an agreement with the representatives of the industry for the purpose of
assisting the Borrower in the operation of said center and h6tel d'application.
(c)   expenditures in respect of Categories 1, 11, and IV on account of
expenditures incurred for the implementation of the EMP program, until the
Borrower shall have made provision to ensure the cooperation to the said program
of all necessary technical staff from the relevant services.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation when applied to Category 1, 11(b) or 11(c) cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿14
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:
1.   The design, construction, furnishing and equipment, and replacement of
instructional material and consumables during the first three years of
operation, of eleven prototype centers consisting of multipurpose laboratories
and basic technology and domestic science workshops, each center serving
a number of lower-secondary schools, as detailed in paragraph Al of the
Exhibit to this Schedule.
2.    The  design, construction, furnishing  and  equipment of    the four
lower-secondary schools listed in paragraph A2 of such Exhibit.
3.   The design, conversion, furnishing and equipment of a Centre de Formation
et de Perfectionnement Permanent (CFPP), for the upgrading and training
of industrial employees and self-employed skilled workers, on the site of
the Centre de Qualification Industrielle de Dakar, converting about 3200 m2
of existing space.
4.    The design, construction, furnishing and equipment of a hotel and tourism
training and upgrading center and of a h6tel d'application and boarding
facilities in Dakar.
5.    (i) The design, construction (with the assistance of the villagers), equipment
and furnishing of thirty EMP centers, as described in paragraph A5 of the
Exhibit to this Schedule; and (ii) the equipment of one national and four
regional EMP staff-training centers and equipment for eight mobile
departmental teams charged with establishing and developing the EMP
programs.
6.    Equipment and rehabilitation of classrooms at the Ecole Nationale de
Formation Maritime in Dakar.
Part B:
1.   Provision of scholarships for: (i) the CFPP center and (ii) for EMP.


﻿16
2.    Utilization of specialists' services for the organization of the initial teacher
training programs and for the subsequent curriculum development,
counterpart training and program development and implementation, namely,
for (i) the lower-secondary laboratories and workshops; (ii) the CFPP center;
and (iii) the EMP centers, substantially as detailed in paragraph B of the
Exhibit to this Schedule.
3.    Utilization of up to eight man-years of specialists' services for training local
personnel and organizing and developing procedures for improved planning
and management in the Ministry responsible for national education and
developing manpower planning capabilities in the Division of Human
Resources of the Ministry responsible for the Plan.
4.    Utilization of up to five man-years of specialists' services to assist the
Directorate of Planning and Research of the Ministry responsible for national
education in conducting a study of alternatives for extending a basic
education to that population not served at present by the existing education
system, and in designing and preparing a subsequent education development
project.
5.    The utilization of two man-months of technical assistance to assist the
Ministry responsible for tourism in the design of the courses, preparation
of equipment lists and recruitment of teaching staff, for the operation of
the institutions referred to in Part A 4 of the Project.
Part C:
The maintenance and reinforcement of the Project Unit, including, inter alia,
the employment of two building engineers, a site supervisor and clerical staff,
and the provision of furniture and equipment therefor.
Parts A and C of the Project are expected to be completed by December 31,
1977; Part B of the Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿17
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
A.    Construction
1.   Laboratories and Workshops
Science                   Domestic          Estimated new
Location                     Lab.         Workshop   sc.workshop        net area (m2)
POINT "E"                     3              4             1                960
LIBERTE III;DIEUPPEUL
(I)                     4               7            1               1373
BLAISE DIAGNE                 3              7            1                1303
KENNEDY                       4              8            1                1499
PIKINE                        4              7            1                1373
THIES                         1              5            1                 897
DIOURBEL                      3              6            1                1205
KAOLACK                       3              6            1                1205
ST. LOUIS (LYCEE CH.
DE GAULLE)         3              6            1                1205
ZIGUINCHOR                    3              7            1                1303
RUFISQUE                      4              8            1                1499
2.   Lower Secondary Schools (replacements)
Class     Science    Technol.   Craft Domest.     Art.     Lang.    Estim
Location   room       Lab.     room       Room Sc. Room     Room       Lab.    net m2
FATICK      13         1          1        1        1           1       1.      1579
GOSSAS      13         1          1        1        1           1       1       1579
KAFFRINE 13            1          1        1        1           1        1      1579
SEDHIOU      7         1          1        -        1           -       1        950
3.    Upgrading and Training Center (CFPP)
Location:
CQID (Centre de Qualification Industrielle de Dakar)
Conversions will be made on approximately 3200 m2 of existing space.
4.   Hotel Training Center;H6tel d'Application
Location: Dakar
(a)  Training Center
Instructional         language        hotel       restaur.   kitchen     estim. net area
space              lab.         model r.       lab.       lab.          (m2)
11                1              1           1          1             1375
(b) H6tel d'Application
rooms       restaurant    kitchen      miscellaneous       estim. net area (m2)
50          1             1               -                  1568
(c)   Boarding Facilities
estim. net area (m2)
500
5.   EMP Centers (30)
Staff housing                     3              Kitchen           1
Assembly room                     1              Hangar            2
Classroom                         1
Workshop                          2
Estimated net area               554 m2


﻿18
B.    Specialists and Approximate Periods of Service - Scholarships
1.    Lower-secondary Laboratories and Workshops:
About 9 man-years of specialists' services in the fields of teacher
training, integrated science, domestic science and family education and in
the design and repair of science and technology teaching materials, to assist
in the introduction of the practical facilities.
2.    CFPP center:
(i)         about ten man-years of specialists' services to provide
instruction at the CFPP center and to assist in its
organization and management; and
(ii)        about two man-years of scholarships for the upgrading of
local instructors for the CFPP center.
3.    EMP:
(i)         about four man-years of specialists' services and      16
man-months of consultants' services; and
(ii)        about 170 man-months of scholarships to assist in the
training of EMP staff.
4.    Hotel and tourism   training and upgrading center:
about two man-months of consultants' services.
5.    Educational Planning and Management:
about six man-years of specialists' services.
6.    Preinvestment study:
approximately five man-years of consultants' services.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October
1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.    In the implementation of the procedures referred to in Part A 1 above, the
following will apply:
(i)         bidders for the civil works included in the Project, except as
described in Part A3(b) below, shall be prequalified as described
in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines; and
(ii)        with respect to contracts for materials, furniture and equipment,
such items shall be grouped in lots so as to permit such bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and
procurement practices and, insofar as practicable, each such lot
shall be for not less than $100,000 equivalent.
3.    Exceptions may be made to the procedures referred to in the Guidelines
as follows:
(a)   with respect to invitations to prequalify for bidding for any contract
for civil works, or to bid on any contract for lots of materials, furniture or
equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000, representatives of member
countries of the Bank and of Switzerland need not be notified as described in
Part 2.1 of the Guidelines; for such lots estimated to cost less than $5,000
equivalent, the Borrower may procure such goods through local advertising
according to its own procedures and without regards to the Guidelines, provided
that contracts so awarded do not exceed a cumulative total of $150,000 equivalent;
and
(b)   with respect to the EMP centers included in the Project the Borrower
may procure required civil works and furniture locally according to its own
procedures.


﻿20
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Senegal may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Senegal if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Senegal equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Senegal.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the


﻿21
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
I.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Review of prequalification:
The Borrower shall, before prequalification is invited, inform the Association
in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
contractors, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the
-       Borrower to the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2. Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of S150,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, a list of all contracts for civil works to be let in carrying out
the Project indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast
timetable for award, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,


﻿22
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendation for award of the said specialists and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
(e)   The Association's approval shall be required for any proposed change
in a contract involving a price increase of more than 10% of the contract or more
than $20,000 equivalent, whichever is less.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
II.   Contracts for Materials, Furniture and Equipment
I.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower shall send to the Association for its
approval, the lists of materials, furniture and equipment required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price. Items shall be
indexed, coded and numbered for identification regarding the respective educational
institutions and the spaces for which they are required. Amendments to such lists
which may be made from time to time shall also be submitted to the Association
for approval. Procurement shall be limited to those items of materials, furniture
and equipment which are specified in such lists and which shall be identified in
contract documents by the same indexes, codes and numbers as in such lists.


﻿23
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    The Borrower shall send to the Association, after bids have been evaluated,
a summary and analysis thereof, and, in the case of a bid for $5,000 equivalent
or more, obtain the Association's approval before awarding a contract.
4.    Promptly after thc contract has been awarded, the Borrower shall furnish
the Association with a certificate signed by the Project Director that the goods
contracted for are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list
approved by the Association under paragraph II.1 above.
5.    Two conformed copies of the contract awarded will be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from its Credit Account
in respect of such contract.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 4
Project Administration and Responsibilities
A.    The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit established under the First Education Project, under the
direction of the Director of Public Works acting as the Project Director, and
consisting further of a building engineer and an accountant, will be reinforced by
an additional building engineer and a site supervisor, appointed on a full-time basis,
and by additional clerical staff.
2.    One of the building engineers will also serve as Deputy Project Director.
Under the general direction of the Project Director, the Deputy Project Director
will assist the Project Director in the day-to-day general management of the Project.
3.    The Project Director shall be responsible, inter alia, specifically for the
following, under the authority of the Minister responsible for Public Works:
(a)   overall supervision of the duties of the Deputy Project Director;
(b)   coordination of all Project activities with the Sub-project Managers in
the ministries and other agencies of the Borrower;
(c)   selection of Project Unit staff and definitions of their responsibilities;
(d)   resolution of any disagreement between the Deputy Project Director
and the Sub-project Managers relative to procurement of goods and services,
including technical assistance;
(e)   arrangements for the selection of specialists under Part B of the Project
and administration of contracts with such specialists;
(f)   drawing up, signing    and administering up    to two man-years of
short-term contracts for the utilization of specialists' services necessary under Part
B of the Project, after having consulted with the Association and obtained its
approval;
(g)   coordination of communications with the Association for the day-to-
day technical aspects of the Project;
(h)   ensuring that quarterly project expenditure estimates are prepared for
timely replenishment of the caisse d'avance provided for in Section 3.01(b); and


﻿25
(i)   ensuring that quarterly progress reports relative to the Project are
prepared and sent to the Association.
4.    The Deputy Project Director shall be responsible, inter alia, specifically for
the following:
(a)   Construction:
(i)          collecting all necessary information relative to the location and
conditions of sites of the facilities to be constructed under the
Project;
(ii)         ensuring that architects' briefs are prepared with the assistance
of Sub-project Managers taking into account sound pedagogical
specifications and other criteria such as reasonableness of prices
and functionality of design-
(iii)       initiating procedure for prequalifying of contractors;
(iv)         necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts;
(v)          arrangements for the review and approval of the reports, designs,
working drawings and other documents relative to construction;
and
(vi)         preparing a program   of regular site visits to be conducted by
the consultant architects.
(b)   Furniture, equipment and materials:
(i)          ensuring that a detailed list of all items of furniture, equipment
and   materials  required   for   the  Project  giving  detailed
specifications for each item, its unit cost and the total cost per
type of item are established by the Sub-project Managers with
the  assistance  of the   consultant architects and    technical
specialists;
(ii)         grouping items into lots that will facilitate procurement;
(iii)        establishing the lots in such a way as to permit easy delivery
to the individual establishments concerned (items should be
coded and numbered);


﻿26
(iv)        necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts;
(v)         inspecting all items of furniture, equipment and materials
received in order to ensure that the quantity and quality of items
received are correct and in accordance with the specifications;
and
(vi)        taking all necessary steps to ensure that items procured are
delivered and stored safely at the locations and on the dates
specified.
(c)   Specialists:
(i)         initiating procedures for the recruitment of all specialists
according to the terms of reference established by the
Sub-project Managers and forwarding to the Association terms
of reference and curricula vitae relative to the employment of
all specialists;
(ii)        preparing and administering specialists' contracts in collaboration
with the respective Sub-project Managers; and
(iii)       aiding   specialists  to  find  suitable  housing  and   office
accommodation.
(d)   General:
(i)         supervising and directing the work of the Project Unit staff;
(ii)        preparing regular meetings with the Sub-project Managers to
ensure effective coordination of all technical aspects of the
Project;
(iii)       drawing up and keeping up-to-date an overall plan for the
implementation of the Project to be based on a critical path
method or any other suitable management technique. Such a
calendar should indicate all activities or decisions to be
undertaken relative to the implementation of all the parts of
the Project;
(iv)        ensuring that all necessary logistic arrangements (transportation,
provision of equipment and furniture, requirement of clerical


﻿27
staff) are made in order that the Project Unit and the different
parts of the Project operate with maximum effectiveness;
(v)          preparing for submission through proper channels applications
for withdrawals from the Credit Account;
(vi)         preparing and maintaining Project accounts including payment
vouchers and applications for withdrawals from the Credit
Account;
(vii)        preparing for the Borrower, to be sent to the Association,
quarterly reports on the progress of Project implementation;
(viii)       ensuring that the Project Director is regularly informed of the
progress in the execution of the Project; and
(ix)         ensuring that aU evaluation reports and regular financial reports
provided for in this Agreement are prepared.
5.    The site supervisor shall be responsible, inter alia, specifically for the
following:
(i)          carrying  out, at least once a week, site inspections, such
inspections to include verification of the quality of the
construction works performed as well as the progress of such
works;
(ii)         being present at all important performances on the sites, such
as soil tests, examination of reinforcement of concrete slabs and
columns, and eventual quantity surveying for unanticipated
measures;
(iii)        preparing, on the sites of the construction works, weekly reports
on the progress of the works in the form of a diary, to serve
as a basis for the preparation of monthly and quarterly progress
reports;
(iv)         verification of interim  payment claims of contractors; and
(v)          such other supervision activities as may reasonably be sought
by the technical staff of the Project Unit.


﻿28
6.    The Project Unit shall be provided with the necessary office space, furniture
and equipment as may be required by its new responsibilities.
B.    The Sub-project Managers
1.    The Sub-project Managers will be appointed as follows:
(a)   the Planning and Research Officer within the Ministry responsible for
Education shall be appointed Sub-project Manager for Parts Al, A2, B2(i), B3
and B4 of the Project;
(b)   the assistant to the Director of Technical and Vocational Education
within the Ministry responsible for National Education shall be appointed
Sub-project Manager for Parts A3, A6, B1(i) and B2(ii) of the Project;
(c)   the officer responsible for Training within the Ministry responsible for
Tourism shall be appointed Sub-project Manager for Parts A4 and B5 of the Project;
(d)   the officer responsible for EMP within the Ministry responsible for
Promotion Humaine shall be appointed Sub-project Manager for Parts A5, B l(ii)
and B2(iii) of the Project.
2.    The Sub-project Managers will be responsible, under the responsibility of
their respective Ministers, inter alia, for performing the following specific tasks
on behalf of the Project Unit for their corresponding part of the Project:
(a)   timely preparation of lists of equipment and materials, together with
appropriate pedagogical specifications, for communication to the Project Unit;
(b)   timely preparation, in collaboration with the consultant architects and
other technical specialists, of all educational specifications for buildings and
equipment under Part A of the Project, with supporting documents, taking into
account the architectural briefs and programs discussed with the Association and
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association;
(c)   establishment of the terms of reference (which will include inter alia
evaluation designs) of the specialists under Part B of the Project and selection
and supervision of said specialists;
(d)   arrangements for the selection and briefing of qualified national
counterparts to said specialists in accordance with the calendar for implementation
of technical assistance;


﻿29
(e)   design, development, implementation and evaluation of education and
training programs; and
(f)   preparation of regular statements of progress for inclusion in the
quarterly reports to be submitted to the Association through the Project Director.
C.    Responsibilities of the consultant architects
The Borrower shall ensure that the persons or agency selected by the
Borrower as consultant architects on the basis of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement
will be responsible for performing the following tasks on behalf of the Project
Unit:
(i)          preparing all architectural designs, plans and specifications with
supporting documents;
(ii)        ensuring that said designs and plans meet specifications relative
to space allocations and to pedagogical requirements in order
to minimize as much as possible any revision of plans during
the period of construction after contractors' bids have been
received;
(iii)       ensuring that the contractors respect the norms and standards
indicated in the specifications;
(iv)        taking all necessary steps to ensure that all furnIture is designed
and manufactured according to specifications;
(v)         ensuring timely   purchase and    delivery  of all construction
materials;
(vi)        verifying and channeling to the Project Unit all requests for
payment to be made to contractors;
(vii)       checking progress of construction through regular site visits; and
(viii)      preparing monthly progress reports for the Project Unit.


