Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14919-IVC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COTE D' IVOIRE
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 10, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =            CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.0                          CFAF 500
CFAF I million     =            US$2.000
SDR1.0                          US$1.49088
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGCD         - Administration Generale pour la Cooperation et le Developpement/
Belgian Aid Agency
BOAD         - Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement/West African Development
Bank
BTI          - Bureau de Trafic International
CFD          - Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CI           - C6te d'Ivoire
DCGTx        - Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux
DPPGP        - Directorate of Planning, Programming and Project Management
EIB/BEI      - European Investment Bank/Banque Europeenne d'Investissement
ERR          - Economic Rate of Return
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GNP          - Gross National Product
ICB          - International Competitive Bidding
IDA          - International Development Association
LIB          - Limited International Bidding
METT         - Ministry of Equipment and Transport and Telecommunications
NCB          - National Competitive Bidding
PFP          - Policy Framework Paper
RAN          - Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger
SCFB         - Societe des Chemins de Fer du Burkina
SICF         - Societe Ivoirienne des Chemins de Fer
SIPF         - Societ& Ivoirienne de Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire
SITARAIL   - Concessionaire Operating Rail Transport on the Abidjan-Ouagadougou-
Kaya Line
SOE          - Statements of Expenditure
SOPAFER-B  - Societe de Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire du Burkina
FISCAL YEAR
October I - September 30



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Nos.
CHAPTER 1.                        COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND ......................... 1
A.                    Country  Setting             ..................             ............................ I
B.                    The Transport Sector ..............................................                              2
- Infrastructure ..............................................                      2
- Sector Management .............................................. 2
- Problems and Policy Issues ...................................... 2
C.                    Developments in the Railway Subsector ................................... 3
D.                    Lessons from  Previous Bank/IDA  Projects and .......................... 4
Rationale for IDA Involvement
CHAPTER II.                       THE PROJECT  ..............................................                                      6
A.                    Program  and Project Objectives  ........................................... 6
B.                    Program  and Project Description ........................................... 6
C.                    Program  and Project Cost ..............................................                           7
D.                    Program and Project Financing                                  ............. 8
CHAPTER III.                      PROGRAM AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................ 9
A.                    Implementation Arrangements .............................................. 9
B.                    Status of Project Preparation ..............................................  9
C.                    Procurement ..............................................                                       9
D.                    Disbursement .............................................. I I
E.                    Auditing and Accounting  ..............................................                          12
F.                    Monitoring and Reporting ..............................................     12
CHAPTER IV.                       PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................. 13
A.                    Traffic Projections ..............................................                              13
B.                    Economic Evaluation of the Program  .................................... 14
C.                    Financial Evaluation ..............................................                             16
D.                    Project Risks ..............................................                                    19
E.                    Project Sustainability ..............................................                           19
F.                    Environmental Aspects ..............................................                             20
CHAPTER V.                        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...... 21



Table of Contents cont'd
ANNEXES
1.1          Shareholders of the Operating Company
2.1          Detailed Program and Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3.1          Project Implementation Manual - Summary Outline
3. 1 A Procurement Arrangements
3. lB Monitoring Arrangements
3.1 C Reporting Arrangements
4.1          Projections for Freight and Passenger Traffic, 1995-2010
4.2          Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
4.3          Cost Data Used in the Economic Analysis
4.4          Financial Results of SICF, 1989/90-1995
4.5          Financial Evaluation of SITARAIL Operations
The Task Manager for the operation is Mrs. Brigitta Mitchell, AF41N; Mr. Karim-Jacques
Budin (TWUTD) contributed substantially to all phases of the operation, and Mr. Kais Ben
Hamida participated in the appraisal and in the preparation of this report. The Lead Adviser is
Mr. Louis S. Thompson, TWUTD and the Peer Reviewer is Mr. Jorge M. Rebelo, LAIEU.
The Division Chief is Mr. James Wright and the Department Director is Mr. Olivier
Lafourcade.



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of C6te d'lvoire
Beneficiary:        Societe Ivoirienne de Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire (SIPF)
Poverty:            Not Applicable
Amount:             SDR 13.5 million, (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA Terms with 40 year maturity
Onlending Terms:   To SIPF: 7.8 percent interest per annum, 15 years maturity including
3 years grace period for equipment rehabilitation; grant terms for
infrastructure rehabilitation
Financing Plan:      See para. 2.7. The project is co-financed by four donor agencies.
Project Objectives
and Description:    In line with the Country Assistance Strategy, the project supports the
disengagement of Government from a major economic activity -rail
transport services-, for the future provision of which a Concession
Agreement-has been signed with a private operator. The project is part
of a larger program, covering both the Ivorian and the Burkina part of
the Abidjan-Ouagadougou-Kaya railways.  The main program  and
project objective is the revitalization of a major transport service
promoting competitiveness and regional integration. It provides the
financing necessary to carry out the long overdue rehabilitation of the
publicly-owned railway assets, that will henceforth be managed and
operated by the private concessionaire; the concession fee covers, inter
alia, the full debt service on the proposed investments. The main
project components cover:  (i) infrastructure rehabilitation  and
maintenance (selective replacement of rails and sleepers, reballasting,
bridge and culvert repairs); (ii) repair and maintenance of motive
power and rolling stock; (iii) rehabilitation and acquisition of
maintenance equipment; (iv) acquisition of computers; and (v) works
supervision and training.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The benefits quantified for the economic analysis are reduced transport
costs on long distance bulk and container traffic, for which rail has an
economic advantage over road transport. Re-establishment of efficient
rail service will provide cost-effective transport for new mining exports
expected with the development of the mining sector in Burkina.
Additional but unquantified benefits are the preservation of an



-11-
important infrastructural asset that will promote regional integration,
and turn rail transport from a loss-making activity requiring
Government subsidization into a commercially profitable one.
Risks are manageable, and would mainly result from a slower than
projected increase in the traffic attracted back from road transport.
However, the concessionaire who has the managerial independence to
operate services on a commercial basis, has competent personnel to
carry out the rehabilitation program on behalf of the patrimony
corporations, and has a financial interest in doing so rapidly and
thoroughly.  Traffic forecasts underlying the proposed investment
program are conservative, and an efficiently run railway should have
no difficulty to attract back from road transport the heavy, long
distance traffic its predecessors have lost due to poor operational and
commercial performance.
Environmental
Impact:              Activities financed under the project concern only rehabilitation of
existing equipment and infrastructure (selective replacement of rail and
sleepers on some sections of the track, re-ballasting, and repairs of
bridges and culverts, all on an embankment constructed some forty
years ago). Rehabilitation works will be monitored by the Ministry in
charge of the environment.  In addition, the concessionaire has
undertaken to provide training for some of its personnel in
environmental assessment and monitoring, so as to avoid negative
environmental impacts during project execution and in operations.
Economic Rate
of Return:           23 percent
Estimated Project
Completion Date:    December 31, 1999
Map:                 IBRD No. 27278



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
CHAPTER I.
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.    Country Setting
1.1    Cote d'Ivoire is one of the principal countries in the CFA zone. It is endowed with a
good natural resource base and has a population of some 13 million people. GDP in 1993 was
estimated at US$9.3 billion. A rapid build-up of external debt in the second half of the 1970s
when prices for the country's main exports, coffee and cocoa, peaked has saddled Cote
d'Ivoire with the highest per capita debt in West Africa: in 1993, when prices for these two
commodities had fallen to half their earlier level, the country's public external debt stood at
about US$15 billion. High population growth, coupled with economic decline, has reduced
per capita GNP from more than US$1,000 equivalent in the early 1980s to about US$515
equivalent in 1994. Due to mounting neglect of basic social services, social indicators have
been deteriorating significantly along with the decline in standards of living over the past
decade: recent estimates indicate that more than 60 percent of the population live below the
poverty line, compared to about 30 percent in the mid-1980s.
1.2    A series of sector and structural adjustment programs supported by the IMF, the Bank
and IDA from 1989 onward did not produce expected results, and GDP per capita contracted
by a cumulative 18 percent over the 1990-1993 period. In January 1994, Cote d'lvoire, along
with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided to complement its internal adjustment
efforts with external measures of adjustment by realigning the parity of the CFA franc from
50 to 100 CFA to I FF.
1.3   Preliminary results for 1994 have been encouraging:  compared to other CFA
countries, Cote d'lvoire has managed the devaluation relatively well and has registered its first
positive growth (1.3 percent) in years. Government has succeeded in bringing inflation (0.3
percent/month in the last quarter of 1994) back to pre-devaluation levels within eight months
following devaluation. This has been largely due to a restrictive wage policy adopted by
Government and followed by the private sector (+ 10 percent of base wages on average).
Production data for the first three quarters of 1994 suggest a positive supply response
following devaluation: industrial production increased by about 30 percent overall, with
significantly larger increases for textiles and wood.
1.4    As regards fiscal policy, Government has been able to meet revenue and expenditure
targets set out in its 1994 Policy Framework Paper (PFP), producing a primary surplus of
about 1.5 percent of GDP. Preliminary data also indicate that export volumes increased by
about I percent, while import volumes fell by some 11 percent. As a result, the trade balance
surplus improved by some US$365 million.
1.5   But while Government succeeded in rapidly stabilizing the economy in 1994, it still
needs to deepen structural reforms, in order to realize PFP objectives which are to: (i) increase
real GDP growth to 6% annually; (ii) generate increasing primary budget surpluses; (iii)
strengthen external competitiveness through trade, price and regulatory reforms; (iv) intensify



-2-
human resource development and poverty alleviation efforts; and (v) protect the country's
natural resource base. This will require decisive additional actions in the areas of agriculture,
transport, the social sectors, and in private sector development.
1.6    Consequently, IDA's assistance strategy over the short and medium term will be to
help Government: (i) strengthen public sector finances through reforms in both revenue and
expenditure execution; (ii) promote private sector development through continued liberalization
of trade, financial and labor markets, and through investment in agriculture, industry and
transport; (iii)  make the human resource development program  more effective through
increased focus on primary health care, AIDS, population policy and basic education; (iv)
strengthen institutional capacity through existing technical assistance programs; and (v)
intensify environmental work through projects and through the NEAP process.
B.    The Transport Sector
1.7    Transport Infrastructure.    C6te  d'lvoire's transport sector absorbed  massive
investments during the 1970s and 1980s, not all of them economically justified. The country's
transport infrastructure is therefore very well developed: it has a road network of some 68,000
km, of which 5,300 km are paved; two deep water ports in Abidjan and San Pedro; three
international airports (Abidjan, Bouake and Yamoussoukro) and 22 smaller airfields serving
regional centers; and a single-track international railway line connecting Abidjan to
Ouagadougou and Kaya (630/1,260 km in Cote d'ivoire).
1 .8    Transport sector management has been less satisfactory. The Ministry of Equipment,
Transport and Telecommunications (METT) is charged with the administration of all sector
activities, from planning and programming, through road maintenance works execution by
force account, to supervision, coordination and regulation. A Directorate for Large-Scale
Works (Direction et Contr6le des Grands Travaux, DCGTx), was first set up within the
METT, but worked directly under the Presidency until 1990, when it was transferred to the
Prime Minister's office. It has had a powerful role in the technical and financial auditing of
activities of all major projects (costing US$1.5 million equivalent or more) in the public and
parastatal sectors. While it supplanted the role of the sector ministries in works programming,
procurement and supervision for well over a decade, it now works as a public sector company
(Societe Nationale) under the authority of the Prime Minister, and functions as a high-powered
Consulting Agency that carries out assignments on demand. Intermodal coordination,
theoretically provided by the Directorate of Planning, Programming and Project Management
(DPPGP) of METT, has traditionally been, and remains, weak.
1.9    Problems and Policy Issues. A large-scale National Transport Plan study was carried
out in 1989, followed by a Bank sector review in 1991 which covered the road, rail, maritime
and air transport subsectors. The study identified major problems and policy issues in the
areas of investment planning, of infrastructure maintenance financing, of operation and
management of the main public enterprises active in the sector, and in the existing regulatory
framework for transport activities.  A proposed IDA Transport Sector Loan, designed to
address some of these problems, became stalled over disagreements on the scope of proposed
reforms. Preparation of a subsequently proposed Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
has also been slow. While the dialogue continues, it is becoming increasingly evident, that the
absence of decisive transport sector reform not only adds needless costs to local transactions,
thus hampering efficient functioning of internal markets and delivery of social services, but is
also very damaging to COte d'lvoire's competitiveness in external markets. Redress of some
of the most costly monopoly practices in the maritime transport sector has been achieved under



-3-
the 1994 Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 2656-IVC). The one subsector where significant
reforms, promoted under the ongoing Privatization Support Project (Cr. 2363-IVC) have
actually been introduced over the past two years, is railways.
C.    Developments in the Railway Subsector
1.10   The railway, a 1,260 km single track metric line constructed between 1904 and 1954
and connecting Abidjan and Ouagadougou, was managed from 1960-1986 as a public
corporation jointly owmed by Burkina and Cote d'lvoire (Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-
Niger, RAN). Initially the favored mode for all bulk and passenger transport between the
coast and the Sahelian hinterland, the railways attained their operational peak in the mid-
seventies, when RAN transported close to a million tons of freight and some 4 million
passengers annually. In the late 1970s, operational and commercial performance of RAN
declined, while the road networks in the region improved, and the port of Lome emerged as a
competitor to Abidjan for Burkina traffic.  With increasing competition from  a rapidly
developing trucking industry, the share of traffic carried from the coast to Burkina by rail and
road respectively reversed from two-thirds/one-third in the mid-1970s to one-third/two-thirds
in the late-1980s, turning an initially profitable entity into a loss-making one.
1.11   A 1982 Diagnostic Study of RAN (financed under a C6te d'Ivoire Technical Assistance
Loan, Ln. 2059-IVC) identified the company's major problems and proposed a detailed
financial rehabilitation plan. This was to be implemented over the 1984-1990 period, with the
help of experienced expatriate management, and supported by an IDA Railway Rehabilitation
Project.
1.12   Disagreements between the two co-owners prevented adoption of this plan and RAN's
performance continued to deteriorate. In 1986, a decision in principle was taken to separate
the railways into tmw national companies, Societe ivoirienne des chemins de fer (SICF) and
Soci&e des chemins de fer du Burkina (SCFB); it took until 1989 for the two companies to
become fully operational. As was easily foreseeable, this separation further exacerbated the
inefficiencies in the provision of rail transport services in the corridor and led to more shifts of
long distance traffic to road transport.
1.13  In an effort to stem and, if possible, reverse a trend that had reduced international
tonnage transported by rail to less than 300,000 tons per year, the railway component of the
Burkina Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Program (Cr. 2332-BUR), approved by IDA
in early 1992, required the establishment of a joint SCFB/SICF Office (Bureau de Trafic
International, BTI) responsible for handling all international freight traffic and providing better
service for commercial customers. Although BTI had some initial success, traffic (down to
less than 220,000 tons in 1994) and revenue losses continued, and it became clear that only
drastic restructuring could prevent the financial collapse of the two companies and their
subsequent liquidation.
1.14   Consequently, in July 1992, the Governments of Burkina and Cote d'Ivoire announced
their decision in principle to reunify and privatize railway operations on the Abidjan-
Ouagadougou-Kaya axis, through a concession agreement to be signed with a private operator.
A commission comprising representatives of the Privatization Commissions of CMte d'Ivoire
and Burkina, the two ministries of transport, and of SICF and SCFB was set up to launch the
process.



-4-
1.15 The process has been strongly supported by IDA both through the CMte d'Ivoire
Privatization Support Project and the Burkina Transport Sector Adjustment Program. Advice
and comments provided by IDA and co-donors' staff at the various stages of the process were
substantially taken into account and significantly improved the design of the concession. Bids
were launched in February 1993 and bid award (to a consortium led by major freight-
forwarders operating in Western Africa) was made in July 1993. But it took seven negotiating
sessions over a one-and-a-half year period before a Concession Agreement acceptable to all
partners was signed on December 12, 1994. (A summary presentation of the concessionary
company, SITARAIL is in ANNEX 1.1). The Concession Agreement became effective on
August 20, 1995, and the Concessionaire took over operation of the railways on August 21,
1995. By that time, SCFB and SICF had been put into liquidation, and two new "patrimony
corporations", Socite' Ivoirienne de Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire (SIPF) and SociNd de
Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire BurAina (SOPAFER), had been created to hold the property
of existing railway equipment and manage rail infrastructure on behalf of the two States.
1.16   The main features of the Concession Agreement are as follows: the concession is a
"rolling concession" covering 15 years initially, with successive five-year extensions possible
thereafter. The concessionaire (SITARAIL) operates commercial freight and passenger
services in a fully-deregulated environment. SITARAIL is responsible for the maintenance of
rail infrastructure and of leased motive power and rolling stock, the ownership of which
remains with the two "patrimony corporations", SIPF and SOPAFER. The Concessionaire has
rehired the personnel required (1,815) from among existing railway staff (3,470, of which
some 1,370 in SCFB and some 2,100 in SICF). The Governments have provided severance
payments to surplus staff not rehired by the private operator. Rehabilitation investments are
proposed by the concessionaire. The two patrimony corporations handle borrowing on behalf
of the two Governments who, although responsible for servicing the debt related to both
infrastructure renewal and upgrading, and to equipment rehabilitation and acquisition, will
recover these debt service payments fully from the concessionaire. The concession fee paid by
the concessionaire to the Governments comprises: (i) an infrastructure user fee calculated as a
percentage of the concessionaire's revenue; (ii) equipment lease payments, the calculation of
which is defined in the Concession Agreement; and (iii) debt service coverage on the railway
rehabilitation investments. Third-party rail service operators can be authorized after a 7-year
exclusivity period.
1.17. The two patrimony corporations, SOPAFER and SIPF, are public sector companies
charged with the administration of the railways' property on behalf of the two Governments.
An agreement for the management of railway assets between the Ivorian Government and SIPF
has been signed as a condition of presentation of the proposed Credit to the Board; publication
of the Decree approving the agreement is a condition of credit effectiveness.
D.   Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Projects and Rationale for IDA
Involvement
1.18   IDA's involvement in the railway subsector dates back to 1978, when a Regional
Railway Project (Ln. 1490-IVC/Cr. 744-UV) was approved that included improvement of
track, renewal of rolling stock, and technical assistance and training for management and
operations improvement of RAN. Its implementation took three years longer than foreseen,
and railway performance deteriorated markedly over the project implementation period. In the
absence of credible reform actions, a proposed follow-on rehabilitation program was not
pursued (cf. para. 1.12 above). In the road subsector, where the Bank provided eight loans



-5-
between 1968 and 1985 for a total of US$333 million, including two Highway Sector loans of
US$100 and US$110 million respectively, performance was somewhat better. But since the
early  1990s, unwillingness to address the multiple problems of   proper investment
programming, maintenance funding and efficient works execution has made it difficult to
justify continued IDA involvement in the sector. Thus, the project is the first IDA operation
in Cote d'lvoire's transport sector since the Second Highway Sector Loan, which was
approved in 1985 and closed in 1990, ending a ten-year hiatus that has been due to slow
progress on sectoral reforms needed to make proposed investments sustainable.
1 .19 The rationale for proceeding with the project is that substantial reforms, fully
consistent with IDA's country assistance strategy, have been decided on, and are being
implemented, in the railway subsector (cf. paras. 1.14-1.15 above). Acceptable institutional
arrangements, necessary for re-establishing competitive and efficient rail services in the
Abidjan-Ouagadougou corridor, have been agreed upon by the two Governments and formally
spelled out in the Concession Agreement (para. 1.16 above) that was signed with a private
operator in December 1994, the first such arrangement in Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.20   IDA  had been promoting reform  and rehabilitation of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
railway for well over a decade, since it can have a demonstrable competitive advantage over
road transport for certain types of traffic and can therefore play an important role in making
the economies of both Burkina and of Cote d'lvoire more efficient. In the absence of the
necessary restructuring and reform actions, earlier proposed projects were abandoned. But
within the framework of the Concession Agreement, both the Burkina and the Cote d'Ivoire
Governments have now agreed to the essential preconditions for efficient railway operations in
a manner satisfactory to IDA and co-donors. The project is a major element for promoting the
success of the concessioning of rail activities to the private sector in Cote d'lvoire and
Burkina. This new arrangement for the operation of rail transport services fits very well with
one of the main objectives of IDA's assistance strategy for both countries: Governments'
disengagement from a major economic activity, which will henceforth be carried out by the
private sector. Operating deficits of the two railway companies SICF and SCFB, which were
borne by Government budgets, will be eliminated. More efficient rail services for freight
transport will improve the competitiveness of the economies of both Cote d'Ivoire and
Burkina.  In addition, regional integration between Cote d'Ivoire and Burkina will be
significantly strengthened.






-6-
CHAPTER II. THE PROJECT
A.    Program and Project Objectives
2.1    The proposed project is part of a larger program for the overall rehabilitation of the
full Abidjan/Ouagadougou/Kaya railways, covered by the Concession Agreement. The project
covers the Ivorian component of the program; the Burkina part of the program, which has been
appraised concurrently, is also fully financed (see para. 2.7 below). To reflect the fact that
project justification intimately depends on the justification of the overall program, reference
will be made in the following to either (or both) program and project objectives and
characteristics, as appropriate. The main program and project objectives are to contribute to
the revitalization of a major transport service promoting competitiveness and regional
integration, by providing the financing necessary to carry out the long overdue rehabilitation of
the publicly-owned railway infrastructure and equipment assets. These will be managed and
operated by the private concessionaire, who needs the rehabilitation investments to enable it to
provide efficient quality service.
B.    Program and Project Description
2.2    The proposed rehabilitation program is the first in support of a railway to be operated
by a private concessionaire in Sub-Saharan Africa. As indicated above, the program will have
two parts:
* one in Cote d'lvoire, for the rehabilitation of railway equipment (motive power and
rolling stock) owned by SIPF, and of railway infrastructure situated on Ivorian territory,
for which financing will be channeled through SIPF, under the project, and
* one in Burkina, for the rehabilitation of railway equipment (motive power and rolling
stock) owned by SOPAFER, and of railway infrastructure situated on the Burkinabe
territory, for which financing will be channeled through SOPAFER, under similar
arrangements.
2.3    The main components of the program and their estimated base costs are as follows:
(I) Infrastructure rehabilitation is estimated at US$29.9 million. It covers: (i) selective
track renewal (75 km) and repair (41 km of sleepers and 66 km of rail replacement); (ii)
ballasting ( 111 ,000 m3); (iii) bridge and culvert repairs; (iv) embankment repairs; (v)
installation of weighing equipment; and (vi) some building repairs (workshops, stations). (II)
Equipment rehabilitation and acquisition under the program is estimated at US$42.4 million
overall. The motive powver and rolling stock rehabilitation component accounts for about
US$30.8 million and covers:  (i) the general overhaul or rehabilitation of 20 main-line
locomotives; (ii) rehabilitation of 17 shunting locomotives; (iii) rehabilitation of 375 freight
cars (out of a total of 600 leased by the Concessionaire); (iv) rehabilitation of 40 passenger
coaches; and (v) establishment of a stock of essential spare parts. The maintenance equipment
component, accounting for US$9.0 million, includes: (i) the rehabilitation and acquisition of
essential track maintenance equipment and tools; and (ii) rehabilitation of maintenance
facilities. A small telecommunication component accounts for US$1.8 million and covers: (i)
the rehabilitation and improvement of the train-to-ground radio system; (ii) the installation of a
radio block operating system; (iii) the replacement of PABX in the four major activities centers
(Abidjan-Bouake-Bobo Dioulasso-Ouagadougou) and five medium size stations; and (iv)
miscellaneous small repairs, acquisition of maintenance vehicles and establishment of a stock
of essential spare parts. A last component is related to the acquisition of computers (US$0.8



-7-
million) for providing the operation with modern management tools. Finally, for (111) Works
supervision and training, some US$2.5 million are foreseen.
2.4     The Cote d'lvoire project accounts for some 59 percent of the base cost of both the
infrastructure rehabilitation component (US$17.7 million) and the equipment
rehabilitation and acquisition component (US$24.9 million). Within this latter component,
the project covers 60 percent (US$18.4 million) of the rehabilitation of motive power and
rolling stock, 53 percent (US$4.8 million) of the maintenance equipment subcomponent, 67
percent (US$1.2 million) of the telecommunication equipment and 63 percent (US$0.5 million)
of the computer equipment. Finally, the project covers 48 percent (US$1.2 million) of the
works supervision and training component. The specific project items financed by IDA are
detailed in ANNEX 2.1 and in para 3.4 below.
C.      Program  and Project Cost
2.5    Initial detailed cost estimates prepared by the private operator SITARAIL  were
reviewed and updated during appraisal. The total cost of the program including physical and
price contingencies, but excluding local import duties and taxes, is estimated at CFA franc
40.5 billion (some US$81.0 million equivalent), of which the proposed project represents 24.0
billion (US$48.0 million equivalent). Base costs are in mid-1995 prices; the project will be
executed over a four year period, with most of the expenditures incurred during the first two
years (about 85 percent). Detailed program and project costs and the shares expected to be
financed by the co-financiers are in ANNEX 2. 1. Physical contingencies are estimated at 4.7
percent of base cost. Price contingencies, estimated at 3.6 percent, are based on the following
annual inflation rates (in accordance with O.P.6.50 for the foreign exchange component and on
country data for local currency):
Table 2.1:      Annual Inflation Rates (%)
Foreign Exchange                      1.5     1.8     2.6     2.5
Local Currency (COte d'Ivoire)        8.0     3.5     3.0     3.
Local Currency (Burkina)              6.0     4.0     3.5     3.5
2.6     Program and project costs are summarized in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2:      Summary Program  and Project Costs
(US$ million)
*  1k~~~t~ign)..:   Totn .... . ..
Infrastructure                         9.6        8.1      17.7          9.0       3.2         12.2      29.9
Equipment                              1.7       23.2     24.9           2.1      15.4         17.5      42.4
Motive power & Rolling Stock         1.5       16.9     18.4           1.8      10.6         12.4      30.8
Maintenance Equipment                           4.8      4.8           0.1       4.1          4.2       9.0
Telecommunication Equipment          0.2        1.0      1.2           0.2       0.4          0.6       1.8
Computer Equipment                   -          0.5      0.5           -         0.3          0.3       0.8
Works Spn.+Training (T. A.)            0.1       1.1       1.2           0.1       1.2          1.3       2.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        11.4       32.4     43.8          11.2      19.8         31.0      74.8
Physical Contingencies                 0.5        2.0      2.5           0.3       0.7          1.0       3.5
Price Con  eaencies                    1.1                 1.7           0.7       0.3          1.0       2.7
TOTAL PROGRAM & PROJECT COST            13.0       35.0     48.0          12.2      20.8         33.0      81.0



-8-
D.    Program and Project Financing
2.7    The program  is co-financed by Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD), the
European Investment Bank (EIB), the West African Development Bank (BOAD) and the
Belgian Government (AGCD). Cofinanciers will finance around US$43.8 million equivalent
under parallel co-financing arrangements with US$23.0 million going to the Burkina part of
the program and US$20.8 million going to the C6te d'lvoire part. IDA will finance US$26.4
million equivalent with US$6.4 million for the Burkina part and US$20 million for the CMte
d'lvoire part. The IDA portion of the C6te d'lvoire part of the program is financed by the
project.  IDA funds will he onlent to the patrimony corporation SIPF under a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement: 7.8 percent of interest per annum for 15 years including 3 years grace
period, the foreign exchange risk being borne by the ivorian government, for the motive
power, rolling stock, telecommunication and computer components, and at grant terms for
infrastructure rehabilitation and consultant services. The signature of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The IDA portion of the Burkina part of
the program will be financed through a partial reallocation of funds already available under the
Transport Sector Adjustment/investment Credit (Cr. 2332 BUR); the respective amendment
has been made following appraisal and finalization of the co-financing arrangements, and a
Subsidiary Financing Agreement will be entered into between the Government of Burkina and
the patrimony corporation SOPAFER, to whom the IDA funds will be onlent at the same terms
and conditions as those applied in onlending to SIPF. The concessionaire's contribution to the
program amounts to some US$10.8 million equivalent and will cover part of the local cost of
civil works (labor, transport, insurance, etc.). Financing arrangements are summarized in
Table 2.3 below; detailed items financed by each donor are in ANNEX 2.1. Compliance with
conditions precedent to the first disbursement on the loans contracted with CFD and EIB will
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Table 2.3:    Summary Program and Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
--. :. -. :. . .   . . .   :1 . o   -i.. ....E -, 
. . . ~ ~ . . . . .   . . .   . . . . . . . .--: 
CO-FIAN IR.$  Loa6Prigln  [T6             a     _______
IDA                   1.5      18.5    20.0        0.9      5.5      6.4      26.4
CFD                  0.5        8.9      9.4       2.7      11.7    14.4      23.8
EIB                  1.4       4.8      6.2        5.0      2.6      7.6      13.8
BOAD                4_ 24       1.8      4.2              _         _          4.2
AGCD                 _          1.0      1.0     _      _            i_ _.0    2.0
SITARAIL             7.2         _____7.2          3.6    _          3.6      10.8
TOTAL               13.0      35.0     48.0       12.2     20.8    33.0       81.0
2.8    Reimbursement of all credit funds, while the responsibility of the Government of Cote
d'lvoire and SIPF, will be fully recovered from  SITARAIL through its payment of the
dedicated part of the concession fee (see para. 1.15 above) to SIPF (and SOPAFER, for the
Burkina portion of the program). These payments would be made into a separate account to be
opened in the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA).  Financing of rehabilitation
investments through the Government-owned patrimony corporations with debt service
payments made by the Concessionaire is considered an acceptable arrangement, as the private
sector is not willing, in thie prevailing context, to take all investment risks.






-9-
CHAPTER III.
PROGRAM AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation Arrangements
3.1    The program and the project will be implemented over a four year period by the
Concessionaire SITARAIL (acting as a 'maitre doeuvre d&lIgue") on behalf of the two
patrimony corporations SIPF and SOPAFER. The respective responsibilities of SITARAIL
and SIPF are set out in the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement, signature of which by SIPF
and SITARAIL is a condition of credit effectiveness. The bulk of the rehabilitation will be
done within the first two years of the program. SITARAIL has a financial interest in executing
the rehabilitation program rapidly and thoroughly; it has put a technically (including
procurement expertise)  and commercially competent management team  in charge of a
streamlined staff selected from among that of the existing railway companies, and should be
rapidly in position to improve operations.
B.    Status of Project Preparation
3.2    Since privatization of rail service provision is fully consistent with IDA's country
assistance strategy, and since its modalities have been discussed by both Governments with
IDA and the co-donors over a three-year period, as they were being agreed with the
Concessionaire within the framework of a formal Concession Agreement acceptable to IDA
and co-financiers, there are no major outstanding project issues. Rules for review by the
patrimony corporations (SIPF and SOPAFER) of procurement decisions prepared by
SITARAIL have been prepared in accordance with IDA Guidelines (see para. 3.3 ff. below)
and will be processed in such a way that most contracts can be signed shortly after credit
effectiveness. The two Governments have compensated redundant staff.
C.    Procurement
3.3    The following table summarizes expected distribution of project costs by procurement
method and category of expenditure.   For the IDA-financed portion of the project,
procurement will be carried out in accordance with IDA Guidelines (January 1995). Standard
bidding documents for most of the items to be procured under ICB and LIB procedures have
already been prepared and will be cleared by IDA prior to credit signing. (This also applies to
the Burkina part of the program).
Table 3.1: Project Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million, IDA financed part in parentheses)
Works                                       -            -          -      10.2      10.2
Goods and         10.4    1.0      1.3      1.5         5.3         -      15.5      35.0
installation     (10.4)  (1.0)    (1.3)    (1.5)        (5.3)      (-)      (-)     (19.5)
Consulting         -      -        -        -            -          0.5     2.3       2.8
|Servrices        (-      (-      (-    I-              (-)0         (0.5)    (-     (0.5)
TOTAL             10.4    1.0      1.3      1.5         5.3         0.5    28.0      48.0
(10.4)   (1.0)    (1.3)   (1.5)       (5.3)       (0.5)    (-)    (20.0)
* Not IDA-financed; procurement procedures of co-financiers will apply



-10-
3.4   Items financed by IDA cover the following: (i) for infrastructure rehabilitation and
maintenance (track maintenance, repairs and upgrade) US$9.6 million, of which for: (a)
ballast (US$1.3 million); (b) rail (US$3.9 million), sleepers (US$2.4 million) and rail welding
supplies (US$0.7 million); (c) rail fastenings (US$1.3 million); (ii) for equipment
rehabilitation and maintenance US$10.4 million, of which for motive power and rolling stock:
(a) main-line locomotive spare parts (US$4.3 million) and sub-components (US$3.4 million);
(b) maintenance tools and machinery (US$1.7 million); (iii) for improvement of the
telecommunication systems: (a) telecommunication spare parts and maintenance equipment
(US$0.2 million); (b) maintenance vehicles (US$0.3 million); (c) installation of a radio-token
block system (US$0.5 million).
3.5   International Competitive Bidding.  The following items will be purchased through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB):
* part of the reconstruction of electric traction motors of main line locomotives
(US$0.5 million)
* part of the main line locomotive spare parts and sub-components (US$1.3 million);
* part of the maintenance tools and machinery (US$1.3 million);
* the totality of rail, sleepers and rail welding supplies, and part of rail fastenings
(US$7.3 million).
For sleepers, separate bids will be launched for steel and concrete sleepers.
3.6    Limited International Bidding.  Limited International Bidding (LIB) will be used for
the acquisition of part of rail fastenings of a specialized (Pandrol-type) nature (US$1.0
million). Potential suppliers are all suppliers which hold the license for the manufacture of the
selected type of fastenings.
3.7    National Competitive Bidding. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for
the acquisition of ballast (US$1.3 million). In view of the nature and the volume of the goods,
foreign bidders are unlikely to be interested in bidding.
3.8    Shopping.  International (US$750,000) and national (US$750,000) shopping will be
used for the acquisition of:
* part of the main line locomotive spare parts (US$0.5 million in aggregate, each
contract not to exceed US$50,000); these parts are low-cost, miscellaneous spares
needed for locomotive rehabilitation which cannot be identified in detail during
preparation of rehabilitation programs;
* part of the maintenance tools (US$0.5 million in aggregate, each contract not to
exceed US$50,000);
* telecommunication spare parts and maintenance equipment, including micro-
computers and other proprietary office technology equipment associated with the
installation of the radio-token block system (US$0.2 million in aggregate); and
* maintenance vehicles (US$0.3 million).
3.9    Direct Contracting. Direct contracting will be used for (i) part of the acquisition of
proprietary main-line locomotive parts and sub-components from the original equipment
manufacturer (US$4.8 million), and (ii) emergency repair of electric traction motors for
locomotives, which it has been determined to be feasible in a local workshop at a competitive
cost (US$0.5 million).



-1 1-
3.10   Consulting services.  Procedures defined in Bank Group guidelines for the use of
consultants will be used for the design and installation of a radio-token block system (US$0.5
million).
3.11   Procurement Review. Procurement done under ICB, LIB, NCB and Direct Contracting
for contracts exceeding US$100,000, as well as procurement of contracts for consulting
services, will be subject to prior review by IDA.  Prior review will be carried out in
accordance with IDA guidelines. At negotiations, standard procurement processing times for
key activities have been agreed with the Borrower.
D.    Disbursement
3.12   Disbursement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2 below. Disbursements for
goods costing less than US$100,000 and of consultant services costing less than US$100,000
for firms and US$50,000 for individuals will be made against statements of expenditures
(SOEs); documentation of SOEs will be retained by SITARAIL and will be made available for
review by IDA supervision missions and auditors. Other disbursements will be made against
standard documentation prepared by the SITARAIL and approved by the patrimony
corporation. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be set up in the CAA and
SITARAIL will operate a "Project Account" at the CAA to be fed from the Special Account;
the initial deposit would be in CFA franc equivalent to US$500,000. This amount is estimated
to cover project expenditures for about four months, excluding expenditures for imports of
goods to be covered by letters of credit and guaranteed by IDA's special commitment. The
Special Account will be replenished by submitting withdrawal applications to IDA on a
monthly basis or sooner, when the accounts are diminished by one-third.
Table 3.2:    Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ million)
;...`   '.A.'M!I
1. Railway and telecommunication equip-       9.1        100 FE, 100 EF, 95
ment, spares, subcomponents and their                    LE
installation
2. Truck materials and equipment, other       8.9        100 FE, 100 EF, 95
equipment and vehicles                                   LE
3. Service contract                           0.4        100
4. Unallocated                                1.6
TOTAL                          20.0
Note: FE = Foreign Exchange, EF = ex factory, LE = Local Expenditure
3.13   The IDA credit of US$20 million is expected to be effective by November 15, 1995,
and the project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999. The bulk of the funds are
expected to be disbursed over the first 30 months of project execution as shown below:
Table 3.3:    Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
Il..#iSiF                            ......! '.....m'0 5
Annual             10.2         6.8           1.9    |     1.1    l
Cumulative         10.2        17.0         18.9         20.0



-12-
E.    Auditing and Accounting
3.14   SITARAIL will manage all accounting records and will prepare supporting documents.
Annual audits will be carried out by auditors acceptable to IDA on the project and program
accounts; the audited accounts together with a management letter will be forwarded to IDA and
the other donor agencies within six months of the close of each fiscal year. The auditors'
report on project and program expenditures will verify that: (i) accounts permit identification
of all receipts and payments; (ii) goods have been received and works performed; (iii)
payments have been made; (iv) all expenditures have been legitimate; and (v) the special
account has been used appropriately. Selection of the Program Auditor is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.15   SIPF will provide an audited opening balance sheet not later than March 1, 1996.
Subsequently, the company will be audited annually by the program auditor during project
execution.
F.    Monitoring and Reporting
3.16   As foreseen under the Concession Agreement, a Monitoring Committee (Comite de
Suivi) set up by the conceding parties will supervise project implementation and SITARAIL
operations in accordance with agreed procedures. These procedures, together with those for
procurement set out in the Concession Agreement, and with a series of performance indicators
to be monitored quarterly and annually during project execution are included in a Project
Implementation Manual, a summary outline of which is presented in ANNEX 3.1. The
Project Implementation Manual was discussed during negotiations; its adoption by the
Concessionaire and the patrimony corporation is a condition of credit effectiveness. A mid-
term review will be held not later than November 30, 1997.



-13-
CHAPTER IV.
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Traffic Projections
4.1    Freight Traffic.  The present (1994) volume of freight transported by the railway
(about 300,000 tons) is the lowest recorded since the start-up of railway activities. The main
reasons for this are: (i) poor equipment availability due to prolonged lack of maintenance and
degradation of infrastructure; (ii) poor commercial policy and client service due to
management and coordination problems between SICF and SCFB; and (iii) competition from
more reliable road transport.   Of the total volume transported, two-thirds represent
international traffic. Imports through/from Cote d'Ivoire to Burkina, account for 85 percent of
this, mainly petroleum products, containers, cement, grains, and fertilizers; the remaining 15
percent represent Burkina exports, mainly cotton, cattle and other agricultural products.
National traffic accounts for only one third of total traffic and is concentrated in C6te d'lvoire.
It mainly concerns petroleum products transported from Abidjan to Bouake (80,000/100,000
tons in 1994).
4.2   In the first year of activity of the Concessionaire, traffic volume is expected to increase
from 240 TKm million (292,000 tons) to 370 TKm million (504,000 tons). This would be due
to the railways' attracting back a significant part of long distance bulk traffic for which it has a
clear advantage over road transport, and is estimated to lead to: (i) an increase of about 10
percent in the international traffic and of some 135 percent in national traffic.  Increased
volumes of petroleum products, for which rail has an advantage over road transport both in
terms of cost and safety; would account for the bulk of this; (ii) the emergence of important
new traffic (clinker and manganese): estimates of clinker traffic (some 50,000 tons) are based
on production capacity of the cement factory located in Ouagadougou which has started
operations in early 1995. Manganese exports are estimated at a modest 20,000 tons annually,
projected for sale in small niche markets. Since the cost of transporting these commodities by
rail are lower than those for road transport, and since the customers for this service are among
the shareholders of SITARAIL, the shift back of this traffic to rail should be quite rapid.
4.3    Traffic projections in subsequent years, when the re-established production capacity is
expected to be used to the full under improved railway management, the Concessionaire will
be able to gain back markets from road transport in which rail is more competitive. By the
year 2000, freight traffic is estimated at 560 Tkm; details for each category of freight are in
ANNEX 4.1. The graphic below summarizes actual and projected freight data for the 1980-
1995-2001 period.



-14-
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FREIGHT TRAFFIC
r,o    .:;    00
E o O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ;.;-;......                     .;.....
I  F   o.o  - ..'.,   .',,..t,'''...... ..... ......   .... ..... ...........'''.'''"'.  " " ,"................... '"''l"   ''
.       . .    ...               r  -..:-..                          .....     -.......d.......-
o   -   + _   r  + ^. +    .   .   -   -.    :  :   -  -   -   g  r  s  P  F~~~~~~~~. .......  .....
1998 1981 19C2 993 91499 1915I6 199 19U 198S 1990 1991 1992 19 1999 1999 19* 99I 199 1999 nan 298
lInternational -  -----Nationlal                New traffic '        TOTAL|
4.4    Passenger Traffic.  Present (1994) rail passenger traffic consists of some 750,000
international and national passengers (250 PKm million). Although rail passenger transport is
economically justified for long distance traffic only, SCFB and SICF have been operating short
distance domestic traffic for cash generation, charging tariffs that do not cover the cost of the
services provided to beat road transport competition.
4.5         Traffic projections in the first two years of activity of the Concessionaire assume a
reduction of passenger traffic due to: (i) a 25 percent increase in tariffs to achieve cost
recovery; and (ii) the abandonment of unprofitable domestic services. In subsequent years
traffic volumes are expected to increase by 25 percent annually on average, in response to
improvements in the quality of service. By the year 2001, one million passengers (374 PKm
million) would be transported, corresponding to half the mid-80s' international passenger
traffic volume. The graphic below summarizes actual and projected passenger traffic volumes
for the period 1980-1995-2001.
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED PASSENGER TRAFFIC
y,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .                       ... ,.K.........i....... 0t:t    Iy 
,..Ne \00 .'1; k0000 
; ,g.: . .   :  -.:.-.:.-. . . .               . . . . ..:.-.E.-:,'
o1                 ..:.I.   ...:   .. .17:   :-: :1:1  : :    :    ::1 : .  -1    :1  .   .. ...
B.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ecoomi Evauaio.o.te.rora
4.6    Bet T           nra                   ntt                  v e               afd rh co
analysis              .. (i)  .. transport   . .....
rail  has*                  ...
. .      . . . . ..         . . .
0 0  . . . . .  . . .   . . .. . . . . . . .   . . . .
o.      . . . . . . . .   . .         . . . . . .  .
..      . . . .     . . . . . .   . . . . . . .   . . . . .
0 0   4..             . . . . .. . . .. . . .
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~...........   ..    .......
.      .    .  . .   .  . .   .
84)   1911   1982    993   19* ..   ........   ......    ....19  99  9  9  94    93 9   93 19 99 lD 3
...   .. .. ..   .     .. ... .   ...   . ... .  . . e.. r..
B.  Economic  Evaluation...........      of.....the......Program.........
4.6  Benefits.    The  main  program ..benefits.  that.have..been..ua.tified..for.the.economic
analysis  are:   (i) reduced......... transport..........costs .... onln.itnc.ukadcotie.rffc    o                                hc
rail  has  an   economic   advantage... ..      over.oad..anspot;.ad.....provsion of.cot-effctiv



-15-
transport for new mining exports (manganese, zinc) expected with the development of the
mining sector in Burkina. Important additional benefits include: avoiding liquidation pure and
simple of SICF and SCFB, thereby preserving an important infrastructural asset, turning rail
transport from a heavily subsidized activity into a commercially profitable one; anll
contributing to improved regional integration through more efficient handling of internationIai
traffic; these benefits have not been quantified.
4.7    Results of the Economic Analysis. The most likely Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of
the program, based on the quantified benefits (transport cost savings) only, is estimated at 23
percent. Savings from transport of petroleum products are by far the most important and
account for 61 percent of the total savings: rail transport costs are one-third those of estimated
road transport costs, and savings on this traffic alone would result in a 10 percent ERR for the
program. Savings from transport of clinker, expected to represent a sizable volume of new
traffic, represent some 15 percent of total savings. Also important are savings on the transport
of containers and cement (10 and 5 percent of total savings respectively).  International
passenger traffic accounts for no more than 3 percent of total transport cost savings.
4.8     Sensitivity Analysis. To test the robustness of the analysis, a number of alternative
scenarios and their impact on the ERR of the program were examined; the results are
summarized in Table 4.1 below. Even under very pessimistic assumptions (traffic volume of
only 75 percent of most likely levels combined with an increase in program cost of 25 percent
compared to base case assumptions, Scenario F3; or traffic volume of only 75 percent of most
likely levels and a two-year delay in the materialization of projected traffic, Scenario F4), the
program would still have an ERR of 10 percent. Charts showing the sensitivity of the analysis
to variations in the main parameters taken into account are in ANNEX 4.2; costs used in the
base cost-benefit analysis are summarized in para. 4.9 below and presented in ANNEX 4.3;
details of the long run marginal cost calculations are in the Project File.
Table 4.1:    Results of the Economic Analysis: Base Case and Sensitivity Tests
-tem .-- _pi ..                              ..
A         The base case                           23       20% reduction in rail costs in
with program case
Bl        Projected traffic incr. delayed by two   16
years
B2        75% of base case traffic projections     15                  ll
B3        Savings from  new  traffic (clinker,    17                   ll
manganese) excluded
B4        Savings from passenger traffic excluded  20                  ll
C         Costs increased by 25%                   16                  ll
D         Benefits reduced by 25%                  15                  /1
E         Savings from traffic attracted back from  20     Cost reductions on existing rail
road transport only                             traffic omitted
Fl        B3 & B4                                  15
F2        B2 & E                                   13
F3        B2 & C                                   10
F4        B1 &iB2                                  10
4.9    Assumptions for the Economic Analysis. The economic analysis compares estimated
traffic volumes and long-run marginal costs of rail transport 'with" and "without the
program". The main assumptions for the cost-benefit analysis are as follows:



-16-
* 'With the Program", freight and international passenger traffic is expected to
increase as described in section A above; national passenger traffic is expected to
be discontinued because of its financial unprofitability.
* "Without the Program", all freight traffic and international passenger traffic is
expected to continue their long-term decline, falling to zero at the end of three
years, when the SICF and SCFB would have exhausted their remaining operational
capacity and collapsed.  National passenger traffic would be maintained at its
current level and come to a stop at the end of year three.
* Long-run marginal costs of rail transport include: (i) operating costs (fuel and
lubricants, operating crew costs); (ii) equipment maintenance costs (manpower and
spare parts); (iii) depreciation and interest on motive power and rolling stock; and
(iv) infrastructure maintenance costs. These are based on consultants' and mission
estimates for the "with the Program" case; "without the Program" unit costs,
reflecting present run-down conditions, overstaffing and poor coordination between
two national companies, are very conservatively estimated at 125 percent of the
"with Program" costs.
*  Road transport costs for both the 'with" and "without the Program" cases are
based on 1995 vehicle operating costs excluding taxes, estimated by DCGTx.
These include depreciation and interest on equipment, but exclude infrastructure
maintenance costs, for which road users pay through user charges such as taxes on
fuel, spare parts etc.
The economic evaluation of the program is in mid-1995 prices (US$1 =CFA franc 500), for all
costs and benefits net of taxes. Total investment costs under the program were taken into
account, no shadow prices were applied.
C.    Financial Evaluation
4. 10 Financial Performance of SICF and RAN. When RAN, the railway jointly owned by
Cote d'lvoire and Burkina, was dissolved in 1989 and separated into the two successor
companies SICF and SCFB, its cumulative deficit exceeded CFA franc 50 billion and its total
debt stood at about CFA franc 100 billion (although it was also owed some CFA franc 68.7
billion, of which CFA franc 26 billion by the Ivorian Government and CFA franc 41.6 billion
by the Burkinabe Government). At separation, the Government of Cote d'Ivoire received
assets totaling CFA franc 84.7 billion and assumed CFA franc 56.3 billion in RAN debts. In
addition, SICF was to receive CFA franc 3 billion in fresh capital. But this was never
released, thus condemning SICF to survive exclusively on the revenues it generated. These
were barely sufficient to cover the wagebill for the company's 2000+ employees, the cost of
fuel and lubricants to keep (increasingly fewer) trains operating, and the most urgently needed
spare parts. Taxes and social security contributions were left unpaid; these constitute the bulk
of SICF cumulative debts of some CFA franc 9.2 billion in 1995. Table 4.2 shows a few
indicators of the disastrous evolution of the railway companies' finances over the past 10
years; summary SICF income statements for the 1989/90-1993 period are in ANNEX 4.4.



-17-
Table 4.2: Selected RAN-SICF Financial Indicators
.. . .. ..... . ~~~t                  .7A:....i......
09  _____  ~~~~~~~~~~~........0.. WAAI  rie
Main Operating revenues (CFAF bio)    18.5         5.6             11.3
Freight traffic revenues             9.1        n.a.              9.6(")
Passenger traffic revenues           9.4        n.a.              1.7
Main Working expenses (CFAF bio)       16.0        6.5              8.6
Salaries                             10.7       4.7              5.5
Materials                             5.3       1.8              3.1
(*) before devaluation of the CFAF
(**) including new traffic
4.11   Financial Equilibrium. SITARAIL funds come from: (i) equity capital of CFA franc 5
billion; (ii) financing of rehabilitation program investments (with the bulk of disbursement
expected during the first three years of operation); and (iii) operating revenues. Operation by
the Concessionaire is expected to have two main effects on the railways' activity: increased
revenues due to increases in both tariffs and traffic (better marketing to re-attract existing
traffic and emergence of new traffic as described in Section 4.A above), and normalization of
operational expenditures, i.e. decreased expenses due mainly to reductions in personnel costs
of about 50 percent, and to tighter control of overhead expenses (20 percent less than those of
SICF and SCFB). In combination, these expected developments are estimated to make a
previously high deficit activity commercially viable and potentially profitable, thus relieving
the two Governments of substantial subsidy payment requirements.
Table 4.3:    Financial Projections for SITARAIL
Freight Traffic (TKm million)            288     299      315      333      350      369
New Traffic (TKm million)                 83      132     152      162      183      186
Passengers Traffic (PKm million)         125      167     214      265      323      366
Staff Number (N)                       1,815    1,815    1,815    1,815    1,815    1,815
Productivity ( 000 traffic units/        273     329      375      419      471      507
employee)
Operating Revenues (CFAF million)     11,267   13,034   14,484   15,882   17,495   18,682
Working Expenses (CFAF million)       10,916   11,044   11,591   11,892   14,407   12,212
Operating Result (CFAF million)          352    1,990    2,894    3,990    3,088    6,470
Net Operating Result (CFAF million)   (1,221)   (193)    (11)   (188)       755    1271
Net Income (Loss) (CFAF million)     (1,571)   (543)   (361)   (488)        455      971
Working Ratio                           97%      85%      80%     75%      82%      65?!
Operating Ratio                        111%    101%    100%    101%        96%      930/
Current Ratio                           6.95     8.18     8.37    8.37     5.91     8.33
Quick Ratio                             5.43     5.98     5.82    5.72     3.31     5.54
NOTE: all CFAF amounts in constant 1995 prices



-18-
4.12   Financial Perfornance. Financial estimates based on base case traffic projections (but
with slightly lower assumptions for cement/clinker traffic), and on tariff levels projected by the
Concessionaire, have been established for the initial 15-year concession period. Projected
financial performance of the Concessionaire for the 1995-2000 period, is summarized in Table
4.3 above. Detailed 1995-2010 projections for Income Statements, Balance Sheets and Ratio
Analysis, and for Sources and Application of Funds are presented in ANNEX 4.5.
4.13   According to these projections, the Concessionaire would achieve a positive operating
result starting in the fifth year of activity. Net income is estimated to remain negative for the
first four years of the concession, due mainly to very substantial amounts allocated for
engineering consultancy during this period, when rehabilitation investments are being
implemented. Expected cumulative losses of about CFA franc 3 billion would be covered by
the CFA franc 5 billion of equity capital. In subsequent years, net income is expected to
improve and would reach some CFA franc 4 billion in year 15 of the concession period.
4.14   Assumptions underlying the financial projections.   The assumptions for traffic
forecasts, tariffs, staff and personnel costs, maintenance costs, and for fuel and lubricant
consumption used in the financial projections are as follows:
 the base case scenarios for freight and passenger traffic set out in Section 4.A
above have been used for financial projections, except that somewhat lower
volumes of cement/clinker traffic have been assumed;
  tariff levels are those that the Concessionaire plans to implement:  while not
uniformly so, they represent an average increase of about 25 percent for both
freight and passenger traffic over present tariffs, which had been increased by 35
percent for freight and 25 percent for passenger transport following devaluation.
The new tariff structure covers estimated operating costs and is based on market
conditions for the long distance transport of bulk goods;
* the Concessionaire will operate with a staff of 1,815 employees;
* rolling stock and motive power maintenance costs have been evaluated on the basis
of a normalized average unit cost per engine in the fleet. At the beginning of the
concession period, these costs are relatively low due to implementation of the
externally financed rehabilitation program. Subsequently, a periodic overhaul of
locomotives every five years has been planned:  the corresponding costs are
covered through an annual provision;
* the costs of infrastructure maintenance works are calculated on the basis of annual
gross ton kilometers transported; again, due to the execution of externally financed
rehabilitation works, they are low during the first years of operations;
* costs of fuel and lubricant consumption is considered as proportional to annual
train kilometers (with 25 percent estimated to be incurred in Burkina and 75
percent in Cote d'lvoire).
4.15   Operating revenues are expected to increase sharply from the first year of activity,
thanks to a marketing and commercial policy which would target specific increases in traffic
volumes through implementation of a competitive tariff policy. However, compared to historic



-19-
revenue levels in the early 80s, anticipated revenues remain modest. Traditional freight traffic
provides the main share of revenues (about 70 percent), passenger traffic accounts for 10
percent of revenues, and the remaining 20 percent are from new freight traffic.
4.16   Operating expenses are still dominated by personnel costs, which represent about 50
percent in the first year of operations and decrease to 37 percent of operating expenses after
five years. This reflects an assumption of virtually constant staff costs with rising traffic
volumes over the concession period. Other important operating expenses are for materials
(fuel expenses and maintenance costs); they vary as a function of traffic volume and represent
about 30 percent of working expenses). Engineering consultancy costs (close to CFA franc 5.5
billion for the first five years when the rehabilitation program is carried out) are also a sizable
operating expense.
4.17   The Concessionfee paid by the private operator is another important expenditure item.
It consists of three parts: (i) a percentage of the Concessionaire's operating revenues paid for
the use of public infrastructure (the share payable is 0 percent of traffic revenue in the first
year, 2 percent in the second year, and 4 percent annually thereafter) part of it will finance
operation of the patrimony corporations, part their investment programs, with the remaining
surplus to be repaid to the Governments; (ii) equipment lease payments, which consist of an
annual fee calculated according to a formula defined in the Concession Agreement; and (iii)
debt service payments covering the reimbursement of principal and interest due on external
financing of the rehabilitation investment program.  Details of the annual concession fee
payments are shown in ANNEX 4.5
D.    Project Risks
4.18   Project risks are manageable and would mainly result from delays in attracting back
traffic from  road transport.  However, the concessionaire has competent personnel and
managerial independence in carrying out the program on behalf of the patrimony companies,
and a financial interest in doing so rapidly and thoroughly. An efficiently run railway would
have no difficulty to attract back, from road transport in the competing corridors, the heavy
long-distance traffic its predecessors lost due to poor operational and commercial performance.
Traffic forecasts underlying the proposed investment program are conservative (500,000 tpy of
"base" freight traffic by the end of the first three-year period, compared to RAN traffic of
600,000 tpy in the mid-eighties when service levels were already deteriorating). This reflects
the assumption that road transport services, which have been underpriced due to the excess
road transport capacity built through indirect subsidization during the 1980 drought years, will
only gradually be priced at their correct level, as existing equipment attains the end of its
useful life and equipment renewal at current prices becomes necessary.
E.     Project Sustainability
4.19   Prospects for project sustainability are good.  Based on conservative traffic and
financial projections, the private operator would start making a modest profit from year 5 of
operation, when the rehabilitation program  is expected to be fully implemented.   The
Concession Agreement covers a period of 15 years initially, extendible thereafter for five-year
intervals. The private concessionaire will have the freedom to adapt to changing economic
circumstances rapidly and decisively, while the owners maintain basic oversight rights to
ensure fair competition in the transport services sector.



-20-
F.    Environmental Aspects
4.20   The bulk of the operations of the project concern rehabilitation of rolling stock and of
existing rail infrastructure (replacement of rail and sleepers on some sections of the existing
track, reballasting, and repair of some bridges and culverts). These rehabilitation works are
unlikely to impact negatively on the environment, since they are carried out on an embankment
which has been constructed some forty years ago; they will, however, be monitored by the
Ministry  in  charge  of the  Environment.   Workshop  rehabilitation  will introduce
environmentally acceptable methods of industrial waste disposal. In addition, the
Concessionaire has agreed during negotiations to have some of its staff trained in
environmental assessment and auditing to avoid negative environmental impacts during
rehabilitation and future operation. Annual reports on the execution of this training program
will be provided to IDA.



-21-
CHAPTER V.
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   During negotiations, agreement has been reached or confirmed on the following:
(a) payments by SITARAIL to SIPF, for covering debt service payments on the loans and
credits onlent by Government for financing the project, will be made into a separate
account to be opened in the CAA (para. 2.8);
(b) standard processing times for key procurement activities (para. 3.11);
(c) the procurement, monitoring and reporting procedures outlined in the Project
Implementation Manual (para. 3.16);
(d) monitoring by the Ministry in charge of the Environment of the environmental impact of
track rehabilitation and renewal works (para. 4.20); and
(e) training of selected SITARAIL staff in environmental assessment and monitoring skills
(para 4.20).
5.2    The following conditions of Board presentation have been fulfilled:
(a) receipt of a letter of Sector Policy in the railway sector signed by the Government; and
(b) signature of an agreement for the management of railway assets between the Ivorian state
and SIPF (state/SIPF agreement) (para. 1. 17).
5.3   The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between Government and SIPF
(para. 2.7);
(b) compliance with conditions precedent to the first disbursement on the loans
contracted with CFD and EIB for the financing of the project (para 2.7);
(c) signature of the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement (para. 3.1);
(d) selection of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA for audits of the program,
SITARAIL and SIPF (para. 3.14);
(e) publication of the Decree approving the above-mentioned State/SIPF agreement
(para. 1.17); and
(f) adoption of the Project Implementation Manual specifying,by SIPF and SITARAIL
(para. 3.16).






ANNEX 1.1
SHAREHOLDERS OF THE OPERATING COMPANY






ANNEX 1. 1
page 1 of 2
SHAREHOLDERS OF THE OPERATING COMPANY
[Capita 5 CFAF billion   -
DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL                                                      SITARAIL
personnel
Government oF BU    3%
Private sector                            67%
Government of Cl                          15/
|Government of BU                          1 5%1         Govemme.tofC
SITARAIL personnel                         3%               r5%
-   ~Pnvate SectoT
67%
(*) Composed of strategic investors
constituted as a holding company (SOFIB)                 DISTRIBUTION OF CAPITAL
and small private investors
SHARE OF PRIVATE INVESTORS                67%                      SHREOF PRIVATE INESOR
SHAR OFPRIATEINVESTORS
Strategic Investors (SOFIB)            51.00%          S
SAGA and SDV                         32.64%          Small private                     SAGA and SDV
SICC                                  6.12%             16%
SOFRERAIL                              5.10%                                              -
IITRANSURB Consult                     3.06%
MAERSK                                 4.08%
Small private investors (      )       16.00%
I =-~~~~~~~~~~~~siccI
Small prisate       -   SOFRERAIL 6%
i-esom (1)    MrRSKTRANURB5%
(*) Part offered to the public through                       1           4nvestors ('')  MRS  TRANSRB5
the ABIDJAN stock exchange                                                       3%
Small Investors (1601%)   SOFIB (50 99%)



GOVERNMENTS
Handle borrowing on behalf of Govts
X | ~SIPF                | |SOPAFR | 
!  /  A                     ' \               ix Owns
\Owns
Loan ,
* Percentage of revenue    .11-
FINANCIERS                  Pay fee to Gvts   * Lease of equipment     Equipmentf> and\JInfrastructure'X
* Debt service on
L rehabilitation program           7
Proposes ipvestments                         ,-Maintains
'  S                            -----  and invests
~~-     -CONCESSIONAIRE
* Defines Transport Plan
* Operates commercial freight and passenger services
* Manages rehabilitation program
* Sets tariffs
044$. 11 49AMC.SCIEb4E.XJsU,~.ams ,cn.ht



ANNEX 2.1
DETAILED PROGRAM AND PROJECT COST
ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN






ANNEX2.1
page I of II
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau Al. Cote d'lvoire: Distribution Annuelle des Depenses du Programme
Annual Distribution of Program Expenditures
CoOts de Base (US$ Million)                Totaux Y Compris lmprevus (USS Million)
199516  1996/7  1997/8  1998/9   Total           1995/6  199617  1997/8  199819   Total
I. Couts d'Investissement
A. Materiel roulant
Maitrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant  0 56    0 38       -       -    0 94             0 59    0 40        -       -    0.99
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200  2 32    2 47      -       -    4 80             2 55    2 76       -        -    5 31
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs     1 55    011                 -    1 66             1 61    012        -        -    1 73
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons            1 16    1 01     1 17       -    335              1 21    1 07    1 26        -    354
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs  0 51    0 49      -       -    1 00             0 53    0.52        -       -    1 05
Rehabilitation grues de levage                    013    013          -       -    0 25             013    0 13         -       -    0 26
Amelioration installation d'entretien el outillage  1 29    0 35      -       -    1 64             1 42    0 39        -       -    1 81
Reconstitution stock pieces de rechange           2 03    1 11                -    3 14             2 23    1 24       -        -    3.47
Mise en oeuvre                                    0 49    0 49    0 33        -    1 31             0 53    0 56    0 38        -    1 47
Sous Total Materiel roulant                         10 05    6.54    1 50            18 09            10 79    7 19    1 65        -   1963
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication             0 73        -       -            0 73             0 80       -        -       -    050
Bloc radio-informatique                           0 50       -       -        -    0.50             0 54       -       -        -    054
Sous Total Telecommunication                         1 23       -        -       -    1 23             1 34       -       -        -    1 34
C. Voie et batiments
Ballast                                           060    060    035    035    1 91                  068    071      043    044    227
Rail                                              0.96    130    063    063    352                  1 04    1 44    071      073    393
Traverses                                         1 08    0 71    0 34        -    2 13             1 17    0 79    0 39        -    2 35
Attaches                                          0 51    0 31    0 32             1 14             0 56    0 35    0 36        -    1 28
Appareils de vove                                 0 28    019         -       -    0 47             0 29    0 20        -       -    0 49
Soudurevoie                                       024    016    0.11    011        063              027    018    013    013    0.71
Ouvrages d'Art                                    0 52    0 53    0 32        -    1 38             0 56    0 59    0 37        -    152
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais           0.21       -        -       -    0 21             0 22       -                -    0 22
Rehabilitation batiments                          056    041       012        -    1 09             060    0.46    0 14         -    1 20
Equipement de pesage                              010        -        -       -    010              010        -       -             010
Rehabilitation draisines                          016                 -       -    0 16             0 17       -                -    0 17
Aquisit,on draisines                              1 12        -                    1 12             1 16               -        -    1 16
Aquisition draisines inspection                   0 28        -       -       -    0 28             0 29       -       -        -    0 29
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                 -    0 40        -       -    0 40                -    0 42                     0 42
Aquisition wagons ballastiers                     0 54        -       -       -    0 54             0 56       -        -       -    0 56
Vehicules routiers                                0 30            -           -    0 30             0 33                -       -    0 33
Oulillage                                         0 40       -        -       -    0 40             0 42       -       -        -    0 42
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                    -    0 60        -       -    0 60                -    0 63                     0 63
Aquisition de deux bourreuses                     1 00        -       -       -    1 00             1 04       -        -       -    1 04
Reparation engins                                    -        -       -
Aquisition engins                                 0 30        -       -       -    0 30             0 31       -        -       -    0 31
Terminal conteneurs                                               -                   -                -                                -
Ingenierie technique                              0 39    0 40    0 20    0 20    1 20              0 41    0 43    0 22    0 23    1 28
Mise en oeuvre                                    1 54    1 54    1.54    0.51    514               1 65    1 75    1 80    062    5.82
Sous Total Voie et batiments                        11 10    7 17    3 95    1 81   24 03             11 83    7 96    4 56    2 15   26 51
D Equipement informatique                            0 50       -        -       -    0 50            0 51        -       -        -    0 51
Total                                                  22.87   1371      545    1 81   4384              2448   1515    621        215   4799
8/245 I 18 PM. T-YEARS XLS C, vEeRS



ANNEX 2.1
page 2 of II
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau A2. Burkina: Distribution Annuelle des Depenses du Programme
Annual Distribution of Program  Expenditures
CoCuts de Base (USS Million)             Totaux Y Compris lmprevus (US$ Million)
1995/6  1996S7  1997/8  1998/9  Total          1995/6  1996S7  1997/8  1998/9  Total
I. CoWs d'lnvestissement
A. Materiel roulant
Maitrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant  0.64    0 42      -       -    1 06            0 66    0 45       -       -    1 12
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabiliation locomotives CC2200  3.74    2 30      -       -   6 04             3 97    2 48       -       -    6 45
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs     0 15       -       -       -    0 15            0 15       -       -       -    0 15
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons            0 11    0 26    0.30       -    0 68            0 12    0 28    0 33       -    0.72
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs  0.51    0 49     -       -    1 00            0 53    0 52       -       -    1 05
Rehabilitation grues de levage                    0.13    0.13       -       -    0 25            0 13    0 13           -        0.26
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage  1 07     -       -            1 07            1 11       -       -       -    1 11
Reconstitution stock pieces de rechange           0.19    0 11       -       -    0.30            0 20    0 11       -       -    0.31
Mise en oeuvre                                    0.56    0.56    0.48       -    1.60            0 60    0 63    0 56       -    1.78
Sous Total Materiel roulant                          710    4 27    0.79        -   12 16           7 47    4 60    066         -   12.95
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication             0 53       -               -    0 53            0 55       -       -       -    0 55
Eloc radio-informatique                                                          -                   -           -                   -
Sous Total Telecommunication                         0.53       -       -       -    0 53           0 55                -       -    0.55
C. Voie et batiments
Ballast                                           0 38    0 38    0.22    0 22    120             0 40    0 42    0 26    0 27    1.34
Rail                                              0 45       -       -       -   0 45             0 47       -       -       -    0.47
Traverses                                         048        -       -       -    0 48            0.50       -       -       -    0.50
Attaches                                          0 39    0.32       -            0 71            0 41    0 33       -       -    0.74
Appareis de voie                                  0 21    0.06       -       -    0 27            0 22    0 07       -       -    0 29
Soudurevoie                                       029    0.19    0.13    013    075               030    0.21    015    015    060
Ouvrages d'Art                                    0 94    0.95    0 58       -    2 46            0 99    104    0 66        -    2.69
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais           2.59    0.12       -       -    2 71           2 75    0.13        -       -    2 89
Rehabiliation batiments                           0.34    0.25    0.08       -    0 67            0.36    0.28    0 09       -    0 73
Equipement de pesage                              0.20       -       -       -    0 20            0.21       -       -            0.21
Rehabiliation draisines                           0.16           -       -        0 16            0.17       -       -       -    0 17
Aquisition draisines                              1 12       -       -       -    1 12            1 16               -       -    1 16
Aquisition draisines inspection                      -       -
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                 -       -
Aquisition wagons ballastiers                     0.54       -                    0 54            0 56       -       -       -    0 56
Vehicules routiers                                0.30           -       -        0 30            0 31       -       -       -    0 31
Outillage                                         040        -       -       -    0 40            0 42       -       -       -      42
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                 0 50       -       -       -    0 50            0 52       -                    0 52
Aquisition de deux bourreuses                        -    1.00       -       -    1 00               -    1 05       -       -    1 05
Reparation engins                                 0.15       -       -       -    0 15            0.16       -       -            0 16
Aquisition engins                                 0.30       -       -       -    0 30            0 31       -       -       -    0 31
Terminal conteneurs                               0.40    0.20       -       -    0 60            0.42    0.22       -       -    0 65
Ingenierie technique                              0.43    0.44    0 21    0 21    1 28            0.44    0.46    0 23    0.23    1 36
Mise en oeuvre                                    0.51    0.51    051    0 17    1 71             0.54    0.57    0.59    0.20    1 91
Sous Total Voie et batiments                        11.09    4.42    1 73    0 74   17 97           11.63    4 80    1 97    0 85   19 24
D. Equipement informatique                           0.30       -       -       -   0 30            0.31        -       -       -    0 31
Total                                                  19.02    8.69    251    074   3096              19.96    9.40    285    0.85   3306
8-2.95. 1I PM. T-YEARS XLS. AU-YEARS



ANNEX 2. 1
page 3 of 11
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau A3. TOTAL: Distribution Annuelle des Depenses du Programme
Annual Distribution of Program Expenditures
Couits de Base (US$ Million)             Totaux Y Compris lmprevus (USS Million)
1995/6  199617  1997/8  1998/9  Total          1995/6  1996/7  1997/8  199819   Total
I. CoOts d'investissement
A. Materiel roulant
Maitrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant  1 20    0 80          -        2 00           1 25    0 85        -       -    2 11
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200  6 06    4 78             -   10 84           6 52    5 25        -       -   11 77
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs     1 70    0 11       -            1 81           1 76    0 12        -       -    1 88
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons            1 28    1 28    1 48            4 03           1 32    1 35    1 59        -    4 26
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs  1 02    0 98     -       -   2 00            1 06    1.03        -       -    2 09
Rehabilitation grues de levage                    0 25    0 25       -            0 50           0 26    0 26        -       -    0 52
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage  2 36    0 35                  2 71           2 53    0 39        -       -    2 92
Reconstitution stock pieces de rechange           2.23    1 22       -       -    3 44           2 44    1 35        -       -    3 79
Miseenoeuvre                                      1.05    105    081         -    292            1 12    1 18    094         -    3.24
Sous Total Materiel roulant                         1715   1081    229              3025           1826   11 78    253          -   32.58
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication             1 26       -                    1 26           1 35        -               -    1 35
Bloc radio-informatique                           0 50           -           -    0 50           0 54       -        -            0.54
Sous Total Telecommunication                         1 76       -       -            1 76           1 89       -       -        -    1 89
C. Vole et batiments
Ballast                                           0 98    0 98    0 57    0 57    3 11           1 08    1 14    0 69    0 71    3 61
Rail                                              141     1 30    063    063    3.98             152    144    071    073    440
Traverses                                         1 56    071    034         -   261             167    079    039           -   285
Attaches                                          0 91    0 63    0 32            185            0 97    0 68    0.36        -    2 02
Appareib de voie                                  0 49    0 25       -       -   0 74            0 51    0 26        -       -    0 77
Soudure voie                                      0 53    0 36    0 25    0 25    1 38           0 57    0 39    0 28    0 28    1 51
Ouvreges d'Art                                    1 46    1 48    0 90            3 84           1 55    1 64    1 03             4 21
Renouvellementvoieetrepriseramblais               280    012         -       -    292            297    013          -       -    311
Rehabilitation batiments                          0.90    066    2 20             1 76           0 96    0 74    0 23        -    1 94
Equipement de pesage                              0 30       -       -       .          30       0 31       -        -       -    031
Rehabilitation draisines                          0 32       -       -       -   0 32            0 33           -            -    0 33
Aquisition draisines                              2.24       -                    2 24           2 32        -       -       -    2 32
Aquisition draisines inspection                   0.28       -       -       -    0 28           0 29                -       -    0 29
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                 -   0 40                     0 40              -    0 42        -       -    0.42
Aquisition wagons ballasliers                     1 08       -       -       -      08           1 12        -       -       -    1 12
Vehicules routiers                                0.60       -       -       -    0 60           0 64        -       -       -    0 64
Outillage                                          80        -       -            0 80           0 83       -        -       -    0 83
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                 050    060         -            1 10           052    063          -       -    1.15
Aquisition de deux bourreuses                     1 00    1 00       -            2 00           1 04    1 05        -       -    2.09
Reparation engins                                 015        -       -            n 15           016        -        -       -    0.16
Aquisition engins                                 0 60       -       -            0 60           0 62        -       -       -    0 62
Terminal conteneurs                               0 40    0 20       -       -    0 60           0 42    0 22        -       -    0.65
Ingenierie technique                              0 82    0 84    0 41    0 41    2 48           0 85    0 89    0 45    0 46    2 65
Miseen oeuvre                                     2 06    2 06    2 06    069    6 86            2 20    2 32    2 40    0 82    7 74
Sous Total Vois et batiments                       22 19   11 59    5 68    2 55   42 00           23 46   12 76    6 53    3 00   45.75
D. Equipement informatique                          0 80        -               -    0 80           0 83       -       -        -    0 83
Total                                                  4189   22 40    7 96    2 55   74 80            44 44   24 54    9 06    3 00   8105
825. 1 I 8 PM T.IEARS LS. TOTAL



ANNEX 2.1
page 4 of II
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau Bl. Cote d'lvoire: Distribution Annuelle des Depenses du Programme
Annual Distribution of Program Expenditures
Co6ts de Base (FCFA Million)              Totaux Y Compris Imprevus (FCFA Million)
19iU19 9996/7  199t/8  199819   Total          1995/6  1996/7  199718  1998/9  Total
I. CoOts d'investissement
A. Materiel roulant
Maitrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant  282   188       -       -    470              295    201        -       -    496
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200  1,162   1,237  -       -  2,399            1,276   1,381       -       -  2.657
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs    776      55       -          -    631           605      58               -    863
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons           581     507    586        -   1,674             603     535     632       -  1 770
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs  255  245       -       -    500              265     258       -       -    523
Rehabilitation grues de levage                    63      63       -       -    125               65      66       -       -    131
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage  645  175       -       -    820              708     195       -       -    904
Reconstitution stock pieces de rechange        1,017     555       -       -   1,572           1,117    620        -       -   1,736
Mise en oeuvre                                   246    246    164         -    656              264     278     192       -    734
Sous Total Materiel roulant                       5,027   3,271     750       -  9,047            5,397   3,593     823       -  9,813
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication            363       -       -       -    363              399       -       -       -    399
Bloc radio-informatique                          250       -       -       -    250              271       -       -       -    271
Sous Total Telecommunication                        613       -       -       -    613             670        -       -       -    670
C. Voie et batiments
Ballast                                          301    301      176    176    954               338     357     216     222   1,133
Rail                                             480    651      316     316   1,762             522     720     357     366   1,965
Traverses                                        538    357    171         -1 066                565     395     193       -   1,174
Attaches                                         257     156    159        -    572              282     174    181              638
Appareils de voie                                139      94       -       -    233              144      99       -       -    243
Soudure voie                                     121      81      56      56    314              134      91      65      66     356
Ouvrages d'Art                                   262     266     162       -    690              279    297      166       -    762
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais          103       -       -             103             110       -       -             110
Rehabilitation batiments                         279    204       62       -    545              299    231       72       -    602
Equipement de pesage                              50       -       -       -      50              52       -       -       -      52
Rehabilitation draisines                          80       -       -       -      80              84       -       -       -      84
Aquisition draisines                             560       .                     560             581               -             581
Aquisition draisines inspection                  140       -       -       -    140              145       -       -       -    145
Rehabilitation draisines de controle               -    200                      200               -    211        -             211
Aquisition wagons ballastiers                    270       -       -       -    270              280       -       -       -    280
Vehicules routiers                               150       -       -       -    150              165                             165
Outillage                                        201       -       -       -    201              209       -       -       -    209
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                  -    300        -       -    300                -    316        -             316
Aquisition de deux bourreuses                    500       -       -       -    500              519       -       -       -    519
Reparation engins
Aquisition engins                                150       -       -       -    150              156       -       -       -    156
Terminal conteneurs
Ingenierie technique                             197    202    101    101    601                 205     215     110     113    642
Mise en oeuvre                                   772     772    772    257   2,572               827     873     902     310   2,911
Sous Total Voie et batiments                      5,550   3,584   1,974    906  12,013            5,916   3,980   2,282   1 077  13.255
D Equipement informatique                           248       -       -       -    248             257        -       -       -    257
Total                                                11,437   6,854   2,724    906  21,921          12,241   7,573   3105   1 077  23,995
E7,V95 1 y  YEARS XIS. ClrFCF



300                    316       -       -    316
ANNEX 2.1
page 5 of II
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau B2. Burkina: Distribution Annuelle des Depenses du Programme
Annual Distribution of Program Expenditures
CoOta de Bar gFCFA M11l1on)             Totaux YV Comda Im!prvua (FCFA Million)
1gSSU   1SSU7  1SS71  19SUS9  Total           1SS58  1SS1   19S7/8  1SStvS  Total
I. CoOts d'investissement
A. Materiel roulant
Maitrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant  318    212      -       -    530            331    226        -       -    558
Matiere doeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200  1,870   1,152   -       -  3.022          1,984   1,242       -       -  3.226
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs     73       -       -       -     73             76       -       -       -     76
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons            57    131    152         -    340             59    138    164         -    361
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs  255    245     -       -    500            265    258        -       -    523
Rehabilitation grues de levege                    63     63                     125             65      66       -       -    131
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage  536    -       -       -    536            556       -       -       -    556
Reconstiution stock pieces de rechange            97     53        -       -    150            101      56       -       -    157
Miseenoeuvre                                     281    281    241         -    802            298    313    278         -    888
Soux Total Matertel roulant                       3,549   2,136    393       -  6,078           3,734   2.299    442        -  6,475
B. Telecommunicatlon
Amelioration reseau telecommunication            265       -       -       -    265            277       -       -       -    277
Bloc radio-intormatique                                        -                  -
Sous Total Telecommunicatlon                       265        -      -       -    265            277        -       -       -    277
C. Vole at batiments
Ballrst                                          189    189    111    111    600               201    210    128    133    672
Rail                                             227       -       -       -    227            236       -       -       -    236
Traverses                                        240       -       -       -    240            249       -       -       -    249
Attaches                                         197    158        -       -    355            204    167        -       -    371
Apporeilsdevoie                                  106      31       -       -    137            110      33       -       -    143
Soudure voie                                     144     97      67      67    375             150    103       73     75    401
Ouvrages dArt                                    468    474    288         -  1,230            494    522    328         -   1,345
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais        1,297     60        -       -  1,357          1,376      67       -       -   1,443
Rehabilitation batirnents                        171    126      38        -    335            181    140       44       -    366
Equipementdepesage                               100       -       -       -    100            104       -       -       -    104
Rehabilitation draisines                          80       -       -       -     80             84       -       -       -     84
Aquisition draisines                             560       -       -       -    560            581           -           -    581
Aquisition draisines inspecton                                                    -                   -                          -
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                                                              -          -                   -
Aquisition wagons ballastiers                    270               -       -    270            280       -       -       -    280
Vehicules routiers                               150       -       -       -    150            156       -       -       -    156
Outillage                                        201       -       -       -    201            209       -       -       -    209
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                250           -           -    250            259       -       -       -    259
Aquisiion de deux bourreuses                       -    500                -    500              -    527        -       -    527
Reparation engins                                 75               -       -     75             78       -       -       -     78
Aquisiion engins                                 150       -       -       -    150            156       -                     156
Terminal conteneurs                              200    100        -       -    300            212    111        -       -    324
Ingenierie technique                             213    218    104    104    639               222    231    113    116    682
Mise en oeuvre                                   257    257    257       86    856             272    286    297    102    957
Sous Total Vole et batiments                      5,545   2,210    865    368   B,987           5,814   2.398    983    426   9,622
D Equipement informatique                          150       -       -       -    150            156        -       -      -    156
Total                                                9,509   4,346   1,257    368  15,480          9,981   4,698   1.425    426  16,530
24W 1 15 PS.TYEARS XLS. 5U.FCFA



ANNEX 2.1
page 6 of I I
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau B3. TOTAL: Distribution Annuelle des Depenses du Programme
Annual Distribution of Program Expenditures
CoftS    a de Bag IFCFA Milloni         Totaux Y Com rns ImPrvus (FCFA M lllon
91    198U9  Total           1995/6  1518/  109718  109519  Total
I. Couts d'Investissement
A. Materiel rmulant
Madrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant  600    400       -      -   1,000           626    427         -       -   1,053
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200  3,032   2,389  -      -  5,421           3,260   2,623       -       -  5,883
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabiltation locotracteurs    849      55        -      -    904            881      58        -      -    939
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons          638    638    738         -  2,014            662    673    796         -  2,131
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs  510    490     -      -  1,000            529    517         -      -   1.046
Rehabilitation grues de levage                  125    125                      250           130    132         -            262
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage  1,181  175     -      -   1,356          1,265    195        -       -   1,460
Reconstitutionstockcpiecesderechange           1,114    608        -      -   1,722          1,218    675        -      -   1,893
Mise en oeuvre                                  527    527    405         -   1,458           561    591    470         -   1,622
Sous Total Materiel roulant                       8,576   5,407   1,143      - 15,125          9,131   5,892   1,265       - 16,288
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication           628        -       -      -    628            676        -       -      -    676
Bloc radio-informatique                         250       -       -       -    250            271       -       -       -    271
Sous Total Telecommunication                       878       -       -       -    878            947       -       -       -    947
C. Vole et batiments
Ballast                                         490    490    287    287   1,554              539    568    344    355   1,805
Rail                                            707    651      316    316   1,989            758    720    357    366   2,200
Traverses                                       778    357    171         -  1,306            834    395    193         -   1,423
Attaches                                        454    314    159         -    927            487    341    181          -   1,009
Appareils de voie                               245    125         -      -    370            254    132         -      -    386
Soudurevoie                                     265    178    123    123    689               283    195    138    141    757
Ouvrages d'Art                                  730    740    450         -   1,920           773    819    515         -  2,107
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais        1,400     60       -       -   1,460          1,486     67        -      -   1,553
Rehabilitation batiments                        450    330    100         -    880            480    371      116       -    968
Equipement de pesage                             150       -      -       -    150            157        -       -      -    157
Rehabilitation draisines                        160        -      -       -    160            167        -      -       -    167
Aquisition draisines                           1,120       -       -      -   1,120          1,162       -       -      -   1,162
Aquisition draisines inspection                  140       -       -      -    140            145        -       -      -    145
Rehabilitation draisines de controle               -    200       -       -    200               -    211        -      -    211
Aquisition wagons ballastiers                   540        -       -      -    540            560        -       -      -    560
Vehicules routiers                              300        -       -      -    300            320        -       -       -    320
Outillage                                       402        -       -      -    402            417        -       -      -    417
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses               250    300         -      -    550            259    316        -       -    576
Aquisition de deux bourreuses                    500    500        -      -  1,000            519    527         -       -   1,046
Reparation engins                                75        -      -       -      75            78        -      -       -      78
Aquisition engins                               300        -       -      -    300            311        -       -      -    311
Terminal contensurs                             200    100         -      -    300            212    111         -      -    324
Ingenierie technique                            410    420    205    205   1,240              427    446    223    229   1,324
Mise en oeuvre                                 1,028   1,028   1,028    343   3,428          1,099   1,159   1,198    412   3,869
Sous Total Vole etbattiments                     11,094   5,793   2,839   1,273  21,000        11.731   6,379   3,265   1,502  22,877
D Equipement infornmatique                         398       -       -       -    398            413       -       -       -    413
Total                                               20,946  11,200   3,982   1,273  37,401        22,222  12,271   4,530   1,502  40,525
s2415, ii8 PM, T.VEARS.XLS. TOT-FCFA



ANNEX 2.1
page 7 of 11
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau Al. Cote d'lvoire: Repartition des Couts en Devises et Monnaie Locale
Share of Foreign and Local Costs
Repartitlon des Totaux Y Compris           R6partitlon des Totaux Y Compris
lmprivus (FCFA Million)                     Imprdivus (US$ Million)
Devises     Locale       Total             Devises      Locale       Total
A. Materiel roulant
Maitriss d'oeuvre rehabititation materiel roulant       392 8      103 0       495.7                0 79        0 21        0.99
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200    2,657.0          -      2,657 0               5.31           -        5 31
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs          863.3           -       863.3                1 73           -        1 73
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation Wagons                1,769.5          -      1,769.5               3 54           -        3 54
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitureas voyageurs    523.1           -       523.1                1.05           -         1 05
Rehabilitation grues de levage                          130.8          -       130.8                0.26           -        0 26
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage      903 7          -       903.7                 1.81          -         1 81
Reconstitution stock pieces de recrhange              1,736 4          -      1,736 4               3.47           -        3 47
Miss en oeuvre                                             -       733.6       733 6                   -         1.47       1.47
Sous Total Materlel roulant                              8,976 4      836.6     9,813 0               17.95        1.67       19.63
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication                   276 5      122.3       398 8                0.55        0 24        0.80
Bloc radio-informatique                                271.3           -       271.3                0 54           -        0.54
Sous Total TelecommunIcation                              547.8       122.3       670 1                1 10        0 24        1 34
C. Vole et batiments
B3allast                                                   -      1,1331      1,1331                   -        227         2.27
Rail                                                  1,964.7          -      1.964 7               3.93           -        3 93
Traverses                                             1,173.6          -      1,173.6               235            -        235
Attaches                                                637 8          -       637 8                 1.28          -         128
Appareils de vois                                       243.4          -       243 4                0.49                    0 49
Soudure voie                                           2998         56.2       356.0                0.60        011         0.71
Ouvrages d'Art                                          1454       616.8       7623                 029         1.23        1.52
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais                    -       110.3       110 3                   -        0.22        0 22
RehabilRation batiments                                    -       602.2       602 2                   -         1.20       1 20
Equipement de pesage                                    36.3        16 1        524                 007         0.03        010
Rehabilitation draisines                                58.1        25 7        83.8                0.12        0 05        0`17
Aquisition draisines                                    581.1          -       581.1                 1 16          -         1.16
Aquisition draisines inspection                         145.3          -       145.3                0 29           -        0 29
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                   211.0                   211.0                0 42                    0 42
Aquisdion wagons ballastiers                           280 2           -       280.2                0 56                    0 56
Vehicules routiers                                      164 7                  164.7                0.33                    0.33
Outillage                                              208 6           -       208.6                0.42                    0 42
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                      316.5                   316.5                0.63                    0 63
Aquisitiondedeuxbourreuses                              5189                   518.9                 1.04          -        1.04
Reparation angins
Aquisition angins                                       155.7                  1557                 031                     0.31
Terminal conteneurs                                                                                    -
Ingenierie technque                                    574.3        67.9       6422                 1.15        0.14        1.28
Mise en oeuvre                                             -      2,911.2     2,911.2                  -        5.82        582
SousTotalVoteetbatimrents                                7,715.3    5,539.6         13,254.8          15.43       1108        26.51
D Equipement informatique                                 257.4           -       257.4                0.51           -        0.51
Total                                                      17,496.9     6,498.5    23,995.3              3499        1300        4799
4W. 1 117 PM. T.LOC XLS. ClMcr



ANNEX 2.1
page 8 of II
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau A2. Burkina: Repartition des Couts en Devises et Monnaie Locale
Share of Foreign and Local Costs
R6partitton des Totaux Y Compnris           RMpartition des Totaux Y Compris
impr6vus (FCFA Million)                      Impr6vus (USS Million)
Devises     Locale       Total               Devises      Locals       Total
A. Material roulant
Maitrise doeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulant        442.9        1147        557.6                 0.89        0.23         1.12
Matiere doeuvre rehabilitation lcomotives CC2200       3,225.8           -     3,225.8                 6.45           -        6.45
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitabon locotradeurs               75.8           -        75.8                 0.15           -        015
Matiere coeuvre rehabilitation Wagons                    361 2           -       361.2                 0.72           -        072
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabiliation voitures voyageurs       523.1            -       523.1                 1.05           -        1.05
Rehabilitationgruesdelsvage                              130.8           -       130.8                 0.26           -        0.26
Amelioration installation dentretiene toutillage         556.2           -       556.2                 1.11           -         1 11
Reconstitution stock pieces de rechenge                  156.6           -       156.6                 0.31           -        0 31
Mise en oeuvre                                               -       888.4       888.4                    -        178         1.78
Sous Total Materiel roulant                               5,472.3     1,0031      6,475.3                10.94        2.01       1295
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication                    192.5        84.3       276.8                 0.38        0.17        0.55
Bloc radio-intormatique                                     -            -           -                    -           -           -
Sous Total Telecommunicatdon                               192.5        84.3       276.8                  0.38        0.17        0.55
C. Vole et batiments
Ballast                                                     -       672.0        672.0                    -        134         1.34
Rail                                                    235.6            -       235.6                 0.47           -        0.47
Traverses                                               249.1            -       249.1                 0.50           -        0.50
Attaches                                                371.1            -       371.1                 0.74                    074
Appareils de voie                                        142.7           -       142.7                 0.29           -        0.29
Soudure voie                                            338.4        62.7       401.1                  0.68        0.13        080
Ouvrages d'Art                                          259.2      1,085.7     1,3449                  0.52        2.17        269
Renouvellement vole et reprise remblais                     -      1,442.8     1,442.8                    -        2.89        2.89
Rehabiliation batiments                                     -       365.6        365.6                    -        0.73        0.73
Equipementdepesage                                       72.6         31.8       104.5                 0.15        0.06        0.21
Rehabilitation draisins                                  58.1        255          83.6                 0.12        0.05        0.17
Aquisdiondraisines                                       581.1           -       581 1                 1.16           -         1.16
Aquisition draisines inspection                              - 
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                        -
Aquisition wagons bailastiers                           280.2            -       280.2                 0.56           -        0.56
Vehicules routiers                                       155.7           -       155.7                 0.31           -        0 31
Outillage                                               208.6           -        208.6                 0.42           -        0.42
Rehabilitation de deux boureuses                        259.4            -       2594                  0.52                    0.52
Aquisition de deux bourreuses                           527.4            -       527.4                 1.05                    1.05
Reparation ngins                                          545         23.9        78.4                 0.11        0.05        0.16
Aquistion angins                                         155.7           -       155.7                 0.31           -        0.31
Terminal conteneurs                                          -       323 5       323                      -        0.65        0.65
Ingenierie technique                                    610.3         71.3      681.6                  1.22        0.14        1.36
Mise en oeuvre                                              -        957.5       957.5                    -        1.91        1.91
SousTotalVoleetbatimwnts                                  4,559.6     5,062.3      9,621.9                9.12       10.12       19.24
D. Equipemenl informatique                                 155.7           -       155.7                  0.31           -        0.31
Total                                                       10,380.0     8,149.7    16,529.7                20.76       12.30       33.06
L1 1 17 PM. T-LOCXLX. eU-LOC



ANNEX 2.1
page 9 of I1
COTE D'IVOIRE-BURKINA
Programme de Rehabilitation Ferroviaire
Tableau A3. TOTAL: Repartition des Couts en Devises et Monnaie Locale
Share of Foreign and Local Costs
R*partition des Totaux Y Compris               Rdpartition des Totaux Y Compris
Impr6vus (FCFA Million)                         lmprtvus (USS Million)
Devises      Locale       Total                Devises      Locale        Total
A. Materiel roulant
Maitrise d'oeuvre rehabilitation materiel roulanl          835 7       217 7      1,053 3                  1 67         0 44         2 11
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200       5,882 7           -      5,8B2 7                 11 77            -        11 77
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation locotracteurs              939 0           -        939 0                  1 88            -         1 88
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabiltation Wagons                    2,130.7           -      2 130 7                  4 26            -        4 26
Matiere d'oeuvre rehabilitation voitures voyageurs       1,046.1           -      1,046 1                  2 09            -        2 09
Rehabilitation grues de levage                             261 6           -        261 6                  0.52            -        0 52
Amelioration installation d'entretien et outillage       1,459 9           -      1,459 9                  2 92            -         2 92
Reconstitution stock pieces de rechange                  1.893 0           -      1,893 0                  3 79            -        3.79
Mise en oeuvre                                                 -      1,622 0     1,622 0                     -         3 24         3 24
Sous Total Materiel roulant                                14,448 7      1,8396     16,288 3                 2890          368        3258
B. Telecommunication
Amelioration reseau telecommunication                      469 0       206 7        675 6                  0.94         0 41         1 35
Bloc radio-informalique                                    271 3           -        271 3                  0 54            -        0 54
Sous Total Telecommunication                                 740 3        206.7       947 0                   1 48         0 41        1 89
C. Voie et batiments
Ballast                                                        -      1,8051      1.8051                      -         361         361
Rail                                                     2,200 3           -      2 200 3                  4 40            -        4 40
Traverses                                                1,422 6           -      1,422 6                  2 85                      2 85
Attaches                                                 1,008 9           -      1,008 9                  2 02            -         2 02
Appareils de voie                                          386 1           -        386 1                  0 77            -        0 77
Soudure voie                                              6382         1190         7571                   1 28         024          1 51
Ouvrages d'Art                                             404 7      1,702 5     2,107 2                  0 81         3 41        4 21
Renouvellement voie et reprise ramblais                        -      1,553 1     1,553 1                     -         3 11        3 11
Rehabilitation batiments                                       -       967 9        967 9                     -         1 94         1 94
Equipement de pesage                                       109 0        47 9        156 9                  0 22         0 10        0 31
Rehabilitation draisines                                   116 2        51 2        167 4                  0.23         0 10        0 33
Aqutsition draisines                                     1,162 3           -      1,162 3                  2 32                      2 32
Aquisition draisines inspection                            145.3           -        145 3                  0 29            -        0 29
Rehabilitation draisines de controle                       211.0                    211 0                  0 42            -        0 42
Aquisilion wagons ballastiers                              5604                     5604                   1 12                      1 12
Vehicules routiers                                         320 4                    320.4                  0 64                      0 64
Outillage                                                  4172            -        4172                   083             -        083
Rehabilitation de deux bourreuses                          5759            -        5759                   1 15                      1 15
Aqujsition de deux bourreuses                            1,046 3           -      1046 3                   2 09            -         2 09
Reparation engins                                           54.5        23 9         78 4                  0 11         0 05        0 16
Aquisition engins                                          311.3           -        311 3                  0 62            -         0 62
Terminal conteneurs                                            -       323 5        3235                                0 65        0 65
Ingenierie technique                                     1,184 5       139 3      1,323 8                  2.37         0 28        2 65
Mise en oeuvre                                                 -     3,868 6      3,868 6                     -         7 74        7 74
Sous Total Voie et batiments                               12,274 9    10,601.9    22,876 8                  24.55        21 20       45 75
D Equipement rnformatique                                    413.0            -       4130                    083             -        083
Total                                                         27.876,9     12,648 2    40 525 1                  55 75       25 30        81.05
B'24S5. 17 P9 T LOC XLS T-u



PROGRAMME DE REHABILITATION DU CHEMIN DE FER ABIDJAN/OUAGADOUGOU/KAYA
Schima de rinancement des investissements (couts de base)
(Millions FCFA)
AT-ERIEL ROULANT
aitrise d'oeuvre rihabilitation materiel roulant         0      470      0                0        0       470      0      530       0       0       0        0       530       0       1,000      0       0       0        0                      10
atiems d'oeuvre rehabilitation locomofives CC2200      1,913    0        0        0     486        0      2,399   2,536    0         0       0      486       0      3,022    4,449  -0            0       0      972       0                0    100
atiffes d'oeuvre rihabilitation locotracteurs            0       0       0       826      0        0       826      0       0       0        78      0        0       78        0        0         0      904      0        0                0    loo
atieres d'oeuwe rihabilitation wagons                    0    1,320      0       350      v        0      L"        o      343       0       0       0        0       343       0       1,663      0      350      0        0                0    100
atieres d'oeuwc rehabilitation mitures voyageurs         0       0       0       500      0        0       500      0       0        0      Soo      0        0       500       0        0         0     1,000    0         0       1,000    0    100
0      0                       0-        0                 0       0       0       125   -o         0                  0                                 0        0        250      0    loo
abili(stion gmes de relevage                                            0      125                       125                                                         125                0        0      250
61ioration instaliations d'entretien et outillage      820     0        0       0       0                820       0     536       0        0       0       0        536      820      536       0               0        0       1,356    0    100
econstitution stock pi6ces de rechmge                   1,4221 100        0       50      0        0       1,572     0      100      0       50      0        0        150     1,422     200               100     0        0       1,722    0    100
se en oeuvre                                            0       0       0        0       0       656      656       0      0        0       0       0       802      802        0        0        0        0      0      1,458    1,458   l(O    0
OTAL MATERIEL ROULANT                                   4,155  1,890      0      1,851   486      656      9,038   2,536   1,509     0       753    486      802      6,086    6,691   3,399       0      2,604   972    1,458    15,124
E ET BATIMFNTS                                                    I                                                                                                                                  I
allast                                                  527      0 1  427         0       0-       0       954-      0      0        0       600      0       0        600      527       0       427      600      0       0       1.554 1 100    0
1,762    0       0        0       0        0      1,762     0      227       0       0       0        0       227      1,762     227       0       0       0        0       1,989    0    100
1,065    0       0        0       0        0      1,065     0      240       0       0       0        0       240      1,065    240        0       0       0        0       1,305    0    100
572     0        0       0       0        0        572      0       0       0       355      0       0        355      572j   0           0       355      0       0        927
s de voic                                          0     210       0        0       0       0        210      0      160       0       0       0        0       160       0       370        0       0       0        0       370            100
voie                                              3 15    0        0        0       0       0        315      0      375      0        0       0        0       375      315      375        0       0       0        0       690      15
d'aii                                             0      0       690      0       0        0        690      0     1,230     0        0       0       0       1,230      0      1,230     690       0       It      0       1,920    80    20
Ilement voic et reprise remblais                   0      0        0       100      0       0        100      0       0       0    7 3-60 -0            0      1,360      0        0         0      1,460    0        0       1,460   WO    0
Rdhabilitation bfitiments                                  0      0 1   0          545      0       0        545      0       0        0      335      0        0       335       0        0 1   0          880      0        0       880    loo    0
Fquipements de pesage                                      0      30       0        0       0                50       0      100       0       0       0        0       100       0        150       0       0       0        0       150      30    70
Rehabilitation draisines                                   0      80       0        0       0                80       0      80        0       0       0        0        90       0        160       0       0       0        0        160     30    70
Aquisition draisines                                       0     560       0        0       0                560      0      560       0       0       0        0       560       0       1,120      0       0       0                1.120    0    loo
quisiiion draisine inspection                             0      140      0        0       0       0        140      0       0        0               0        0        0        0        140       0       0       0        f       140      0    l((
Rehabilitation draisines de contiole                       0     200       0        0       0       0        200      0       0        0               0        0        0        0       200        0               0        0       200      0    100
q.isition  agons ballastie,s                             0   1 270       0        0       0        0       270       0     270       0       0       0        0       270        0       540       0        t      0        0        540      0    100
chicule routiers                                        150      0       0        0       0        0       150      150     0        0        0      0        0        150      300                0        0      0        0        300      0    loo
ufillage                                                 0       0       0       201      0        0       201    201                0       0       0        0       201       201                0       20 1    0        0       402      0    100
habilitation de deux bouncuses                          0      300       0       0       0        0       300       0     150       0        0      0        0       250        0       550       0        0       0       0        550      0    100
cquisition de deux bo.aeuses                             0      500      0        0       0        0       500       0     500       0       0       0        0       500        0      1.000      0        0               0       1,000    0    loo
on mgins                                           0       0       0        0       0        0        0        0      75       0        0      0        0        75        0       75        0        0      0        0        75      30    70
quisiLion engins                                         0       0       150      0       0        0        150      0 1 150         0        0      0        0        150       0       150      150       0      0        0        300      0    100
inal conteneurs Ouaga                                It      0        0        0       0        0        0       0      300       0       0       0        0       300       0       300        0       0       0        0       300    100    0
&nkfie technique                                        0      0       590       0      0        0        590      0      640       c       0       0        0       640                         590      0       0        0       1,230    10    90
ise en ocuwe                                             0      0        0        0      0      2,572    2,572      0       0       0        0       0       856      856       0        0         0       0       0      3,428    3,428   100    0
L VOIE ET BATIMENTS                                4,391  2,310   1,857    846       0   1 2,57      11,976   351   5,157       0      2,650    0       856      9,014    4,742    7,467    1,857 1 3,496    0        3,428   20,990
LECOMMUNICATIONS
61ioration riseau telecommunications                   150    213       0       0       0        0       363       0      265      0   1  0         0   1   0        265      150      478       0        0       0        0       628     30    70
radio-informatique                                   250      "       0        0       0        0       250       0      0        0       0       0        0        0        250       0        0        0      0        0        250      0    100
TAL T       OMMUNICATIONS                              400      13      11       0       0        0       613      0      265       0       0       0        0   1  265       400       478       0       0       0        0       978
FORMATIQUE                                                                                                                                                                                    I
ents informatiques                                 0      0                246      0       0        246              0        0      150      0                150                          0      396                        96      0    100
FORMATIQUE                                       0                      246      0                                          0       ISO      0                                   1         0      396              0.       111H
rrOTAL Couts de Bas                                                                                                1 2,887  6,931      0   1 3,553   496    1,65   1 15,515 1 11,833 1 11,344 1 1,857 16,496 1 972  1
onspo  impr&wFm-anciers(3.6%X*)-- ----IrTfF-r-159                  67   1 1061  17  1   1161  787 -1[_ 11            250      0   1 1281  17  1   60   1  559  1 426  1  408  1   67   1234 1  35  1 1.346  F-F-1
iRrevisions pow imprevus physiques (T                     420 1 207 1   87   1 1381  23  1  152  1 1,028 11 136 1 326                  0   1 1671  23  1   78   1  729                 1  533  1   87   1305 1  46  1  230  1 1,757
[IOrAL GENERAL                                         W9,699 1 4,779 1 2,011 1 3,187 1 526                        1 3,127 1 7,W    I   0   1 3,8481 5261                       12,815 1 12,2861 -101 I 17,035 1 1,053 1 5,292              E=I
(1) Ces taux wnt des taux moyens et nc sont applicables qu'au cout total du projet, ils sont utilises a titm indicatif pour deteminer ]es couts supportes par chaque bailicur de fonds



PROGRAMME DE REHABILITATION DU CHEMIN DE FER ABIDJAN/OUAGADOUGOU/KAYA
Schema de financement des invest issements (couts de base)
(Millions de Dollars)
itimsed'oeuvre rehabilitation matenel roulant       0 0  109       0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      0.9    0 0     II     00   0  0     00(       00      1I      0 0      2 0     0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     2 0    20     0
atieres doeuvre rehabilitation locomotives CC2200    3 8    0 0    0 0     0 0     1 0     0.0     4 8     5 1    0 0     0 0     0 0    1 0     0 0      6 0     8 9     00       00      0 0    1 9     0 0     to08    0    100
afieresd'oeuvre r6habilitation locotracteurs        0 0    0 0     0 0     1 7    0 0      0.0      1 7    0 0    0 0     0 0     0 2    0 0     0 0      0 2     0 0     0.0      0 0         8    0 0   0 0      1 8    0    100
atieres d'oeuvre r~habilitaiion magons              0 0    2 6     0 0     0 7    0 0      0 0     3 3     0 0    0 7     00(     00    0 0      0 0      0 7     0 0     3.3      0 0     0 7    00      00      4 0     0    100
atieres d'oeuvwe r6abilitaion vootures voyageurs     0 0    0 0    0 0     1 0    0.0      0 0      1 0    0 0    0 0     00(     1 0    0.0     0.0      1 0     0 0     0 0      0 0     2 0    0 0     0 0      2 0    0    00o
6habilitation grues de relevage                      0 0    0 0    0 0     0 3    0 0     0 0      0 3     0 0    00(     0 0     0 3    0.0     0.0      0 3     0 0     0 0      0 0     0 5    0 0     0 0     0.5     0     10
rndioratson installations d'enbretien et ouhllage    1 6    0 0     0 0     0.0    0 0     0 0      1 6    1)0   1 I      0 0     0.0    0.0     0 0      ii1       6      ii1     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      2.7     0    100
eonstitution stock piices de rechange               2 8    0 2     0.0     0 1    0 0     0 0      3 1    0 0    0 2     0 0     0.1    0.0      0 0     0.3      2 8     0 4     0 0     0 2    0.0     0 0      3.4     0    100
ise en oeu,re                          ~~~~~0 0    0 0  0 0   0 0    0.0      1 3     1 3     0 0    ( ((    0 0     0 0    0 0     1 6      1 6     0 0     0 0      0 0     0 0    0.0     2 9     2.9   100   0
OTAL MATERIEL ROUTLANT                               8.3   3.8    0.0    3.7    1.0        1.3     18.1    5.1    3.0    0.0    1.5    1.0        1.6     12.2    13.4    6.8      8.0    5.2    1.9    2.9        30.2
IlE El BATIMENTS
ahlast                                               I I    0 0     0 9     0 0    0 0     0.0      1 9    0 0    0 0     0 0      1 2    00(     0 0       2      1.1   00       -09    -12    0 0       0 0      3 1    100   0
ail                                                  3 5    0 0     0.0     0 0    0.0     0 0      3.5     0 0    0 5    0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     035      3.5     0 5     0 0    0000            0 0      4 0     0    100
raverses                               ~~~~~~~~ ~~~           ~~~ ~~2.1    0.0  0 0  0 0     0 0  0.0  2.11   0 0    0 5  0 0  0 0    0 0  0 0  0 5  2 1      0.5     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      2 6  10    100
ttahees                                              I I    0 0     0 0     0 0     0 0    0.0      I1    0 0    0 0      0 0     0 7    (10      0 0     0.7      1I      0.0     0 0   07   00          0 0      1 9     0    too
ppareils de voic                                     0 0    0 4     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      04-   00    0.3       0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     0 3     0 0      0.7     0.0     0 0    0 0     0 0      0 7     0    100
odevoie                                           0.6    0.0    0.0      0 0    0 0     0 0      0 6     0.0    0 8     0 0    0 0     D)0     0 0     0 8      0 6     0 8     0.0     0 0    0 0      0 0      1 4    IS 85
vaes dart                                         0 0    0.0     1 4     0 0    0 0     0 0      1 4     0.0   2.5     0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     2 5      0 0     2 5  11.4    0.0    0.0         0 0     38a    80   20
eouvellement voie et repnse rembla,s                0.0    0 0     0 0     0 2    0 0     0 0      0 2     0 0    0.0     0 0    2.7    0 0      0 0     2 7      0 0     0 0     0.0     2 9    0.0      0.0     2 9    100    0
habilitation bitiments                              0 0    0 0     0.0     I I    0 0     0 0      11    0 0    0 0       0 0    0.7    0 0      0 0     0 7      0 0     0 0     0 0      1.8    0 0     0 0      1 8    100    0
qipemnents de pesage                                0 0    0 1     0 0     0.0    0 0     0 0      0 1     0 0    0 2     0 0    0 0    0 0      0 0     0 2      0 0     03      00o     0 0    0.0      0 0     0 3     30   70
ehabilitation draisines                              0 0    0 2    0 0     0.0    0.0      0 0     0 2     00(    0 2     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      0 2     0 0     0 3      0 0     0 0    0.0     0.0      0 3    30   70
quisition draisines                                  0 0    II      0 0     0 0    0.0     0 0      II     1)(0    II     0 0     0 0    0.0      0 0     II       0 0     2 2     0 0     0 0    0.0     0 0      2.2     0    100
quisition draisine inspection                        0 0    0 3     00      0.0    0 0     0 0      0 3    0     0 ))     0 0     0 0     0 0     0 0     0 0      0 0     0 3     0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     0 3     0    100
rhblitation draisines de contorole                 0 0    0 4     (30    0 0    0 00   00        0     0 90  0   0   T          0 0    00      0.       0 0     0 0      0 4     0 0     00(    0 0     0 0      0 4     0    10o
quisition  agons ballasters                          0 0    0 5     (10     0 0    0 0     0        0S    0 0    0 5     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      0 5     0 0      II      0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      II1     0    100
chicule rouhiers                                     0.3    0 0     0 0     0 0    0 0     0.0      0 3    0 3    0 0     0 0     01)    0 0     0 0      0 3      0 6     0 0     0 0     0 0    0 0     (III     0 6     0    100
atillage                                            0 0    0 0     0 0     0 4    0 0     0 0      0 4     0 4    0 0     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      0 4     0 4     0 0      0 0     0 4    0 0     0))      0 8     0    100
ehabilitation de deu. bourreuses                     00    0 6      0 0     0 0    0))     0 0      0 6    0 0    0 5     0 0     0 0    ((0      0 0     0 5      0 0     II      0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0       I      0    100
cquisition de deux bouffeuses                        0 0    1.0     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      1 0    0.0    I 3     0 0     0 0    0 0     00      1I0       0 0     2.0     0 0     0 0    0 0     0 0      2 0     0    100
epwaraion engins                                     0.0    0.0    0.0      0 0    0 0     0 0      0 0    0.0    0 2     0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     0 2      0 0     0 2     0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     0 2     30   70
quisition engins                                     0.0    0 0     0 3     0.0    0 0     0 0      0 3    0 0    OS3     0.0     0 0    0 0     0 0      0 3     0(3      0 3     0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0        0 6     0    100
emninal conteneurs Ouaga                             0.0    0 0     0 0     0.0    0 0     0 0      0 0    0 0    0 6     0 0     0 0    0 0      0 0     0 6      0 0     0 6     0.0    0.0    0.0       0 0     0 6     00O   0
ugensricetechnique                                   0.0    0 0     1.2    0.0    0 0      0 0      1 2    0 0    1 3     0.0     0.0    0.0     0 0      1 3     0 0      I 3     1.2     0 0    0.0    0.0       2 5     t    90
ise en mucue                                        0.0    0 0     0.0    0.0    0 0       SI     I5     0 0    0.0    0.0        0 0    0.0     1 7      1 7     0 0     0 0      0.0    0.0    0.0      6 9      6 9    tOO    0
OTL VOIE El BATIMENTS                              8.8   4.6    3.7    1.7 10.0          5.1     24.0    0.7   10.3    0.0    5.3    0.0        1.7     1 8.0    9.5    14.9    3.7  17.0    0.0         6.9     42.0
ELECOMMUIJNCATIONSI
melioration rdseau tllcommunications                0.3    0.4     0 0     0.0    0.0     0.0      0 7     0 0    0.5     0 0    0.0    0.0  I0 0        0 5      0 3     tO       0 0    0.0    0.0    0.0        1 3    30   70
Iomradio-infomatique                                 0.5    0.0     0 0     0.0    0.0     0 0      0 5    0 0    0 0     0.0     0.0    0.0      0 0     0 0      0 5     0 0     0 0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0 5     0    100
OTL TELECOMMUTNICATIONS                            0.8    0.4    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      1.2  10.0    0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0     0.5      0.8     1.0      0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0     1.8
NFORMATIQUE                                                                                                                                            1
qipements informatiques                             0(3    0 0     0 0     0.5    0 0     0 0      0 5     0 0    0 0     0.0    03      000      0      0        0 0     0 0      0 0     0.8    0.0      0 0     08a    0    10
TAL INFORMATIQUE                                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.5    0.0       0.0      0.5      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3    0 0.0    . 0     0.3    00.0      .0      00      0.8    0.0  I0.0        0.8
rOTAL Couts de Bane                                          5 791.8    3.7  15.9   1 10  165   1 43.71 5~.8   13.91   0.0]17.1ljI.Oj1  3.3  IT31.0                I23.7   227       .71  3.     19      98         7
Pr6visions pour imprdvus financiers (3 6%)             06     0 3     01     0 2    0 001   02        16     0.2I05         0           3100   .VII                 0            I    Z I iI E] .i 0     0 1  0.4  1 2.7IZ
P'revisions pour imprevus physiques (4.7%)             08     0 4     0 2  J  0                                      07     0013 10 L..2.0L2 1ZLII.II.                                    Z T ] 1 0 6    01 610  IZL        Z]
,ffT-AL CENER~AL                                       19[4   9.6 40    6.4  12.1  [  TOhj63 I50                             .   1771  .       3613361  2.                   4.        .0  1   141I  2.1 1  0.6  IZ81[
()Ces taax sot des tuax nmoyens et ne sont applicables quaau out ttal da projet, its sontultaliises a litre indicatif pour determiner ]es coals supportes par chaque bailleur de fonds
*iao.  I I9r,L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u  a~~~~~~~~a.M.S  F. pUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s0






ANNEX 3.1
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL -
SUMMARY OUTLINE
3.1 A Procurement Anrangements
3.1B  Monitoring Arrangements
3.1 C Reporting Arrangements






3.1A
Procurement Arrangements






SECTION 3
Methodes d'aquisition a, b, c, d
. Bailleur de fonds
-~  Dossier de
Dossier de   r -    -           - - - - -    Non objection                                 consultation
consultation      -    - -   l                                                              definitif
-    15j/7j            ------    Modification
- Societesde patr.  .          Montant<15%
Prorog des
delais de
soumission
Methode d'aquisition: e (valable pour des montants inferieurs a 50,000 US$)
Bon de commande                 Consultation d'au moins             Evaluation              Signature               Controle ex-post
Ou ordre de service             3 fournisseurs                      des offres                                      echantillon
lz
0-
O>
E2x3 316 P1.     IO LTE XLS S-eet



SECTION 4: OUVERTURE DES OFFRES, JUGEMENTS ET ATTRIBUTIONS DES MARCHES
Concessionnaire                  _                               Ouverture des plis         Analyse des offres                 -
par le concessionaire               _:-
i-   __                                           -   _-- - --                             =_                              Societe de pat.
i,ivite 3 7avi            ' Societes de pat. (SP)      Remiseitie copie                          proposition d'attribution- --   -
le jour de l'ouverture --_     ---                    en cas d'absence des
Socetes de patrimoine
SECTION 5: PREPARATION ET SIGNATURE DES MARCHES
Identique au dossier               Signature
de consultation et
Concessionnaire                                                                          meme prix
non objection
Discussion et negociations                     Projet de marche        Sinon                               Sionature
signe par le soumiss.
Soumissionnaire                                                                            1 5j/7j     Societe de pat.
iJ
Wd. 3t8 U6. WO*LUTE XLS Sn



ANNEX 3.IA
page 3 of 10
Convention de Concession de
l'Exploitation des Transports
Feroviaires entre le Burkina Faso,
la R6publique de Cote d'Ivoire
et la soci&e S1TARAIL
PROCEDVURES DE
MAITRISE D'OEUVRE
DU PREMIER PROGRAMME
D' INVESTISSEMIENT
Article 16.1



ANNEX 3.1.A
page 4 of 10
SECTION I:        Champ d'application
En vue de garantir la realisation rapide et a moindre cout des Travaux de Renouvellement et
d'Amrnagement des Infrastructures Ferroviaires et de Rehabilitation des Materiels
Ferroviaires identifies dans le cadre du  Premier Programme d'Investissement, la
Convention de Concession confie la Maitrise d'Oeuvre de ces travaux au Concessionnaire
conform6ment aux procedures decrites dans la pr6sente annexe.
Les Etats prennent toutes dispositions necessaires permettant la mise en oeuvre de ces
proc6dures, notamment celles indiquant les conditions dans lesquelles le Concessionnaire
agit au nom et pour le compte des Soci6tes de Patrimoine.
SECTION 2:       Methode et proc6dures d'acquisition  de biens et services -
Gen6ratit&s
2.1. Les biens et services finances par les Etats ou les Societes de Patrimoine necessaires
a la mise en oeuvre du Programme d'Investissement sont acquis par le
Concessionnaire.
2.2. Les m6thodes d'acquisition susceptibles d'etre employees sont les suivantes:
(a)    Appel a la concurrence internationale (avec ou sans pres6lection des
soumissionnaires);
(b)    Appel d'Offres international restreint;
(c)    Appel a la concurrence dont la publicite est faite localement;
(d)    Passation de marche par entente directe; et
(e)    Consultation de fournisseurs a l'echelon international ou national.



ANNEX 3.1A
page 5 of 10
2.3. La m6thode d'acquisition pour un bien ou service donn6 est choisie par le
Concessionnaire sous reserve que ladite methode soit acceptable par le bailleur de
fonds assurant le financement du bien ou service consider. La Soci&e  de Patrimoine
concernee adopte les memes regles que les bailleurs de fonds concernes. Ces regles
seront d6finies dans le contrat de pret.
2.4.  Les acquisitions effectuees selon les methodes (a) a. (d) font l'objet de march6s
signes par le Concessionnaire sous sa seule responsabilite.
Les documents de consultations, les propositions d'attribution et les projets de marche
sont soumis par le Concessionnaire a la non-objection de la Soci6te de Patrimoine
concernme, agissant a ce titre par delegation de l'Etat, dans les conditions definies ci-
apres. Ils sont egalement soumis a la non-objection du bailleur de fonds, assurant le
financement du bien ou service considere, selon les procedures definies par ledit
bailleur.
Afm d'acca&lrer la procedure, le Concessionnaire peut adresser simultanement a la
Soci6t6 de Patrimoine et au bailleur de fonds concemes les demandes de non-
objection.
2.5. Les acquisitions effectuees selon la procedure de consultation de fournisseurs a
l1echelon international ou national (procedure (e) ci-dessus) font l'objet de bons de
commande ou d'ordres de service sign6s par le Concessionnaire sous sa seule
responsabilit6.
La valeur hors taxes des acquisitions effectuees au titre de cette procedure n'excedera
pas 25 millions francs CFA par bon de commande ou ordre de service. Sous reserve
de l'application eventuelle des procedures plus contraignantes fix&es par le bailleur de
fonds concerne, le Concessionnaire consultera au moins trois fournisseurs potentiels.
Les consultations sont effectuees par ecrit et les propositions des fournisseurs sont
soumises par ecrit (y inclus par telecopie ou telex) ; elles sont 6valu&es par le
Concessionnaire en tenant compte des prix, d6lais et lieu de livraison proposes.
La signature des bons de commande ou ordres de service est effectuee par le
Concessionnaire, sans que la non-objection de la Societ6 de Patrimoine concernme
n'ait a etre sollicit6e.
La Societe de Patrimoine concern6e et le bailleur de fonds concerne peuvent contr6ler
a posteriori les conditions dans lesquelles ont et6 effectuees ces acquisitions.



ANNEX 3.1A
page 6 of 10
SECTION 3:        Documents de consultation
3.1.  Le Concessionnaire prepare et soumet a chaque Societ6 de Patrimoine au plus tard le
31 Decembre 1995, les documents-types de consultation qui sont utilises pour
chacune des methodes d'acquisition (a) a (d) ci-dessus. Les documents-types sont
adapt6s, en tant que de besoin, aux exigences propres a chacun des bailleurs de fonds
concernes. La Societe de Patrimoine fait connaitre au Concessionnaire, prealablement
entendu, les modifications qu'il convient d'apporter aux documents-types, ou, le cas
echeant, sa non-objection, dans un d6lai maximal de quinze (15) jours ouvrables
suivant la date de r6ception des documents. Les documents-types ainsi arret6s sont,
sous r6serve de la non-objection du bailleur de fonds concerne sur leur r&daction,
utilises pour toutes les consultations effectuees par le Concessionnaire.
3.2. Le dossier complet de consultation relatif a chaque acquisition effectuee selon les
meth odes (a) a (d) ci-dessus est pr6pare par le Concessionnaire et transmis pour non-
objection a la Societ6 de Patrimoine concernee. Le dossier comporte notamment les
specifications techniques des fournitures et travaux. Les complements apportds au
dossier-type de consultation sont clairement identifies.
A compter de la date de reception d'un dossier complet, la Soci&e  de Patrimoine
dispose d'un dMai de quinze (15) jours ouvrables pour delivrer sa non-objection ou
faire connaitre son refus. Le refus est toujours motive.
En cas de refus, le Concessionnaire, apres avoir modifie le document ou justifie sa
position initiale, retourne le document a la Soci&td de Patrimoine qui dispose alors
d'un deIai de sept (7) jours ouvrables pour delivrer sa non-objection ou faire
connaltre son refus motive.
En cas d'absence de reponse de la Societ6 de Patrimoine a l'issue de l'un ou l'autre
des delais fixes, la non-objection est r6putee d6livree.
3.3. Toute modification apportee par le Concessionnaire a un dossier de consultation
posterieurement a la non-objection de la Societ6 de Patrimoine est soumise a la
procedure decrite en 3.2 ci-dessus, sauf pour ce qui concerne:
(i)   la prorogation des delais de soumission des offres, et,
(ii)   la modification des quantit6s de fournitures ou prestations n'entrainant pas un
accroissement de la valeur previsionnelle du march6 superieur a 15 % du
montant previsionnel initial.
Le Concessionnaire informe la Soci&e de Patrimoine des modifications visees en (i)
et (ii) ci-dessus.



ANNEX 3.1A
page 7 of 10
3.4. Dans le cas ou, au titre de la procedure d'appel a la concurrence internationale (a), il
est proc6d6 A une preselection des soumissionnaires, les documents de pr6sdlection
sont prepares par le Concessionnaire et present6s A la non-objection de la Societ6 de
Patrimoine selon la proc6dure decrite en 3.2 ci-dessus.
3.5.  Dans le cas ou il est fait appel A la procedure d'Appel d'Offres international (b), la
liste des fournisseurs consultes est preparee par le Concessionnaire et presentee a la
non-objection de la Societe de Patrimoine selon la procedure decrite en 3.2 ci-dessus.
3.6.  Dans le cas ou il est fait appel A la procedure de passation de marches par entente
directe (d), le dossier de consultation prepare par le Concessionnaire est accompagne
d'une note justifiant le recours A ladite procedure.
SECITON 4 -       Ouverture des offres, jugement et attribution des marches
4.1. L'ouverture des offres est effectuee par le Concessionnaire en conformite avec les
procddures du bailleur de fonds concern6. Une invitation A assister A l'ouverture des
offres est adressee par le Concessionnaire A la Societe de Patrimoine concern6e, dix
(10) jours au moins avant le jour fixe pour l'ouverture. L'absence de la Societe de
Patrimoine n'entraine pas le report de l'ouverture des offres.
4.2. Une copie de l'ensemble des offres recues est remise par le Concessionnaire A la
Soci&A de Patrimoine concern6e. Cette remise est effectuee lors de la seance
d'ouverture des offres si la Societe de Patrimoine y est represent6e ; dans le cas
contraire, la copie est transmise par le Concessionnaire le jour meme de l'ouverture.
Le Concessionnaire et la Societe de Patrimoine concernme s'engagent a respecter la
confidentialite des soumissions.
4.3. L'analyse des offres est effectuee sous la seule responsabilit6 du Concessionnaire. Le
rapport d'analyse des offres accompagn6 de la proposition d'attribution du march6 est
prepare par le Concessionnaire et transmis pour non-objection A la Societe de
Patrimoine concernme.
A compter de la date de reception du rapport, la Societ6 de Patrimoine dispose d'un
d6lai de quinze (15) jours ouvrables pour delivrer sa non-objection ou faire conna2tre
son refus. Le refus est toujours motive.



ANNEX 3.IA
page 8 of 10
En cas de refus, le Concessionnaire, apres avoir modifie le document ou justifie sa
position initiale, retourne le rapport accompagn6 de la proposition d'attribution du
march6 a la Societe de Patrimoine qui dispose alors d'un delai de sept (7) jours
ouvrables pour delivrer sa non-objection ou faire connaitre son refus motive.
En cas d'absence de reponse de la Societe de Patrimoine a l'issue de l'un ou l'autre
des d6lais fixes, la non-objection est reputee delivree.
SECTION 5:        Preparation et signature des marches
5.1.  Ie Concessionnaire prepare et n6gocie avec le soumissionnaire retenu les projets de
march6. Les projets de marche duiment signes par le soumissionnaire retenu sont
transmis, avant leur signature par le Concessionnaire, a la Societe de Patrimoine
concernee pour non-objection.
A compter de la date de reception du projet de marche, la Societe de Patrimoine
dispose d'un delai de quinze (15) jours ouvrables pour delivrer sa non-objection ou
faire connaltre son refus. ILe refus est toujours motive.
En cas de refus, le Concessionnaire, apres avoir modifie le projet et I'avoir fait signer
par le soumissionnaire retenu ou justifie sa position initiale, retourne le projet a la
Societe de Patrimoine qui dispose alors d'un delai de sept (7) jours ouvrables pour
dElivrer sa non-objection ou faire connaltre son refus motive.
En cas d'absence de reponse de la Societe de Patrimoine a l'issue de l'un ou l'autre
des delais fixes, la non-objection est reputee delivrEe.
5.2. n n'est pas fait recours a. la procedure decrite en 5.1 ci-dessus lorsque:
(i)   le projet de marche que le Concessionnaire et le soumissionnaire retenu se
proposent de signer est en tous points identique au projet de marche
eventuellement inclus dans le dossier de consultation pour lequel la Societe de
Patrimoine a delivr6 sa non-objection, et
(ii)  le prix du marche est conforme au prix precise dans la proposition
d'attribution du marche pour laquelle la Societe de Patrimoine a delivre sa non-
objection. Dans ce cas, le Concessionnaire procede directement a la signature
du marche des que celui-ci a ete signe par le soumissionnaire retenu.



ANNEX 3.1A
page 9 of 10
5.3. Le Concessionnaire adresse a la Societe de Patrimoine concernee copies conformes
de tous les march6s signes dans un dMlai maximal de trois (3) jours ouvrables apres
leur signature.
SECTION 6:       Execution des fournitures de biens et services
6.1.  Le Concessionnaire est seul responsable du controle et du suivi de l'execution des
foumitures de biens et services acquis au titre des marches ou des bons de commande
et ordres de service ainsi que de l'etablissement des decomptes et du visa des factures.
6.2. Le Concessionnaire presente les decomptes et/ou les factures a la Societ6 de
Patrimoine concernme pour paiement. La Societ6 de Patrimoine fait proceder au
paiement selon les proc6dures arretes avec le bailleur de fonds concerne. Le
Concessionnaire est tenu informe du reglement.
6.3. Les acquisitions effectuees selon la procedure de consultation de fournisseurs a
1'echelon international ou national (procedure (e) decrite a I'article 2.2 ci-dessus)
seront r6glees directement par le Concessionnaire par l'intermediaire de comptes
speciaux aliment6s par les bailleurs des fonds concernes.
Dans le cas ou le Concessionnaire gere par d6legation de la Societe de Patrimoine, un
compte special, il produira prealablement k l'utilisation des fonds une caution
bancaire delivree par une banque ou un 6tablissement financier de reputation
internationale et de premier rang install6 dans l'un des Etats de l'UEMOA. Le
montant de cette caution doit etre egal au montant de l'avance faite par le bailleur de
fonds.
La caution sera appelee au cas ou le bailleur de fonds concern6 refuserait d'accepter
les depenses reglees par le Concessionnaire au moyen du compte sp6cial.
6.4.  Les repr6sentants de la Societe de Patrimoine concern6 ont le droit d'acceder
librement aux chantiers et d'avoir communication des documents techniques,
juridiques et financiers relatifs a 1'execution des fournitures de biens et services
acquis au titre du programme.
6.5. Le Concessionnaire fait parvenir a la Societ6 de Patrimoine concernee un rapport
mensuel d'execution du programme. Le rapport est transmis au plus tard le 15 du
mois suivant.



ANNEX 3.1A
page 10 of 10
SECTION 7:        Rception des travaux et fournitures
7.1.  Les receptions provisoires et d6finitives sont effectu6es par le Concessionnaire avec
la participation de la Societe de Patrimoine et de I'Etat concerne.
Le Concessionnaire redige et signe les proces-verbaux de reception qu'il soumet au
visa de l'Etat concern6.
7.2. Le Concessionnaire notifie a la Societe de Patrimoine au moins quinze (15) jours a
I'avance, les dates pr6vues pour les receptions provisoires et definitives. La Socidt
de Patrimoine est charg&e d'inviter les services competents de l'Etat concern6.
Le processus de delivrance du visa de l'Etat relatif aux receptions provisoires et
d6finitives est le suivant:
-A partir de la date de reception du proc-s-verbal de reception provisoire soumis au
visa de l'Etat, celui-i dispose, pour accorder son visa ou notifier son refus
motive, d'un delai de quinze (15) jours;
-En cas de refus, le Concessionnaire, apres prise en compte des objections 6mises,
retourne celui-ci A 'Etat qui dispose alors d'un second delai de huit (8) jours
pour accorder son visa ou faire connaitre son refus motiv6.
7.3.  L'Etat pourra delivrer des visas de r6ception provisoire comportant des riserves
mineurs afin de ne pas bloquer deraisonnablement les fonds financant les 6ch6ances
dues aux r6ceptions provisoires. Le contrat des travaux devra pr6ciser les delais de
levee des reserves.
7.4.  Les pi&ces de rechange et fournitures diverses acquises au titre du programme sont
receptionnees par le Concessionnaire qui en assure le stockage dans des magasins
sp6ciaux. Le Concessionnaire assure la gestion des stocks correspondants.
Fait a Abidjan, le ler Aout 1995



3.1B
Monitoring Arrangements






ANNEX 3.1B
page 1 of 3
Convention de Concession de
1'Explcitaiion des Transports
Fero,viaires entre le Burldna Faso,
la R6publique de C6te d'Ivoire
et la soci6t6 SrrARAIL
MISSIONS ET REGLES DE
FONCTIONNEMENT DU COMITE
DE SUIVI
Article 63
THE MONITORING COMMTTEE:
ATTRIBUTES AND WORKING PROCEDURES



ANNEX 3.1B
page 2 of 3
MISSIONS ET REGLES DE FONCTIONNEMENT
DU COMrTE DE SUIVI
SECTION I - MISSION
Le Comite de Suivi, cadre de concertation entre I'Autorit6 Concedante, les Societes de
Patrimoine et le Concessionnaire (les Parties) est habilite d'une faon gen6rale a examiner
toute question relative a 1'execution de la Convention de Concession.
A cet effet, seront obligatoirement soumis a 1'examnen du Comite de Suivi:
-     Toute demande d'utilisation des Infrastructures Ferroviaires par un autre
operateur,
-     Chacune des conventions p6riodiques,
-     Tout litige entre le Concessionnaire et les Soci6tes de Patrimoine,
-     - Tout litige entre le Concessionnaire et I'Autorit6 Concedante avant la mise en
oeuvre des sanctions prevues par la Convention de Concession,
-     Toute demande d'interpr6tation, de modification des dispositions de la
Convention de Concession,
-     La demande de resiliation pour absence de faute du Concessionnaire.
e Comite de Suivi emet des recommandations et avis qui sont soumis, selon le cas, ;
l'Autorite Concedante, au Concessionnaire, aux Societes de Patrimoine.
SECTION II -      FONCTIONNEMENT
2.1.- Les Parties doivent designer leurs representants dans uni de6lai'de6'trente (30) jours
apres 1'entree en vigueur de la Convention de Concession. Chacune des Parties
notifiera A I'autre le nom de son ou de ses representants.
En cas d'empechement du ou des representants, la Partie concernee doit j%uvvoir a
son remplacement.



ANNEX 3.1B
page 3 of 3
2.2.  Ia prEsidence du ComitM est assurde alten  et par le crhasentant dc cun
des Etat. Le mandat de la prEsidence est d'un an. Lc premier mandat expire fin
Septembre 1996.
Le Comit4 de Suivi se r&unit sur convocation de son Pr6sident chaque fois que de
besoin. 11 fixe l'ordre du jour et le lieu des reunions.
Toute Partie peut demander la tenue d'une rEunion A condition qu'elle propose un
ordre du jour et un d6lai raisonnable pour la tenue d'une telle reunion;
Le secrtariat du Comitc de Suivi est assure par SITARAIL.
2.3.  Les ddlibations du Comit de Suivi ne sont valabls que si au moinssix (6)
membres sont prEsents dont un reprEsentant du Burkina Faso, un reprsentant de la
Met d'Ivoirc et un representant de SITAkAIL.
Les ddcisions sont prises a l'unamimitc des membres prxents.
Le procbs verbal des rEunions du Comit    ipar le secrariat doit reflter les
diff6rentes opinions Emises. nI est paraph6 ct signE par les diffErentes Parties.






3.1C
Reporting Arrangements






ANNEXE 3.1 C
page 1 of 2
LISTE DES INDICATEURS DE PERFORMANCE ET
STATISTIQUES QUE SITARAIL SUIVRA ET TRANSMETTRA AUX
BAILLEURS DE FONDS MENSUELLEMENT (M) ET/OU ANNUELLEMENT (A)
MARCHAN ISES
. Tonnage transporte: global et pour les principaux produits (M,A)
. Nombre de wagons charges: global et pour les principaux produits (M, A)
V Volume (tk) du traffic: global et pour les principaux produits (M, A)
. Recettes (FCFA): globales et pour les principaux produits (M,A)
. Recette a la tk: globale et pour les principaux produits (M,A)
. Nombre de trains-kilometres (en distinguant trains complet et autres trains (A)
VOYAGEURS
. Nombre de voyageurs: global et par types de trains (International, omnibus si
applicable (M, A) et par classes (A)
V Volume (vk): global et par types de trains (M, A) et par classes (A)
. Recettes: globales et par types de trains (M,A) et par classes (A)
. Nombre de sieges-kilometres offerts (sko): globales et par types de trains (M,A) et
par classes (A)
. taux d'occupation des trains (vk/sko): global et par types de trains (M,A) et par
classes (A)
. Recettes par vk: global et par types de trains (M, A) et par classes (A)
. Recette par sko: global et par types de trains (M, A) et par classes (A)
. Nombre de trains-kilometres par types de trains (A)
. Vitesse commerciale moyenne des trains par types de trains (A)
. Pourcentage des trains arrivant a destination avec un retard superieur a 15 minutes,
30 minutes, 60 minutes: global et par types de trains (A)
PERSONNEL
. Effectifs du personnel (M, A)
. Productivite moyenne du personnel (tk+vk/n effectifs) (A)
. Ratio charges de personnel/recettes du trafic (A)
. Ratio charges de personnel/valeur ajoutee par l'entreprise (A)
. Ratio charges de personnel de gestion/charges totaux de personnel
. Remuneration moyenne du personnel (charges de personnel/effectifs globaux) (A)



ANNEXE 3.1 C
page 2 of 2
MATERIEL MOTEUR
. Nombre et taux de disponibilite des locomotives de lignes (M, A)
. Coefficient d'utilisation des locomotives de lignes (M, A)
MATERIEL REMORQUE
. Nombre et taux de disponibilite des wagons marchandises (M, A)
. Chargement moyen des wagons marchandises (tonnage charge/nombre de wagons
charges) (M, A)
. Rotation moyenne des wagons marchandises (M, A)
. Nombre et taux de disponibilite des voitures voyageurs (M, A)
INFRASTRUCTURES
* Longueur des ralentissements voie par niveau de vitesse (M, A)
. Duree de releve des ralentissements voie (A)
. Duree des interruptions telephoniques (M, A)
GESTION FINANCIERE
. Marge brute d'autofinancement (A)
. Coefficient brut d'exploitation ("working ratio") (A)
. Coefficient net d'exploitation ("operating ratio") (A)
[D'AUTRES INDICATEURS FINANCIERS POURRAIENT EVENTUELLEMENT
ETRE AJOUTES].
A VAbed Mi-oft Cw-o
M:\4INSHARE\KAIS1ANNE)CES\ANNEXEFR.3-I
AMguS11 1199511:519AM



ANNEX 4.1
PROJECTIONS FOR FREIGHT AND PASSENGER
TRAFFIC, 1995-2010






Table A: ASSUMPTIONS FOR RAIL TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS                                                                                       HYPOTHESES POUR LES PREVISIONS DE TRAFIC
Petroleum Products      26,428     46.000   69,000  90,000        I ,083 Annual imports of SONABHY (Petroleum company) are 180,000 tons. Railway part of the market is about 50%.
objective to be attained by 2010. The first year traffic volume assumes that two trains per week are used.
Containers              31,311     32,000  2.5%     2.5%          1.043 The first year volume is equal to the current one, growing at 2.5% p.a.
Cement                            _-                              1,044 The annual consumption of cement of Burkina Faso is about 240,000 tons. Railway part of the market is about 75%.
______________                ______   180,000 tons of Cement and Clinker will be attained by 2010.
Grains                  28,000     24,000  2.5%     2.5%           960 Actual volume is less than last years. The 24,000 tons projected correspond to the usual volume
Fertilizers             20,000     24,000  2.5%     2.5%           935 A 2.5 % annual increase is assumed.
Fruits                   2,000      1,000    1.000    1,000        937 Fruit volume is expected to decrease the first year and to remain constant after.
Iron products           12,000     12,000   18,000  2.5%           908 The total capacity of railway is expected to be attained at 2001, then a 2.5% rate of growth is assumed.
alt                      700        500    5,000  2.5%            742
ehicles                  336        300      500  2.5%           1,145
ers                   6,000      6,000   12,500   18,000        973
Animals                  7,000      8,000   12,800  18,000          995 20,000 tons is the volume of Burkina exports, 50% of this acrosses the border without control. Improved quality of service
_                     ~~~~~~~~would increase the rail volume transported and limit fraud.
Cotton (Fibre)          20,000     25,000  40,000  56,000           855 56,000 tons is the the total Burkina exports of cotton, it is expected that rail will reattract all this volume by the year 2010.
as it was in the mid-80s. A short terin objective of 40,000 tons is expected to be reached by the year 200 1.|
Karite                    750         750   2.500   17,500          843
otton (seeds)           1,000       667    1,400   2,340           843l
Sesame                   250        250  2.5%      2.5%            8431
Fruits                  2,000      2,500    4,000   6,000          1,014 1
Others               I1,000      I,00U    3,000   4,0001         998
I  ___  _    __ _                                                                                                                                                                      I  ___II____         t~ 
Petroleum Products      80,000    200,000  2.5%     2.5%            325 Ivoirian Govemment took measures to favor hydrocarbon transport by rail rather than by road because of safety reasons
I _________________   ________  ______ and in order to restrict fraud. A 2.5% annual increase is adopted from 2001 onwards.
Grains                  11,000     15,000  20.000  40,000           325 40,000 tons is the total volume between Abidjan and Bouake, it is expected to be reached at 2010.
Fertilizers                  0          0   10.000  2.5%            325 30,000 tons of fertilizers are necessary to cotton cultivation, rail part is about 30% expected to be attained at 2001.
Cotton Fibre                 0          0   10,000  30,000          325
Others                    400        400    2.500    5,000          250I
Manganesc                   0    20,000   20.000   20,000         1.260jA 20,000 tons annually are foreseen at irregular intervals to serve niche markets; this level can be higher if
l__________________________________________________________  l_____________ _  llmanganese  market prices  improve.
Clinker                       - |    -    |   -   |   -   |        1.150 see cement.
rassengers          J    -   j    -    J                            350|see chapter IV section A.
IQ
32.,Ifl~~~~~~4 TI 414tH .\14 4..Sq,...~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             ~nz 



Table B: SUMMARY OF ACTUAL AND PROJECTED TRAFFIC                                                                   RESUME DE L'HISTORIQUE ET DES PREVISIONS DE TRAFIC
Ine=ational (montee)                                                            =                                      1             183   184   189   199   211  221   234   24
Intemational (descente)                                                                                                                9 7  34   373    42    46    5         6 54
International                         519    543   554   440   447   425   392   4001  360   360   360   321   261   230   212   218   2271  241   257   271   288   3
National    d75                                  65 6e    58    54    60    991          4      66    66    68    44    52    4      2 30    70   73        76     79     82    86
New traffic                               0       0     0      0     0      0     0      o     0      0  o         0      0  o   c          83   132   152   162   183 1_86
ITOTAL                                          6     62t   4981 501   485   4911  504   426   4261 42    365   313[  2701  24. 371   431   469   498   536   560   581
|fTotal                               1 1,2521 1,0741 9111  9981 8351  89   681   4931  4461  4001 3841 2991 2801  2601 25 1 1251.1671  2141  2651  3231  j661  3731
Fpntemational (montee)                                                                                                               169   181   186   197   2091  220   233   247
Intemational (descente)                                                                                                               32  38.2  42.5  46.8  51.1| 55.4  59.7   64
Intemational                          531    554   577   468   483   467 |426               88   375  359              1   225   201   219   229   244   260   275   293   311
National                                216    179   116   155   147   165   2752           180   150   116   113   144   110  91.4   215   225   235   2441  254   264   274
New traffic                                                                                             ___ 0             A                70   113   130   139   157   160   160
jTOTAL                                   747    733   6931  6231 6301  6321 7011 7131 568   5251  4751  4391  4251  3351  29    5041  566   608   6441  686   77   74
|[otal                 -          -        3511  3421 3.061 3.091 2.531 2.441 1.961 1.581 1.551 1.401 1.341 1.18   1.00'   0.90l 0.7211 0.361 0.481 0.611 0.761 0.921 1.041 1.07
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FREIGHT TRAFFIC (TKmi uiWio)                                               ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FREIGHT TRAFFIC (000 toas)
_______                                                                                          ___I                                                 i; wE ;; f ; iA  E:;  CE i  t  7  V  j:  ;  S;;  I  s  |  ,_                                            I
|~~~~~~~~~~~~ - I    -                     -   -   -   -   -   -   -^                        L                                                  -    - t -   -   -   -   -   !  
-   ftOTaLion  ....-   National   New                                             --_cTOAIntnou                Natial          New trafric       TOTAL.
l                                            l                                                                                            l~~~~~~~~~~I
_  ___   _. tfht m uj.,  U.____



Table C: TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS                                                                                                                                                                PREVISIONS DE TRAFIC
International Freight Traffic (From  Cote d'lvoire to Burkina)                                                                                                          Trafic International de Marchandises (montee)
Trffc Volsme (Tons)                1994          1995      1996       1997      1998       1999        2000        2001        2002        2003       2004       2005        2006       2007       2008        2009         2010
Petroleum Products                  26,100    46,000      49,833    53.667     57,500    61,333      65,167      69,000      71,100      73,200     75,300     77,400      79,500     81,600      83,700      85,800      90,0D0
Containers                           31,300    32,000     32,800    33,620     34,461    35,322      36,205      37,110      38,030      38,989     39,964     40,963      41,987     43,036      44,112      45,215      46,346
Cement                              37,300     35,100     27,728    25,383    24,768    22,382       23,027      24,302      25,610      26,950     28,324     29,732      31,175     32,654      34.171      35,725      37,318
Grains                              28,100    24,000      26.667    29,333     32,000    34,667      37,333      40,000      41,000      42,025     43,076     44,153      45,256     46,388      47,547      48,736      49,955
Fentihzes                           20,000    24,000     26,667     29,333     32,000    34.667      37,333      40,000      41,000      42,025     43,076     44.153      45,256     46,388      47,547      48,736      49,955
Fruits                               2,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000       1.000       1,000       1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000
Iron products                        12,000    12,000     13,000    14,000     15,000    16,000      17,000      18,000      18,450      18,911     19,384      19,869     20,365     20,074      21,396      21,931      22,480
Salt                                   700        500      1,250     2,000      2,750     3,500       4,250       5,000       5,125       5,253      5,384       5,519      5,657       5,798      5,943       6,092       6,244
Vehicles                               340       300        333        367       400        433         467         500         500         500        500        500         500        500        500          500         500
Others                               11,500     6,000      7,083     8,167      9.250    10,333      11,417      12,500       12,750     13,000     13,250      13,500     13,750      14,000     14,250      14,500      15,000
TOTAL                               169,340   180,900    186,361    196,870   209,129   219,637     233,199     247,412     204,573     261,853    269,257    276,787    284,447    292,239    300,168       308,236     318,796
Traflic Volume (000 Ton-IOns)      1994          1995      1996       1997      1998       1999        2000        2001        2002        2003       2004       2005        2006       2007       2008         2009        2010
Petroleum Products                   28,266    49,818    53,970     58,121     62,273    66,424      70,576      74,727      77,001      79,276     81,550      83,824     86,099      88,373     90,647      92,921      97,470
Containers                           33,898    33,376     34,210    35,066     35,942    36,841      37,762      38,706      39,674      40,665     41,682      42,724     43,792      44,887     46,009      47,159      48,338
Cement                               40,396    36,644     28,948    26,500     25,858    23,367      24,040      25,371      26,737      28,136     29,570      31,040     32,547      34,091     35,675      37,297      38,960
Grains                               30,432    23,040     25,600    28.160     30,720    33,280      35,840      38,400      39,360      40,344     41,353      42,386     43,446      44,532     45,646      46,787      47,956
Fertlizers                          21,660     22,440     24,933    27.427    29,920     32,413      34,907      37,400      30,335      39,293     40,276      41,283     42,315      43,373     44,457      45,56S      46,707
Fr-iis                               2,166        937       937        937       937        937         937         937         937         937        937        937         937        937        937          937         937
Iron products                        12,996    10,896     11,804    12,712     13,620     14,528     15.436       16,344      16,753     17,171     17,601      10,041     18,492      I0X954     19,428      19,914      20,411
Salt                                   758        371       928      1,484      2,041     2,597       3.154       3.710       3,803       3,898      3.995       4,095      4,198       4,302      4,410       4,520       4,633
Vehicles                               368        344       382        420       458        496         534         573         573         573        573        573         573        573         573         573         573
Others                               12,455     5,038      6,892     7,946      9,000     10,054      11,108      12,163     12,406      12,649     12,892      13,136     13,379      13,622     13,865      14,109       14,595
TOTAL                               183,395    183,704    188,604    198,772   210,768   220,938    234,293     248,330     255,577     262,942    270,428    278,038    285,776    293,643    301,646       309,785     320,581
Traffic Revenues (CFAF Millions)    1994         1995      1996       1997      1998       1999        2000        2001        2002        2003       2004       2005        2006       2007        2008        2009        2010
Perioleum Products                              1,621      1,756     1,891      2,026     2,161       2.296       2,431       2,505       2.579      2,653       2,727      2,801       2,875      2,949       3,023       3,171
Containers                                      1,062      1,088     1,115      1,143      1,172       1.201       1,231       1,262      1,294      1.326       1,359       1,393      1,428      1,464       1,500        1,530
Cement                                            731       577        528        516       466         479         506         533         561        590        619         649        680         711         744         777
Grains                                            540       600        660       720        700         840         900         923         946        970        994        1,019      1,044      1,070        1,097       1,125
Fertzers                                         408        453        498       544        589         634         680         697         714        732        750         769        788         808         828         849
Fruits                                             30        30         30        30         30          30          30          3030                   30         30          30         30          30          30          30
Iron products                                     255       276        298       319        340         361         383         392         402        412        422         433        444         455         466         478
Sall                                               10        24         38         53        67          82          96          99         101        104         106        109         112        114         117         120
Vehicles                                           19        22         24        26         28          30          32          32          32         32         32          32         32          32          32          32
Others                                            109       223        257       292        326         360         394         402         410        418        426         433        441         449         457         473
TOTAL                                           4,865      5,050     5,341      5,668     5.959       6,315       6,684       6,875       7,069      7,266       7,466      7,663       7,874      8,083       8,295        8,592
II 



Table C (cont'd)
International Freight Traffic (From  Burkina to Cote d'lvoire)                                                                                                               Trafic International de marchandises (Descente)
Traffic Volume (Tons)                1994          1995       1996       1997       1998       1999        2000         2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007        2008        2009         2010
Animals                                7,000      S,00       S,S00      9,600     10,400     11,200       12,000      12,S00       13,320      13,840     14,360      14,850      15,400      15,920      16,44D       16,960      18,000
Cotton (Fibre)                        20,000     25,000     27,500     30,000     32,500     35,000       37,500      40,000      41,600       43,200     44,500      46,400      485000      49,600      51,200       52,800      56,000
Karite                                   750        750      1,042      1,333       1,625      1,917       2,208       2,500       4,000        5.500      7,000       8,500       10,000      11,500      13,000      14,500       17,500
Conon (seeds)                          1,000        667        789        911       1.034      1,156       1,278       1,400        1,494       1,588       1,682       1,776       1,870       1,964      2,058        2,152       2,340
Sesame                                   250        250        256        263        269        276         253          290         297          305        312         320         328         336         345          353         362
Fuits                                  2,000      2,500      2,750      3,000      3,250      3,500        3,750       4,000       4,350        4,700      5,050       5,400       5,750       6,100       6,450        6,800       6,000
Othens                                 1,000      1,000      1,333      1,667      2,000      2,333        2,667       3,000        3,100       3,200      3,300       3,400       3,500       3,600       3,700        7,800       4,000
TOTAL                                 32,000     38,167     42,470     46,774     51,078     55,382       59,686      63,990      68,161       72,333     76,504      80,676      84,848      89,020      93,193       97,365      104,302
Tramffic Volume (000 Too-Kms)        1994          1995       1996       1997       1998       1999        2000         2001        2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007        2008         2009        2010
Animals           .                    6,965      7,960      8,756      9,552     10,348     11,144       11,940      12,736       13,253      13,771      14,288      14,806      15,323      15,840      16,358      16,875       17,910
Cotton(Fibre)                         17,100     21,375     23,513     25.650     27,758     29,925       32,003      34,200       35,565      36,936     35,304      39,672      41,040      42,405      43,776       45,144       47,550
Karite                                  632         632        878      1,124       1,370     1,616        1,862       2,108       3,372        4,637      5,901       7,166       8,430       9,695       10,959      12,224       14,753
Cotton (seeds)                           843        562        665        768        871        974        1,077       1,180        1.259       1,339       1,418       1,497       1,576       1,656       1,735       1,814        1,973
Sesame                                   211        211        216        221        227        233         238          244         251          257        263         270         277         283         291          298         305
Froits                                 2,028      2,535      2,789      3,042      3,296      3,549        3,803       4,056       4,411        4,766      5,121       5,476        5,531      6,15        6,540        6,895        6,084
Others                                   998        998      1,331      1,663       1,996     2,329        2,661       2,994        3,094       3,194       3,293       3,393       3.493       3,593       3,693       3,792        3,992
TOTAL                                 28,777     34,273     38,147     42,021     45,895     49,769       53,644      57,518       61,208      64,898     68,588      72,279       75,969      79,660     53,351       87,042       92,896
Traffic senoes (CFAF Millions)       1994          1995       1996       1997       1998       1999        2000         2001        2002         2003       2004        2005        2006        2007        2008         2009        2010
Animals                                             251        276        301        326        351         377          402         418          434        451         467         483         500         516          532          565
Cotton(Fibre)                                       396        435        475        515        554          594         633         659          684        709         735         760         785         811          836          887
Karite                                               10         14         15         22         26           30          34          54           74         95         115          135         155         176         196         237
Cotton(seeds)                                        10         12         14         16         is          20           22          23           25         26          28          29          31          32           33           36
Sesame                                                3          3          4          4          4            4           4           4            4          4           4           4           5            5           5            5
Fnrits                                               74         81         89         96        103          III         118         129          139        149          160        170          180        191          201          177
Others                                               29         39         49         58         68           78          87          90           93         96          99          102         105         108         III          116
TOTAL                                               774        862        949       1,037      1.125       1,212       1,300        1,377       1,454       1,530       1.607       1,684       1,761       1,837       1,914        2,023
National Freight I raffics (Cote d'lvoire and Burkina)                                                                                                      Trafics Nationnux de Marchandises (Cotc d'lvoire et Burkina)
Trafic Volume (Tons)                 1994          1995       1996       1997       1998       1999        2000         2001        2002         2003       2004        2005        2006        2007        200W         2009        2010
Petroleum Prodwcrs                    80,000    200,000    205,000    210,125    215,378    220.763      226.282     231,939      237,737     243,681    249,773     256,017     262,417     268,Q78     275.702       0282595     289,660
G-oins                                I1,000     15,000     15,533     16,667     17,5030     19,33S3     19.167      20,000       22,000      23,600      25,200      26.500      29,400      10,000      31,600      33.200       40,000
Fertiizers                                 0          0      1,667      3,333      5,000      6,667        8,333      10,000       10,250      10.506      10,769      11,038      11,314      10W,597     110887      12,104       12,489
Cotton (Fibre)                             0          0      1.667      3,333      5,000      6,667        8,333      10,000       12,000      14,000      16,000      18,000      20,000      22,000      24,000      26,000       30,000
Others                                  400         400        750      1,100       1,450      1,800       2,150       2,500        2,750       3,000       3,250       3,500       3,750       4,000       4,250       4.500        5,000
TOTAL                                 91,400    215,400    224,917    234,558    244,328    254,229      264,265     274,439      284,737     294,787    304,992      315,355    325,881      336,575    347.439      358,479      377,148
Trarfic Volume (000 Ton-Kms)         1994          1995       1996       1997       1998       1999        2000         2001        2002         2003       2004        2005        2006        2007        2008         2009         2010
Petroleum Prodocts                    26,000     65,000     66,625     68,291     69,998     71,748       73,542      75,380       77,265      79,196      81,176      83,205      85,286      87,418      89,603      91,843       94,139
Grains                                 3,575      4,875      5,146       5,417      5,688      5,958       6,229        6,500       7,150       7,670       8,190       8,710       9,230       9,750      10,270       10,790      13,000
Fertilizers                                0          0        542       1,083      1,625     2,167        2,708       3,250        3,331       3,415       3,500       3.587       3,677       3,769       3,863        3,960       4,059
Cotton(Fibre)                              0          0        542       1,083      1,625      2,167       2,708        3,250       3,900       4,550       5,200       5,850       6,500       7,150       7,500        8,450       9,750
Others                                   100        100        188        275        363        450          535         625          688         750         813        575          935       1,000       1,063        1,125       1,250
TOTAL                                 29,675     69,975     73,042     76,149      79,298     82,490      85,725      89,005       92,333      95,581      98,878     102,228     105,630     109,087     112,599      116,168     122,198
Traffic Resenues (CFAF Millions)     1994          1995       1996       1997       1998       1999         2000        2001         2002        2003        2004        2005        2006        2007        2008        2009         2010
Petroleo Products                                 2,340      2,399      2,458       2,520      2,583       2,647       2,714        2,782       2,551       2,922       2,995       3,070       3,147       3,226        3,306       3,389
Grains                                              124        131        138         145        152         159         166          182         196         209         222         235         249         262         275          332
Fertilizers                                           0         13         27         40         54           67          81           83          85          87          89          92          94          96          99          101
Cotton(Fibre)                                         0         16         33         49         66           82          99          119         139         158         178         198         218         238         257          297
Others                                                3          6          9          12         15          17          20           22          24          26          28          30          32          34           36          41
TOTAL                                             2,468      2,566       2,665      2,767      2,869       2,974        3,080       3,188       3,295       3,403       3,513       3,626       3,740       3,856        3,974       4, 159
nIi
',sm r.anurr,.u,ns,x



Table C (cont'd)
New Traffic                                                                                                                                                                                              Trafic nouveau
Traffic Volume (Tons)              1994         1995      1996      1997       1998      1999        2000       2001        2002        2003       2004       2005       2006       2007       2008        2009        2010
Manganese                               0    20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000        20,000      20,000     20,000      20,000     20,000     20,000     20,000     20,000      20,000      20,000     20,000
Clnker                                  0    50,000    92,500   110,000   119,000   137,000    140,000    140,000    140,000    140.000   140,000    140.000    140,000    140.000    140.000    140,000    140,000
TOTAL                                   0    70,000   112,500    130,000   139,000    157,000     160,000     160,000     160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000      160,000     160,000
Traffic Volnue (O  Ton-Kns)       1994        1995       1996      1997       1998      1999        2000       2001        2002        2003      2004        2005       2006       2007       2008        2009        2010
Manganese                               0    25,200    25,200    25,200    25,200    25,200        25,200      25,200     25,200      25,200     25,200     25,200     25.200      25,200     25,200      25,200      25,200
Chnker                                  0    57,500   106,375   126,500    136,850   157,550      161,000     161,000     161,000    161,000    161,000    161,000    161,000    161,,000      100       161.000     161,000
TOTAL                                   0    82,700   131,575   151,700   162,050   182,750       186,200     186,200     186,200    186,200    186,200    186,200    186,200    186,200    186,200      186,200     186,200
Trafric Resenues (CFAF Millions)   1994         1995      1996      1997       1998      1999        2000       2001        2002        2003      2004        2005       2006       2007       2008        2009        2010
Manganese                                       428        428       428       428        428         428        428         428         428       428         428        428        428        428         428         428
Clinket                                         970       1,808     2,151     2,326     2,678       2,737       2,737       2,737      2,737      2,737      2,737       2,737      2,737      2,737       2,737       2,737
TOTAL                                          1,406     2,237      2,579     2,755     3,107       3,165       3,165      3,165       3,165      3,165      3,165      3,165       3,165      3,165       3,165       3,165
International Passengers Traffic                                                                                                                                                   Trafic International de Voyageurs
Trallic Vol.me (Passenger)         1994         1995      1996      1997       1998      1999        2000       2001        2002        2003      2004        2005       2006       2007        2008       2009        2010
Passenges                          715,500   357,750   477,257   610,200   758,400   921,857   1,044,776   1,065,657   1,086,971   1,108,710  1,130,885   1,153,502   1,176,572   1,200,104   1,224,106   1,248,588   1,273,560
TOTAL                              715,500   357,750   477,257   610,200   758,400   921,857   1,044,776   1,065,657   1,086,971   1,108,710  1,130,885   1,153,502   1,176,572   1,200,104   1,224,106   1,248,588   1,273,560
Traffic Volnue (000 Pass.-Kms)   1994         1995      1996      1997       1998      1999        2000       2001        2002        2003       2004       2005       2006       2007        2008        2009       2010
Passengers                         250,425    125,213   167,040   213,570   265,440   322,650     365,672     372,980    380.440     388,049    395,810    403.726    411,S00     420,036    428,437     437,006     445,746
TOTAL                             250,425    125,213    167,040   213,570   265,440   322,650     365,672     372,980     380,440    388,049    395,810    4W3.726    411.800    42,0036    428,437      437,006     445,746
Traffic Reenues (CFAF Millions)    1994        1995       1996      1997       1998      1999        2000       2001        2002        2003       2004       2005       2006       2007       2008        2009        2010
Passengers                                     1,753     2,339      2,990     3,716     4,517       5,119       5,222       5,326      5,433      5,541      5,652      5,765       5,881      5,998       6,110       6,240
TOTAL                                          1,753     2,339      2,990     3,716      4,517      5,119       5,222       5,326      5,433      5,541      5,652       5,765      5,881      5,998       6,118       6,240
Ii 






ANNEX 4.2
ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVITY
ANALYSIS






ANNEX 4.2
page I of 6
RESULTS OF THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table A: BASE CASE, ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND NET PRESENT VALUE OF THE REHABILITATION PROGRAM
e        t      3      ;    - IN 01 11.              96I'll 36Ef  ;19,980 -"l  4l.99 - -2XOl.- .20091, Li 302     2Ql31 ,' 2110, -WS   lQiO6>-             :10V0jf1,-.,009t  ZOIO1
otal savings                              5,121   6,169   7,058      6,984   7,338   7,595   7,826   8.007   8.190   8,376   8.566   8,758   8,953   9,152    9,354   9,625
Part of petroleum products (I')              748   1,099   1,449       1,800   1,920   2,040   2,160   2,225   2.291   2,357   2,423   2,488   2,554   2,620    2,685   2.817
Part of petroleum products (NI)             1,613   1,963   2,314     2,667   2,734   2,802   2,872   2,944   3,017   3,093   3,170   3.249   3,331   3,414    3,499   3,587
Part of Containers                           181      381     582       784      803     823     844      865     887      909     931     955      979   1,003    1,028   1,054
Part of cement                               200      201     280       385      348     358     378      398     419      441     462      485     508      532      556     581
Part ofclinker                               483      894   1,063      1150   1,323   1.352   1.352   1,352   1.352   1.352   1,352   1,352   1,352   1,352    1.352   1.352
Part of manganese                             146     146     146        146     146     146      146     1        146     146     146      146     146      146      146      14
Part of Passengers (1^)                      839      576     314         53      65      73       75      76       78      79      81       82      84       86       87       89
Part of passengers (N0)                      910      910     910          0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0        0
Investmentcosts                           22,221  12,270   4,530       1,502       0       0        0       0                           X     0    0 0  0  00 0                 I
[Net benefits (CFAF million)              -17,100  -6,101   2,528      5,482   7,338   7,595   7,826   8.007   8,190   8,376   8,566   8.758   8,9531 9,152           .3541 9.61
() I for Initemational anid N for Nationial
3ERR= 23%
! NPV  ( at 8%)-=              33,416        CFAF million
NPV (at 10%) =    25,833   CFAF million
NPV(at 12%)=    19,602   CFAFmillion
Table B: ANNUAL SAVING STREAMS PER MAIN TRAFFIC CATHEGORIES
+-,-hRj@aLT-Xe;ffijtita1gi2~] ;BI"51.7  1-                                   7Ol"I-P911,920021, 90 Zl;-2004t 7     2fA1   s5    l   1        '', -7L, 2Of>  -Mt
otal savings                              5,121   6 169   7,058      6.984   7,338   7,595   7,8261  8,007   8,190   8,376   8,566   87581  8,953   9,1521  9354   9,625
Part of petroleum products (l)               15%     18%     21%       26%      26%     27%      28o    28%     28%      28%     28%L  28%        29%      29%      29%     290/
Part of petroleum products (N)              32%      32%     33%/      38%      37%     37%      37%     37%     37%      37%     37%/    37%1  37%         37%1    37%      37-
PartofContainers                             4%       6%      8%        11%     11%     11%0    11%      11%      11%     11%/    11%      11ol  %         11%      11]-,    1l,o
Part of cement                               4%       3%      4/       6%   _  5%       5%       500     5o       5 %     5%      5%/      6%.     6%       6%       6%      60,
Part of clinker                              9%      14%/o   15/      16%      18%     18%      17'    17%     17%      16%     16/o   15l/.   15%        15%      14%0    14%|
Part of manganese                            3%        %      2%        2%       2%      2%      2%       2%     2-%|    2%        2%       2%      2%       2%       2%      2'S
Partof Passengers (1)                        16%      9%      4%         1%      1%.    1%,    II/         I  .1    1I    I%       1%      1%      1       1%       1%       I
Part of passengers (N)                       18%1   15%]   130           0%      0%j    0%l    0%l    0%            %      %| O% 0  %      0%      0%       0%       0%       05'
Investment costs                          22,221  12,270   4,530       1,502       0         l0     0       0        0 ol    0        0 ol   o3      o0         l       0 
iNet benefits (CFAF million)             1-7,100T-6.101       .528     5,482   7,3381 7,5951 7.8261 8,0071 8,1901 8,3761 8,5661 8.7581 8,9531 9,1521  9.354 9,625
Table C: TOTAL SAVING STREAMS PER MAIN TRAFFIC CATEGORIES
Passen5ers (N)
11  X  u,r#>t>55E4   >  . 11 Si ' -lr--%-ll   T              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Passengers ()  4,,
avings from (CFAF million)                                                  cMangan '
Petroleum products (l)                    14,235    2                            2% 5         _                             e     25odo
Petroleum products (N)                    20,520    36%                  Ck-r
lEontainers                             1l5,484  1 lO'Nl                 Chinker       _  
{{Cement                               1  2,7611    50/o||               1%                                                      ;Savings Distribution
gLCIinker                             11 8,890     150/ I                                                                   a
Manganese                                   1,140     2       1
IPassengers (1)                             1,981      30/
IPassengers (N)                             2,448     40/
|rotal savings                           || 57.459|  00%               Cement
A 12% rate is used to deflate savings, the same percentages
are obtainied when a rate of 8% or 10 % is uised.
Containers
|        t' Petrnole.m prod.cos (N)
36%



ANNEX 4.2
page 2 of 6
Table D: SAVINGS DISTRIBUTION BETWEEN THE PART ATTRACTED FROM THE ROAD
AND THE ONE RESULTING FROM RAIL COST REDUCTION
|avinigs from redtiction in rail transport co4   1.45      , 2021    6761         0   3,723
|Savinigs from attractiig back road traffic        3,276    4.3061  4,9501   41,204  53,736
A 12% rate is uised to deflate savings.
100%
70%
60%
50%
40%
1 0%
70%
1'95                 1996                  199)7              1998:0/I               Totl
* S-avings from reducion in rail transpon costs *Sa-ings frot auractin. back road iraffic
24-41   1   I 1tI 11 t1S lil I ..i  t*1. 4 lY.



ANNEX 4.2
page 3 of 6
Table E: RAIL TRANSPORT COST SAVINGS FOR SELECTED PRODUCTS "WITH THE PROGRAM"
Savings from transport of petroleum products (National)
Railways Transport Costs
Long-run marginal cost withouit the Programii                      24 5 CFAF per TKm
Long-rain marginial cost witl the Program                           19 6 CFAF per TKmi
Road Transport Costs                                               57.7 CFAF per TKm
liS  . 4 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JWs..a.>;-;:. ....:.i;[g2 Xl :Lt}2s:2"I 2S 199                           twS 200M1  2006.1-91Z!
Traffic (TKm million)
WithouttheProgram                         260    173       87        00     000     0 0     00      000       000                           00      00      00      00
With the Program                          65 0    66 6    68 3      70 0    71 7    73 5    75 4    77 3    79 2    81 2    83 2    85 3    87.4   89.6    91t8    94 1
Transport costs (CFAF million)
jWithoit the Program                     2.887   3,269   3,653    4.039   4,140   4,243   4,349   4.458   4,570   4,684   4,801   4,921   5.044   5,170   5,299   5,432
wih the Programi                          1,274   1,306   1,338    1,372   1,406   1,441   1,477   1.514   1,552   1,591   1.631   1,672   1.713   1,756    1,800  1t845
iCost Savings (CFAF million)          ]1  1,6131  1,9631  2,3141   2,6671  2,7341  2,8021 2,8721  2,9441 3,0171 3,0931  3,1701 3,2491 3,3311 3,4141  3,499   3,58
Savings from transport of petroleum products (International)
Railways Transport Costs
Lonig-isii margtiial cost without the Programn                     21 8 CFAF per TKin
Lonig-roini marginial cost with the Program                         17 4 CFAF per TKin
Road Transport Costs                                               46 3 CFAF per TKmn
1               .         ~-C           , \   D;5<>r.'.wi < . *.all-lyIi.#.a.lffltl    ............ lsl 81w - -zw1:2 wX1 ~ .1-B-Wl^,-2-  I  Z0061  201  :WI 75F =
Traffic (TKm million)                                                                 If
WithoLit the Programn                       28    19    9             0               0       0       0       0       0             7 0      0        0       0
Wilthile Program                            50      54      58       62      66      71      75      77     79      82      84      86      88      91       93      97
Transport costs (CFAF million)
Withotitthe Program                      1,615  2,038   2,461     2,883   3,075   3,268   3,460   3,565   3,670   3,776   3.881  3,986   4.092   4,197    4,302   4,5133
With the Program                           867    939   1,011    1,084   1,156   1,228   1.300   1.340   1,379   1,419   1.459   1,498   1.538   1,577    1617   1,696
LCost Savings (CFAF million)               748   1,099   1,449    1.8001  1,920   2,040   2,1601  2,225   2,2911  2,3571 2,4231  2,4881 2,5541  2,6201  2,6851  2,817
Savings from transport of clinker
|Railways Transport Costs
WLoig-rtiu iargiial cost wit0liot the Prograin                      21 5         CFAF per TK00
|Loig-rtih i t iargrial cost wit8 th Program                        17 2     CFAF  per TK    61
Road Transport Costs                                                25 6 CFAF per TKmn
|'Traff'ic(TKm million)                               l       l         l       l       l       l      l       l       l       l       l       l       l        l       l
WllwitoLit tile Prograin              11     0       01      o         o       01     0l      0l      0       oT      l    -0         l             0        l      o'
W|tli thle Prograinl    581   1061    1 27                           1371   1581   1611   1611   161|   1611   1611   161|   1611   161|   1611    1611   161|
[Transport costs (CFAF million)
WithoLit the Programn                     1472   2723   3238       3503   4033   4122   4122   4122   4122   4122   4122                  4122   4122    4122   4122
IWith the Program                          989 1"830   2176        2354   2710   2769   2769   2769   2769   2769    769 2769   2769   2769    2769   276
iCostSavings (CFAF million)           |1   483    894  10631    11501  13231  13521  13521  13521  13521  13521  13521  13521  13521  1352    1352   13521
Savings from transport of containers
Railways Transport Costs
Lonig-maun marginial cost withoLIt the Program                    27.1 CFAF per TKMn
Long-rUll marginial cost with the Program                          21.7 CFAF per TKtn
Road Transport Costs                                               43 5 CFAF per TKm
lil x> '- a-l<> ~~~~~~r7Mlqig7,lWsW7il9 lm  2we 1w1i,m5-20091   27a-:2-l-'2- tl
Traffic (TKm million)                 1       1       1
Wit|out the Programi                      33.4   22.3   I1         00 0|0   0o0           0 0     0o0     0.0     00      00      0.0     0.0 0o0         0.0 0o0
|'ith the Progran                         33.4   34.2   35 1       35.9   36.8   37.8   38.7   39.7   40.7   41.7   42.7   43.8   449    463
Sransport cosb (CFAF million)            1 .   3        5   3    7       8  .    2       8  .   8 4
Withotit the Program                     905.3  11238  1343.2   15635  16026  16426  16837  1725.8  1768.9  1813.2  18585  19050  19526  2                       21027
Witll the Program                       37243   742.4  760.9    779.9  .79-9 m  8194   8399  860.9  882.4  904.5  927.1  950.31  9740   9.4  10234  1048
ICost Savings (CFAF million)           E2                                                                                93114818719785



ANNEX 4.2
page 4 of 6
Savings from transport of cement
Railways Transport Costs
Long-run marginal cost without the Program                         27.3 CFAF per TKjn
Long-run marginal cost with the Program                            21.8 CFAF per TKin
Road Transport Costs                                               36.7 CFAF per TKm
Traffic (TKm million)                                                                                                 I                       i                      _
Without the Program                         37      24      1 2       (                     l      l      l       l     0    0               C        t
With the Program                            37      29     26        26      23      24      25      27      28      30     31      33      34      36       37      3S
Transport costs (CFAF million)                        .                              _
Without the Program                        999    832    857        949    858    882    931    981   1,033   1,085   1,139   1,194   1,251   1,309    1,369   1,43(
With the Program                           799    631      578      564    509    524    553    583    613    645    677    710    743    778               813    84
rost Savings (CFAF million)            |   007   2017   2801        3851   3481   3581   371   3981   4191   441            4621   4851   5081   5321    5561   581
Savings from transport of manganese
Railways Transport Costs
Lonig-riun marginal cost withouit the Program                      22.9 CFAF per TKiii
Lonig-riuni marginal cost with the Program                          18.3 CFAF per TKin
Road Transport Costs                                               25.6 CFAF per TKm
NS#.. ;+*  'illlS-, v H4
Traffic (TKm million)
Without the Program                          0       0       0      0         0       0       0       0       i       00                                   0      
With the Program                            20      20     20        20      20      20      20     20      20      20      20      20      20      20       20      2(
Transport costs (CFAF million)         _             1                                                                                                   _|I II I_I
Withoit the Program                        512    512    512        512    512    512    512    512|   512    512          512    512    512    512         512    512
With the Program                           366    366    366        366    366    366    366    366    366    366    366    366            366    366       366    36
Cost Savings (CFAF million)                146    14       1461     1461   1461   1461   1461   1461      146146  1           4146        14        146     146     146
Savings from transport of international passengers
Railways Transport Costs
Long-ran marginal cost without the Program                          17.3 CFAF per TKm
Long-rUll inarginal cost with the Program                           13.8 CFAF per TKm
[Road Transport Costs                                               14.0 CFAF per TKmi  
_ _ _ _ _ _-   _ _ _,  __ _ _ _ _                                                           .1@.         _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _ _       __ _ _
Traffic (PKm million)                                                  J                               I       I
Withoit the Program                        250     167      83        0       0       0       0       0     0 0              0      0       0               0
Withtile Program                           125    167    214        265    323    366    373    380    388    3961   404    412            420    428       437    446
Transport costs (CFAF million)
WitioLit the Program                     2,567   2,881   3,261    3,716  4,517   5,119   5,222   5,326   5433   5,541  5,652                     5,998    6,118  6,24(
Wittl the Programi                       1,728   2,305   2,947    3,663   4,453   5,046   5,147   5,250   5,355   5,462   5,571   5.683   5,797   5,912    6,031T  *,1
iCost Savings (CFAF million)              3841                       531    651    731    751    761    781    791    811    821    841    861               87
Savings from transport of national passengers
Railways Transport Costs
Lonig-rui marginal cost without the Program                        25.0 CFAF per TKmn
Lonlg-ruini margiial cost with the Program                         20.0 CFAF per TKin 
Road Transport Costs                                               12.0 CFAF per TKmn
Traffic (PKm million)                                                                          T                                                               t  
|WithOLit the Program                 1l    70      701    701         0      0      0                              l      l      l      l      l       l      |
With the Program                             0   0 0               0          0   00                0        0    0   0    0    0    0 0 
Transport costs (CFAF million)        i                                                                                                i
Without fhe Programi                     1,750   1,750   1,750        0       0       0        l      01                                         
With the Program                           840   840    840           0 0     0       0       0                      0       0       0       0          * h    - 0
[Cost Savings(CFAF million)            11   9101   9101   9101         l      l      l      l      l      l     l      l      l       2l    0l        I O



ANNEX 4.2
page 5 of 6
Table F: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
The ERR calculations depend mainly on four variables: reduction in rail costs, traffic volume, program investment costs and
rail long -run marginal costs. For each of these variables, respectively, a sensitivity factor has been applied: cost reduction
factor (CRF), traffic sensitivity factor (TSF), program cost sensitivity factor (PCSF) and transport costs sensitivity factor (TCSF).
Chart I describes how the ERR varies with different values of traffic volume and program costs; it gives the percentage of traffic
volume and program costs (compared to the foreseen ones) required to have an ERR higher than a given value: for well estimated
costs, traffic levels should be higher than 57% of the forecasts to have an ERR higher than 10% and 91% higher than the forecasts
to have an ERR higher than 20%. Chart 2 describes how ERR varies with traffic volume and rail transport costs .
CRF=80%, TCSF=100%
jTraffic sensitivity factor       l                        60%     65%     70%1   75%      80%     85%    90%      95%    I %
Program costs sensitivity factor   ERR=10%               103%    111%    119%  127%j  135%    143%j  151/o%   160%    167%|
ERR=15%       75%    81%    88%    94%1  100%   107%1  113%   120%    126%              132%
ERR=20%       61%    67%       72%    77%1   83%    88%        94%    99%  104%         110%
Chart I
1701%
160%
1 50%
*  1 40%               LE   0%
t  130%                   -
1 20%/
|  z  110%                                                    15_% _      __R-<R.'/. 
I9.%
CRF   80%
r,  70%
E   60%
50%
5 0%   55%    6 0%   65%   70%/  75%   801%  85%   90%/  95%   100%/
TraMc sensitivity Factor (1SF)
CRF=-80%, PCSF''00%
raffic sensitivity factor                        55%1   60%1   65%1   70%1   75%1   80%1    85%1   90%1   95%1   100%
Transport cost sensitivity factor  ERR=10%        94%    103%j  109%    115%1  119%1  123%1  126%1  129%    131%1  5 34%/I
ERR=15%       60%    74%       85%    93%1  100%    106%    111%    116%    119%        122%
ERR=20%       -       -        52%    66%    77%       85%     93%    99%    104%       109%
Chart 2
140%
i301/.
tV'
9i 0%
180%                                                                              Ih.r
I  50%                                         -
55%    60-/   65%    t0O%     75%    80%/6   85%    90%    95%    1001%
TraMt Sensitivity Fadtor ('SF)



ANNEX 4.2
page 6 of 6
ECONOMIC CALCULATION METHODOLOGY
The economic analysis of the Railway Rehabilitation Program is based on the following parameters:
D: demand of traffic in the year n (TKm)
r,,,,: percentage of demand (traffic) served by the railway without the program in year n
r,,: percentage of demand (traffic) served by the railway with the program in year n
c: rail transport costs with the program (CFAF/TKm)
(l+o).c: rail transport costs without the program, oL is a factor that quantifies inefficiencies and high operating
costs of current rail services (CFAF/TKm)
c': road transport costs (CFAF/TKm)
Transport costs are calculated as follows:
Without the Program
rw0.D             I(- rW.,).D
Rail part of the market                  Road part of the market
Transport costs: C,,.,,= (1+c).c.r,,,.D + c'.(-r,,.D
With the Program
r               ~~~rwD^^;:    i5 tt                      (I- r,J.Dl
Rail Part of the Market                     Road part of the market
Transport costs: C,, = c.r,, D + c '.(I- r,).D
Savings are:     S         =       CWO - C,
((I +cq).c.r ,,.D + c'.(1- r,J).D) - (c.r,,D + c'.(l- r,J.D)
(c' - c).(r,,, - r,,,) D + a.c.r,,, D
Si         +    S2
S 1: savings from new demand for which rail has a competitive advantage. It is calculated as follow:
S I = (road cost -rail cost with the progran) x part of the demand attracted back to rail
S2: savings from reduction in rail transport costs. It is calculated as follow:
S2 = (reduction in rail cost) x rail demand without the project
Demand
road
road to rail-                                         c'                             Cot
.... .. ...... ..                  - - ------ ----- --.--.--.--
rail
c         (I CE). c    c                              cost



ANNEX 4.3
COST DATA USED IN THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS






ANNEX 4.3
Page I of 2
COST DATA USED IN THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.   In the absence of fully-developed railway traffic costing systems for SICF and
SCFB, economic long-run marginal costs of rail transport have been estimated for the
main products transported:
*  national transport of petroleum products between Abidjan and Bouak6
* international transport of petroleum products between Abidjan and
Ouagadougou
*  transport of containers between Abidjan and Ouagadougou
*  transport of cement between Abidjan and Ouagadougou
*  transport of clinker between Abidjan and Ouagadougou
*  transport of manganese between Tambao and Abidjan
* international passengers transport between Abidjan and Ouagadougou
Based on partial cost information and mission estimates, these costs represent estimates.
2.    Economic long-run marginal costs of rail transport are incremental costs incurred
by the national economy when new traffic is introduced under the assumptions that: (a)
rail infrastructure is not overloaded (introduction of new traffic does not require
investment to increase infrastructure capacity) and (b) rail transport equipment
(locomotives, wagons, coaches) is fully-utilized by existing traffic (introduction of the
new traffic requires acquisition of new equipment).
3.    Economic long-run marginal costs for the purpose of the present analysis include
the following:
(a)  locomotive costs, composed of fuel and lubricants costs, maintenance (spare
parts and manpower) costs, and depreciation and interest;
(b)  wagon (freight traffic) or coach (passenger traffic) costs composed of
maintenance costs (spare parts and manpower) and depreciation and
interest;
(c)  crew costs;
(d)  miscellaneous operating costs; and
(e)  infrastructure costs (maintenance of track components).
4.    For the economic evaluation of the program, estimated "with-program" estimated
long-run marginal rail costs for the major traffic components are compared with road
transport costs (shown below), and or "without-program" costs. The detailed calculations
of estimated long-run marginal costs are in the Project File (Calculations of Long-run
Marginal Rail Transport Costs for Selected Products).



ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 2
COMPARATIVE RAIL AND ROAD TRANSPORT COSTS FOR SELECTED
PRODUCTS
,. :, ,: .:, ,:......   , .    ,     .,                      W.7          .      .. . -.- ...-a...a  :'-''  ''"-
..... ..    ......    .......h. ..........                                     . .k . ....... ...... %
f .'.  ..t;a ...''.''a. '...    ........                          .                            ,..
National petroleum products                         19.6                           57.7
International petroleum products                    17.4                          46.3
Clinker                                             17.2                          25.6
Containers                                          21.7                           43.5
Cement                                              21.8                          36.7
Manganese                                           18.3                          25.6
General international cargo                         26.7                          30.8
a,.                                                        .    , ,   a ..  ,.a   ... a,,.,.,,.. . ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . . . . . .
International Passengers                            13.8                           14.0
Source: Mission estimates and DCGTx
ROAD TRANSPORT COSTS FOR SELECTED PRODUCTS
soFi-. .:sf - ~ :F-,:-: . ... ... :.f.--...:  ....  :` ,.,;   ,         -,    '   " ' " '   W    "
Tra..,,,..,.,....,., mffic Categori...
National Petroleum      1 00,000  Mercedes LK262      437.4      Citerne 20,000   16.6      1 35.2         69.0
Products (50%)
National Petroleum      100,000  Mercedes LK262       437.4     Citerne 30,000    24.9      139.3          46.3
Products (50%)
International           46,000  Mercedes LK262        437.4      Citerne 30,000    24.9     139.3          46.3
Petroleum Products
Containers              32,000  Mercedes LK262        437.4      Ridelles CU     26         128.5          43.5
Clinker                 50,000  Mercedes LK262        437.4 ..tallique CU        50        202.7           25.6
Cement                  35,000  Mercedes L1718        316.7           -IS                     -36.7
Manganese               20,000  Mercedes LK262        437.4    MCtalIique CU     50        202.7           25.6
International General   51,085  Mercedes L1718        316.7                      1 S                       32.5
Cargo (50%)
International General   51,085  Mercedes LK262        437.4      Ridelles CU     30         128.5          29.0
Cargo (50%)                   .         .               .                     .  . .   . .
(*) tonnage of 1995
Source: DCGTx



ANNEX 4.4
FINANCIAL RESULTS OF SICF, 1989/90-1993






ANNEX 4.4
page I of 4
Resultats Financiers SICF, 1989/90-1993
(en millions de FCFA)
1989/1990    1991       1992      1993
(16 mois)
TOTAL RECETTES                             13,929     11,888     10,560     8,486
Prestation Services                        10,785      7,421     7,129      5,633
Production Pieces/Stocks                       62        41         64         26
Divers                                        188       815        875        407
Quote part/amorti. viree au compte res.     2,528      3,587     2,548      2,439
Produits financiers                            66        24          8          7
Contribution entretien voie                   300          -          -          -
TOTAL CHARGES                              13,912     12,942     12,677    10,365
Exploitation                                3526       4.251     3.980      250
Carburant                                   1,344      1,635      1,526      1,144
Electricit&Eau                                510       401        357        329
Pieces de Rech. matieres                      801      1,127      1,164       568
Prestations exterieures                       817       788        637        474
Charges diverses                               54       300        296         45
Personnel                                   6.549      5,440     5.518      4.741
Appointement/Traitement/Salaires            4,581      3,740      3,767     3,263
Primes/lndemnites/Allocation                 971        892       1,069       770
Charges sur salaires/autres                   997       808        682        708
Ilmp6ts/Tax                                     6         16        20          7
Frais financiers divers                       24         35         41         44
Dotation aux amortissements                 3,536      2,623     2,595      2,487
Dotation Prov. reglementees                  271        577        523        471
Dotation Prov. pour perte et repreciation       -          -          -        55
Profit/(Perte) d'exploitation                  17    (1,054)    (2,117)    (1,879)
BIC (forfait)                                (36)        (1)       (1)       (29)
Perte nette                                  (19)    (1,055)    (2,118)    (1,908)
Source: Rapports du Commissaire aux Comptes sur la SICF 1991, 1993
6f3O  S I 4I PM. SICF XIS CEG.CI



ANNEX 4.4
page 2 of 4
Situation des passifs de la SICF au 31 mars 1995
(en millions de FCFA)/
Arrears Owed by SICF on 31 March 1995
(in million CFAF)
Dettes a l'egard:             Montant/               Debt owed:
Amount
Des organismes sociaux                     Retirement funds
- CGRAE                              1,169  -CGRRAE
- CNPS                                311  - CNPS
Sous-total                           1,480 Sub-total
De la DGI                                  Directorate General of Taxes
- imp6ts sur salaires                1,953  - Taxes on salaries
- imp6ts fonciers                      66  - Taxes on real estate
- patentes                             71  - Patentes
- TVA                                  21  - VAT
- droit de timbres                     20  - Stamp Duties
sous-total                           2,131 Sub-total
Du personnel                               Personnel:
- secours apres-deces                  50  - burial contributions
- frais medicaux                      350  - medical costs
- rent viageres                        25  - life annuities
sous-total                             425 Sub-total
Des tiers                                  Third Parties
- fournisseurs                       1.730  - Suppliers
- sinistres                          1,990  - Accident victims
- litiges                             193  - Legal fees
sous-total                           3,913 Sub-total
De la CFD                                  Caisse Francaise de Dev.
- Emprunt 1                           675  - Loan I
- Emprunt 2                           600  - Loan 2
sous-total                           1,275 Sub-total
TOTAL                                9,224 GRAND TOTAL
S13S. 4"* PM. SICF XLS. ILAN.CI



ANNEX 4.4
page 3 of 4
Resultats Financiers SCFB, 1989/90-1994
(en millions de FCFA)
1989/1990    1991      1992       1993      1994
(18 mois)
TOTAL RECETTES                             9,306      5,426     5,154      5,417     6,201
Prestation Services                        7,024      3,903     3,663      3,385     3.822
Production Pieces/Stocks                      76        145         9        139       167
Divers                                       533       716        779       783       1,127
Quote part/amorti. viree au compte res.    1,595       634        680      1,086      1.080
Produits financiers                           78        28         23        24          5
TOTAL CHARGES                              9,716      6,031     6,100      6,297     7,149
Exploitation                               2.472      1.748     .129      1.551      1.983
Carburant                                  1,062       648        601       685        842
Electricite/Eau                              203       116         94        113       141
Pieces de Rech. matieres                     295       406        317       299        260
Prestations exterieures                      492       306        339       212        231
Charges diverses                             420       272        378       242        509
Personnel                                  52         3.368     3.364      3.400     3.562
Appointement/Traitement/Salaires           3,030      1.970     2,051      2,042     2,153
Primes/indemnites/Allocation               1,934       866        757       769        803
Charges sur salaires/autres                  888       532        556       589        606
ImpIots/Tax                                   17         12        26         11         2
Frais financiers divers                        0         4         52        46         22
Dotation aux amortissements               1L375        899        929      1 289      1.580
Dotation Prov. reglementees                1,225       746        886      1,260      1,265
Dotation Prov. pour perte et repreciation    150       153         43        29        3 15
Perte nette                                (410)      (605)     (946)      (880)      (948)
Source: Cellule PASSECT Ouagadougou
PM SICF XLS CEG-BU



ANNEX 4.4
page 4 of 4
Situation des passifs de la SCFB au 31 juillet 1995
(en millions de FCFA)/
Arrears Owed by SCFB on 31 July 1995
(in million CFAF)
Montant/            Observations
Amount               Comments
Dettes envers l'Etat Bourkinabe
- IUTS                               1,917
- Fond de l'habitat                      2
Sous-total                            1,919
Foumisseurs                             506
Dettes envers CNSS                     3045
Dettes envers le personnel               30 conges non pris et autres
Impots de la Cote d'lvoire               21
TOTAL                                 5,521
WASI  IADAM,. ICFXI. WLAN-U



ANNEX 4.5
FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF SITARAIL OPERATIONS






SITARAIL
Income Statements
for the years ended september 30
(constant CFAF million)
Source: SITARAIL             1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06  2006/07  2007/08  2008/09  2009/10  2010/11
Revenue:
Freight                       8,108   8.459   8,916   9,411    9,871   10,397   10,938   11,311   11,689   12,071   12,458   12.849   13,246   13.648   14,055   14,666
Passengers                    1,753   2,339   2,990   3,716   4,517    5.119    5,222    5,326    5,433    5,541    5.652    5,765    5,881    5,998    6.118    6,240
New traffic                   1,406   2,237    2,579   2.755    3.107    3,165    3,165   3.165   3.165   3,165    3,165    3,165    3,165    3.165    3,165    3,165
Operating Revenues           11,267   13,034   14,484   15,882   17,495   18,682   19,325   19,803   20,287   20,778   21,275   21,780   22,292   22,811   23.338   24,072
Expense:
Salaries                      5,521    5,521    5,557    5,561    5,609    5,615    5,618    5,620    5,623    5,625    5,628    5,630    5,633    5,635    5,638    5.642
Materials                     2,296    2,755    3,243    3,782    6,375    4,289    4,735    4,955    4,920    7,242    5,013    5,123    5,345    5,341    8,176    5,486
Other                         3,099    2,767    2,790    2,549    2,423    2,308    2,685    2,640    2,811    3,022    3,197    3,374    3,571    3,856    4,265    5,093
Working Expenses              10,916   11,044   11,591   11,892   14,407   12,212   13,038   13,215   13,354   15,888   13,838   14,127   14,549   14,832   18,079   16,220
Operating Result                352    1,990   2,894    3,990    3,088    6,470    6,287    6,588    6,933    4,889    7,438    7,653    7,743    7,980    5,259    7,852
Depreciation & Provisions       742      742     742      742   (1,466)    450     450      450      450   (1,799)    529     529      529      529   (2,116)    529
Concession fee                  831    1,441    2,163    3,437    3,800    4,750    4,901    5,308    5,392    5,268    5,221    5,167    4,952    4,735    3,995    2,578
Net Operating Result          (1,221)   (193)    (11)   (188)    755    1,271       936     830    1,091    1,420    1,688    1,957   2,262    2,715    3,381    4,744
Interest expenses                 0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        1       2        3
Extraodinary items (net)        350      350     350      300     300      300     300      300      300     300      300     300      300      300     300      300
Net Income ( Loss)           (1,571)   (543)   (361)   (488)    455        971     636      530      791    1,120    1,388    1,657    1,962    2,414    3,079    4,441
10 I1'9 1 ,   00 PM. SOOn fl. 'ITs iiA.....t



SITARAIL
Balance Sheets at september 30
(constant CFAF million)
Source: SITARAIL               1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011
ASSETS
Cash                           1,642    1,498    1,611    1,705     598    1,828    2,816    3,801    4,975    4,268    6,133    8,236   10.711   13,548   14,509   21,009
Accounts Receivable              793      891      958    1.014    1,081    1,130    1,175    1,206    1,238    1,270    1,302    1,335    1,368    1,401    1.435    1,486
Inventories                      684      880    1,123    1,260    1,320    1,488    1,591    1,574    1,610    1,610    1,636    1,702    1,699    1,778    1,756      0
Current assets              3,119    3,269    3,691    3.978    2,999    4,446    5.583    6,581    7,824    7,148    9,071   11,273   13,778   16,728   17,700   22,495
Fixed assets                   1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1.200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Accumulated depreciation           0      300      600     900    1,200    1,200    1.200    1,200    1.200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Net Fixed assets               1,200      900      600     300        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Deferred Charges                   0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Other assets                       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Total Assets                   4,319    4,169    4,291    4,278    2,999    4,446    5,583    6,581    7.824    7,148    9,071   11,273   13,778   16,728   17,700   22,495
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities              449      400      441     475      508      534      585      604      605      609     615      630      644      650      657      480
Long Term Debt                     0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0
Provisions                       442      883    1,325    1,766       0      450      899    1,349    1,799        0      529    1,058    1,587    2,116       0      529
Paid in Capital                5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
Retained Earning (Loss)            0   (1,571)  (2,114)  (2,475)  (2,963)  (2,508)  (1,537)   (901)   (372)    420    1,539    2,927    4,585    6,547    8,962   12,042
Current income                 (I,571)   (543)   (361)   (488)    455        971      636      530      791    1,120    1,388    1,657    1,962    2,414    3,079    4,441
Total Equity                3,429    2,886    2,525    2,037    2,492    3,463    4,099    4,628    5,420    6,539    7,927    9,585   11,547   13,961   17,040   21,484
Liabilities and Equity         4,319    4,169    4,291    4,278    2,999    4,446    5,583    6,581    7,824    7,148    9,071   11,273   13,778   16,727   17,698   22,492
0 h
1. 1715. 13.                                                                                                                -r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
I~~ 17S3.430 PM, SflA.FI4XLS. ,.,.,,,                                                                                        ,ta.Jm~~~~~~~oe 



SITARAIL
Fund Statements
(constant CFAF million)
Source: SITARAIL             1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2004/05  2005/06  2006/07  2007/08  2008/09  2009/10  2010/11
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Income                    (1,571)   (543)   (361)   (488)    455        971      636     530      791    1,120    1,388    1,657    1,962    2,414    3,079    4,441
Depreciation & Provisions        742     742      742      742   (1.466)    450      450     450      450   (1,799)    529      529      529      529   (2,116)    529
Funds from Operations        (830)    199      381     253   (1,012)   1,421    1,086     979    1,241    (679)   1,917    2,186    2,491    2,943     963    4,970
Borrowings '                  19,083    9,714    3,584      0        0        0        0    5,000       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0
Equity Capital                  5,000
Financing                   24,083    9,714    3.584      0        0        0       0    5,000        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
Total Sources                 23,253    9,913    3,965     253   (1,012)   1,421    1,086    5.979    1,241    (679)   1,917    2,186    2.491    2,943    963    4,970
USES OF FUNDS
Plant & Equipment Additions
Owned by SITARAIL            1,500        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
Owned by SIPF (Rehab.)       19,083    9,714    3,584      0       0        0        0    5,000       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
Working Capital                2,670     199      381      253   (1,012)   1,421    1,086    979    1,241    (679)   1,917    2,186    2,491    2,943      963    4,970
Total Uses                    23,253    9,913    3,965     253   (1,012)   1,421    1,086    5,979    1,241    (679)   1,917    2,186    2,491    2,943    963    4,970
at Lomas held by SIPF
,wrn,s,.muh4n.n ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,t
0  4h
M"x~~~~~~~~rAffr.rKXM- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~        vu



SITARAIL
ProForma Ratio Analysis
1995/96  1996,!97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02 | 2002/03  2003/04 | 2004/05  2005/06 | 2006/07  2007/08  2008/09  2009/10 |2010/11
Efficiency:
Revenue turnover                  9.39    14.48    24.14    52.94              -             -        -        -                 -        -        -         -        -
Receivables tumover (days)          25       25       24       23       22       22       22       22        22       22       22       22       22       22       22        22
Inventory tumover (days)            22       24       28       29       27       29       30       29        29       28       28       28       27       28       27         0
Number Employees                 1,815    1.815    1,815    1.815    1,815    1,815    1,815    1.815    1,815    1,815    1,815    1.815    1,815    1,815    1.815    1,815
rraffic U nits/Employee (000)     273      329       375      419      471      507      523      535      547      559       571      584      597      610      623      64(0
Pricing 
Net ton x km (million)             371      431      467      495      532      555      576       590      604      618      633      648      663      678      693       717
@ CFAF                          21.9      19.6     19.1     19.0     18.5     18.7     19.0     19.2     19.4      19.5     19.7     19.8     20.0     20.1     20.3     20.5
Million Passenger x km             125      167      214      265      323      366      373       380      388      396      404      412      420      428      437       446
 CFAF                          14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0      14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0     14.0      14.0     14.0
Profitability:
Working Ratio                     97%      85%      80%      75%      82%       65%      67%      67%      66%      76%      65%      65%       65%      65%      77%      67%
Operating Ratio                  III %    101%     100%     101 %     96%       93%      95%      96%      95%      93%      92%      91%      90%       88%      86%      80%
Return on Fixed Assets         -102%    -21.4%    -1.8%   -62.8%      .        .        -        -         -        .        .        .        -        -
Liquidity:
Working Capital                 2,670    2,869    3.250    3,503    2,492    3,912    4,998    5,977    7,218    6.539    8,456   10,643   13,134   16,078   17,042   22,016
Current Ratio('"                 6.95      8.18     8.37     8.37     5.91     8.33     9.55    10.90    12.92    11.74    14.75    17.89    21.38    25.75    26.93    46.88
Quick Ratio`                     5.43      5.98     5.82     5.72     3.31     5.54     6.83     8.29    10.26      9.10    12.09    15.19    18.74    23.01    24.26    46.88
Capitalization:
Debt to Equity                   0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%      0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%     0.0%
(*) current assets to current liabilities
(**) cash plus accounts receivable to current liabilities
IU17  430  M. SO IE 5 711   3 1. L3nu



MAP SECTION






ERD 27278
9 6                                                           s                              2                             0                             2                                                            6
r--_   vorom-  1/                                                   ~~~~~~~COTE  D'IVOIRE  /  BURKINA  FASO
,--       0,, ' ]    bo             Dorl+'RAILWAY REHABILITATION
<2ru                                       . *     !D.,                       N I G E R                                  PROGRAM
MALI                                                                                                         *aaca             "~N 
/_.J    -rq o   ro9  uJPAVED ROADS
FDO*     O A D 9 ,   Pl   /   O VI  RAILROADS
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
jl12                                                                                                         /                                                                                                            _ ~YX  _/ WomblSor  iX  D  ;:DJ-JE  \  S  \  \  * NATION AL CAPITAL
K-N.. \                                                                                   DE                                                                          PARTMENT CAPITALS
RCOTE D'IVOIRE)
4)'N                                                                                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS
O)  ,I   BObO                                                                                                                                             (B'  t  )   W   \?O-O <-M  \  18URKINA FASO)
.             \ r~ oaara   i-'                  *e )omoe '~J'                                        d      rt                                                               0    OTHER TOWNS
r.      -           EarJ S 4a%s0 !   gbOniara                                                                                                           M )                  RIVERS
te S   -                                                tTIn.frelv                                   6    'X                                            / o  9  T -  i , _I_ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Od--neD              =udol        g:0Frn                           \  i                                                         J                         B E N I No
7d    OEN                                                                                                                                                                                   0              1 00          200 KILDMETERS
G U I N E A 
1._   ODI nt   /  t}  ,,  T O G O  t   ]            sT Eaund:- . cla'p d. n--,ag hn. Fh , ni bTh. W,E,ia, E   GaPh
<   <At  /   Kon,   tL:r:m=ndougou                    1,                                               \ k              g                                      sns ^vdgmFnt or +e2e9a1 ,tph,, of ony  annud8ina, aniti*oRalrt,iu.oran' oa :n>'. rony.naonnei,
85~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N rV                                                                                                        anaca.pranceol,ur dEdouR,nEaanda8-   ;,. 6
Roan"         Rtuouk     PriLo                  f                  G  H A N A
2                 gMan                          act,.o  S'    '=/   M:' lu l ei   Z   ,                                                                                                            ALEsITANQIA         I
M..           >>  5=9             fr              .     g           \                                                                  _                            ,                     \.,  AV
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >   '-7'8e-b 
B...  D ... k,.                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL         'G
tLTobou
A  ~ ~     '~"'0'1          U   ~BEN-N
8 ~ ~~  ~~                             ~~                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    Vi  " ZC
Ltan I BAERIAA                                                                                                                                                              Eb I. NA   HI
L.h...-.J 
r".b.                                                                                                                                    Ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* 0ERIA'
SE'E6nEER I L9T









i;   4                 ; -               i i    -
-.                                I    I                                              x                                                              ;           l         
-              ,                                   . ,                                    - . q     -
-       ..    FI:  i- :                                    , : 1  i



