Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 25554
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
C6TE D'IVOIRE
RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2786-IVC)
March 12, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency
Currency Unit      =        CFA Franc (CFAF)
(Exchange rate effective October 2002)
US$1.0             =        CFAF 670
CFAF I million     =        US$1,493
SDR1.0                      US$1.323
Fiscal Year of Borrower
Govemment: January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BOAD          Banque Ouest Africaine de D6veloppement/West African Bank
AFD           Agence Francaise de Developpement
CI            C6te d'Ivoire
EIB           European Investment Bank
ERR           Econormc rate of return
GDP           Gross domestic product
ICB           International competitive bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
MITC          Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Communications
RAN           R6gie des Chemins de Fer Abidjan-Niger
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCFB          Soci6t6 des Chemins de Fer du Burkina
SICF          Soci6t6 Ivoinenne des Chemins de Fer
SIPF          Railway Patnmony (landlord) Company - Cote d'Ivoire
SITARAIL      Concessionaire Operating Abidjan-Ouagadougou Rail System
SOE           State-owned enterprise
SOPAFER-B     Railway Patrimony (landlord) Company - Burkina Faso
Director-General, Operations Evaluation             Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department          Mr. Nils Fostvedt (Acting)
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation             Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                        Mr. Binyam Reja



The World Bank
Washington, D C. 20433
USA
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 12, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Performance Assessment Report on
C6te d'Ivoire Railway Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2786-IVC)
Attached is the Performance Assessment Report (PAR) for the above project, for which a
credit in the amount of SDRI 3.5 million (US$20 million equivalent) was approved on November 28,
1995. The project closed on June 30, 2001, one year behind schedule. The final total disbursed was
SDR12.5 million, or 93 percent of the original amount. SDR1.0 million was canceled. Cofinancing
was provided by France, Belgium, the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the West African
Development Bank (BOAD).
The project's objective was to contribute to the revitalization of railway transport service in
order to promote competitiveness and regional integration through the rehabilitation of railway
infrastructure and equipment. Specifically, the project was designed to support the concessioning to a
private operator of the state-managed railways linking the port of Abidjan with Ouagadougou in
Burkina Faso, and to act as a catalyst in attracting other investors. This concessioning was the first for
a railway in Sub-Saharan Africa.
The project consisted of three components: (a) infrastructure rehabilitation (track renewal and
repairs, ballasting, bridge and culvert repairs, installation of weighing equipment, and building
repairs); (b) equipment rehabilitation and acquisition (locomotives, rolling stock, maintenance and
telecommunications equipment, computers), and (c) training.
The project was part of a program that also involved the connecting railway in Burkina Faso.
A parallel World Bank transport project for Burkina provided support for that part of the program. The
concessioning process was launched in February 1993, bid award took place in July 1993, and the
Concession Agreement, after extensive negotiations, was signed in December 1994.
The project objective was achieved. The Abidjan-Ouagadougou railway is well managed,
carries much more traffic than before privatization (freight traffic, the main revenue generator, has
tripled), and its operational performance has improved (although rail service within Cote d'Ivoire has
practically stalled since September 2002 due to the ongoing conflict). Thanks to the project-financed
investments, the railway's infrastructure and equipment are in better condition. Staff productivity has
improved, exceeding appraisal expectations, in part because of the traffic increase, and in part because
the railway's staff today is 50 percent smaller than its pre-privatized size. The concessioning process
paid special attention to providing adequate compensation to staff declared redundant. This included a
14-month termination grant, partially financed under bilateral French assistance, immediate pension
irrespective of age, and housing for many of the redundant personnel. Benefits for the staff retained by
the private operator also improved markedly, including more vacation time, better medical insurance,
and better working equipment and conditions. The private operator also is piloting an HIV/AIDS
awareness program under an ongoing Bank's HIV/AIDS project for Sub-Saharan Africa.



2
The concessioning operation has resulted in the elimination of budget subsidies to lhe
railways. The concessionaire runs freight as well as passenger services on a fully commercial basis.
The two governments are shareholders (15 percent of the capital each) and should receive revenues
from this operation. Railway workers also are shareholders. The railway became a profit-making
enterprise in 2001, and after two more years of profits, stock will be offered to the public via Cote
d'Ivoire's exchange. The economic rate of return of project-financed investments is estimated at 22
percent, about the same as at appraisal.
As a pilot experience in the region, there were some issues with the design of the concession.
The most important of these was the creation of a government-owned railway patrimony company (the
"landlord" company), from which the private operator leases infrastructure and equipment. The
arrangement proved cumbersome, although it has improved since the start of the concession. The
Concession Agreement was renegotiated, extending the concession from 15 to 30 years, creating an
Investment Fund, and adjusting the level and allocation of the fees paid by the concessionaire.
The PAR rates the project outcome satisfactory, institutional development high, and
sustainability likely. The PAR further rates Bank performance highly satisfactory and borrower
performance satisfactory. Sustainability is rated likely rather than highly likely because the railways'
financial performance has been weaker than expected, profitability took longer to achieve, and some
uncertainty exists about future traffic demand.
Several lessons emerge from this project:
> The design of railway concessions should aim to avoid establishing government-owned
patrimony/landlord corporations. Such corporations tend to interfere with the management of
the concession without clear gains for the government. Selling, rather than leasing the
equipment to the concessionaire leads to a cleaner concession arrangement, and further
obviates the need for a patrimony corporation.
>  The Bank, with its knowledge of worldwide experience with railway concessions, has an
important role to play in helping countries design and implement railway concessions and
contributing finance, especially in regions like Sub-Saharan Africa, where attracting private
investors to the infrastructure sectors is especially difficult.
>  Renegotiation of infrastructure concessions should be avoided or deferred as much as possible,
since it undermines transparency and credibility of the concession system. Concession
agreements ideally should define the circumstances under which renegotiations will take
place, and the process to be followed.
>  The delicate issue of staff redundancy in infrastructure concessions can be effectively
managed by adequately compensating staff made redundant, providing pensions under
exceptional early retirements and outsourcing company work to displaced staff.
Attachment                                                      /-,



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first,
to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons
drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations. In
selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are
relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have
requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation cnteron (more information is available on the OED website:
http./lworldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Emciency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest,
Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ......................................................v
Key Staff Responsible ......................................................v
Preface ...................................................... vii
1. Introduction.                                                                                       1
2.  Project Objectives and Design .....................................................2
3.  Implementation .....................................................2
4.  Performance .......................................................3
Traffic .......................................................3
Operations .......................................................4
Finance.                                                                                       4
Labor Problems.                                                                                5
Suspension of Bank Disbursements .......................................................5
5.  Issues in Railway Concessioning .......................................................5
Privatization Approach .......................................................5
Bidding Process ......................................................S5
Capital Structure .......................................................6
Landlord Company .......................................................6
Regulations .......................................................8
Investments.                                                                                   9
Social Issues.                                                                                 9
Renegotiations .......................................................9
Performance Monitoring ......................................................                 10
6.  Ratings ......................................................                                    10
7.  Lessons ......................................................                                    11
Appendix: Social Issues in the Concessioning of C8te d'Ivoire Railways .............................. 13
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ......................................................                      15
Annex B: Borrower Comments ......................................................                     16
This report was prepared by Heman Levy (Consultant), under the supervision of Binyam Reja (Task
Manager). William Hurlbut edited the report. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                         ES*                         PPAR
Outcome                        Satsfactory                  Sabisfactory                 Satsfactory
Sustainability                 Highly Likely                  Likely                       Likely
Insttutional                      High                         High                         High
Development Impact
Bank Performance             Highly SaUsfactory          Highly Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 SaUsfactory
* The Implementation Complebon Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank. The
Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently venfy the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                         Task Manager/Leader          Division Chief/        Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                         Brigitta Mitchell          James Wright         Olivier Lafourcade
Completion                     Jean-Noel Guillossou/      Maryvonne Plessis-        Mamadou Dia
Claude de Isaac              Fraissard






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Cote d'Ivoire Railway
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2786-IVC), for which a credit in the amount of SDR13.5 million
(US$20 million equivalent) was approved on November 28, 1995. The project closed on June 30,
2001, one year behind schedule. The final total disbursed was SDR12.5 million, or 93 percent of the
original amount. SDR1.0 million was canceled. Cofinancing was provided by France, Belgium, the
European Investment Bank (EIB), and the West African Development Bank (BOAD).
The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluations Department (OED) based upon a
review of the President's Reports, Staff Appraisal Report (Report no. 14919, October 10, 1995)),
Implementation Completion Report (Report no. 23573, January 31, 2002), transcripts of Board
Proceedings, project correspondence files, Bank documents on other transport projects, and other
Bank and non-Bank materials. In June 2002, an OED mission visited C6te d'Ivoire to discuss the
project with relevant government officials, beneficiaries, and representatives from the private sector,
labor and trade organizations, and cofinanciers. OED also discussed the project with Bank staff in
charge of the project at headquarters. The kind cooperation and invaluable assistance from all the
people consulted are gratefully acknowledged.
A PPAR of a Bank project in Burkina Faso that supported the Burkina portion of the Abidjan-
Ouagodougou railway is being issued separately.
The assessment agrees, with one minor exception, with the ratings of the implementation
completion report, and confirms the OED's assessment of the ICR. The PPAR adds value to the ICR
by focusing on the design of railway concessions, and elaborating on lessons learned. The project
supported the first railway concessioning to a private operator in Subsaharan Africa, and the important
lessons it offered were of significant interest for a PPAR.
The ongoing conflict in C6te d'Ivoire is likely to affect performance of the railway in the near
term, and may jeopardize some of the prospects described in this report.
Following standard procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the relevant government
officials and agencies concerned for their review and comments. The comments received are attached
in Annex B.






1.     Introduction
1.1    As was the case in practically all of Sub-Saharan Africa, the 1980s for Cote d'Ivoire was a
"lost decade" for economic development. Moreover, the decline continued during the early 1990s. At
the peak of the cnsis, the 6-year penod 1987-93, the country's GDP fell more than 30 percent.
1.2    Key factors in the economic decline were an overvalued currency, the collapse of cocoa and
coffee prices, the country's key exports, and the increasing inefficiency of a large public enterprise
sector. Early in the 1990s the government sought to reduce the heavy weight on the budget posed by
deficit-ridden state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The government strategy focused on privatization of
the SOEs and included improvement of incentives for private investment and creation of more private
national shareholders.
1.3   In practice, it was the devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 that marked the real start of
economic recovery as it removed uncertainty and significantly restored investment confidence and
competitiveness. This made it more attractive for private capital and operators to become interested in
the SOEs being offered for privatization.
1.4    Railways are not generally viewed as obvious candidates for privatization. Even less attractive
are railways that carry relatively small volumes of traffic, such as the 1,250-kilometer line connecting
the port of Abidjan in C6te d'Ivoire with Burkina's capital Ouagadougou. This had been a well run
and financially profitable railway (the Regie Abidj an-Niger, or RAN, railway) until the mid- 1970s.
From that time, poor management, badly chosen investments, ill-conceived emphasis on low-priced
passenger services and increasmg road competition had wreaked havoc with the railways' efficiency
and finances. In 1989, for political reasons, the RAN was split into two separate state-owned
companies. This separation exacerbated the operating inefficiencies of the line, diversion of traffic to
the roadways, and worsened financial performance.
1.5    Faced with this crisis, and defying conventional wisdom, the two government-owners in July
1992 decided to reunify and privatize railway operations on a concession basis. This was the first time
in Sub-Saharan African, and one of the early expenences anywhere in the developing world, with
concessioning a railway to private operators.
1.6   IDA initially supported the launching of the railway privatization process through the CBte
d'Ivoire Privatization Support Project' and the Burkina Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment
Program (Credit 2332-BUR). Advice provided by IDA (and cofinancier's) staff were instrumental in the
design of the concession. The project under review provided further support, especially to finance the
rehabilitation of railway assets, and help with the design of the concession contractual arrangements.
1.7    After having practically halted most lending for railways in the mid-I 980s, this project was
also one of the first Bank operations signaling the refocusing of railway lending toward privatization
and concessions. It was also the first Bank project in the transport sector in COte d'Ivoire since the
Bank had shifted its lending focus toward policy-onented operations in the mid- 1980s.2
1. This project, approved in May 1992, intended to "assist the government reduce its holdmgs and alleviate the recurrent
administrative and financial burden of the SOEs."
2. OED: Cote d'lvoire - Country Assistance Review, June 14, 1999.



2
2.     Project Objectives and Design
2.1    The project's objective was to contribute to the revitalization of railway transport service in
order to promote competitiveness and regional integration through the rehabilitation of railway
infrastructure and equipment. Specifically, the project was designed to support the concessioning to a
private operator of the state-managed railways linking the port of Abidjan with the Burkina Faso
border, and to act as a catalyst in attractng other investors.
2.2    The project consisted of three components: (a) infrastructure rehabilitation (track renewal and
repairs, ballasting, bridge and culvert repairs, installation of weighing equipment, and building
repairs); (b) equipment rehabilitation and acquisition (locomotives, rolling stock, maintenance and
telecommunications equipment, computers), and (c) training.
2.3    The project was part of a program that also involved the connecting railway in Burlina Faso.
The program financed rehabilitation of railway equipment owned by railway landlord companies in
C6te d'Ivoire and Burkina (SIPF and SOPAFER-B, respectively). A parallel Bank transport project for
Burkina provided financing and supported the Burkina side of the railway.3 The concessioning process
was launched in February 1993, bid award took place in July 1993, and the Concession Agreement,
after extensive negotiations, was signed in December 1994. The project under review was processed in
parallel with the concessioning process.
2.4    The project mvolved substantial cofinancing. Complementing IDA were five other financiers,
including the railway concessionaire, that were expected to provide 58 percent of total project cost
($28 million out of $48 million). Reimbursement of the IDA credit funds was the responsibility of the
govemment and of SIPF, although SITARAIL was expected to fully cover these costs through a
payment to the govemment of the earmarked part of a concession fee.
2.5    The project's investment program was based on consultants' studies. However, the cost
estimates were prepared by the concessionaire SITARAIL.
3.     Implementation
3.1    Start of project implementation was delayed by the borrower's failure to meet the
effectiveness conditions for the French (AFD) loan, which automatically delayed effectiveness of the
IDA credit due cross-effectiveness clauses between IDA's and the cofinanciers' operations. This was
the main reason the project's closing date was delayed by one year (to June 30, 2001).
3.2    By the start of project implementation in June 1996, the railway concession had been in
operation for about half a year. In the early stages, friction between the operating company (SITARAIL)
and the landlord companies in Cote d'Ivoire (SIPF) and in Burkina (SOPAFER-B) created some
implementation problems. Selection of investments and management of assets used by SITARAIL and
SIPF's oversight role were among the most contentious of these problems. The friction diminished over
time as trust developed between the two companies. However, the friction is likely to be structural rather
than occasional, since SIPF's mandate appears to be incompatible with an efficient management of the
operating company. This issue is discussed in detail in the next section (paras. 5.8-5.14).
3.3    Project components were implemented as follows:
3 A PPAR for the Burkina transport project is being issued separately.



3
*   Infrastructure investments were implemented essentially as designed (except that the
ballasting program was reduced'by about 30 percent).
*   Equipment investments were scaled down as the needs of the concessionaire appeared to be
less than initially anticipated (line locomotives, shunting locomotives, freight wagons, and
passenger wagons were reduced by some 30 to 50 percent). On the other hand, the
concessionaire found that a fiber-optic telecommumcations line was urgently needed, and it
was procured with financing from savings on equipment.
*   Training was carried out by SITARAIL, for management and for technical personnel.
4.     Performance
The concessionaire improved the railways' performance in all areas. However, achievement of
SAR targets was mixed, as discussed below.
Table 3.1: C8te d'Ivoire - Burkina Railway Summary Results 1994-2001
1994         1996       2001    2001       Better (B)/
(Base Year)  (Year 1 of  (Actual) (Actuatl    Worse (Kg
Concession)            SAR)    than SAR target
Traffic - Freight ton-kilometers (million)  242     451        699      1.2          B
Traffic-Passengers pass-km (million)    250         158        182      0.49         W
Staff                                                          1,630    0.90         B
Productvity (000 traffic units/staff)                          540      1.07         B
Operabng Result, gross (CFAF billion)"             (0.97)      6.76    0.80b         W
Sources. ICR, Strong paper, SITARAIL
a/ Operating Revenue minus operabng expenses.
b/ Based on constant CFAF.
Traffic
4.1    Freight traffic performance improved (Figure 4.1) thanks to a combination of better service,
reinvigoration of the economy following the CFAF devaluation (6 percent annual GDP growth
between 1995 and 1999),4 and deteriorating trucking service stemming from increased road barriers
and controls. The largest gain was in petroleum traffic, where the railway benefited from government
policy that all Mali-bound petroleum imported via the port of Abidjan be carried by railway to
Bouake, and loaded by trucks there. This measure was put in place because much of the tax-free, Mali-
bound petroleum ended up being diverted and sold in Abidjan. In 2001, SITARAIL's freight traffic
was 1.2 times the appraisal forecast.
4.2     Passenger traffic continued to decline (Figure 4.1) for most of the concession period to date as
a result of increasing competition from intemational (Burkina and Mali) and domestic bus services,
coupled with a reduction in the railway services offered, including reduction in the number of trains
and the closure of passenger stations. According to the concession contract, SITARAIL has full
freedom to manage passenger services, including reduction of services and tariff changes. Passenger
traffic recovered somewhat in 2001 mainly due to deterioration of the competing bus service, and
reached about 50 percent of the SAR forecast.
4 ICR, Privatization Support Project.



4
Operations                         Figure 4.1: Evolution of Rail Traffic under Concession
~ '   ''"   " -"- 7-              V -'
4.3    SITARAIL improved       J       :-- .7 ,
productivity in practically all areas  --_
of operation. Staff productivity in                             ehv',t T kin)
2001 was better than projected in  - I !  .
the SAR. The same happened in          so'-9              - .
other areas. In 2001, locomotive   ,E .
availability, which had been in the
60 to 70 percent range before the   1i-E-   -                   Paing    passengr kn).
concession, had surpassed 90         'i 200          -
percent, and the turnaround time for  0-L
freight wagons was 8 days, or about      0
half what it had been. Similarly,  $         1994 1995 1996 1997   1998 1999. 2    200 2001
SITARAIL significantly increased
the safety of its operations, notably
reducing derailments.
Finance
4.4    After large losses before privatization, SITARAIL gradually improved the railways' finances,
and 2001 was the first year with a positive net operating result. The SAR expected this to happen in
1999. The worse than expected financial performance is due to (i) higher than expected operating
costs, due to delays in carrying out cost-reducing investments for example, to reduce the substantial
number of bad track sections operated with slow speeds, and (ii) lower than expected operating
revenues, especially because of low passenger demand. In 2001, passenger revenues accounted for
only 17 percent of operating revenue, compared to 27 percent estimated in the SAR. Although less
than before, the railway under its concessionaire SITARAEL continues to lose money on passenger
service, and this an incentive for SITARAIL to reduce service and cut costs. Should the provision of
passenger services fall below an acceptable level, of which there is yet no evidence, an option would
be to establish a PSO for well identified passenger services, which would require an amendment to the
concession.
Table 3.2: Cote d'Ivoire - Burkina Railway Summary Financial Results 1993-2001
1993        1996       2001    2001
(Year I of  (Actual) (ActuaVl
Concession)           SAR)
Revenues (Billion CFAF)a/                13.9         18.5    23.7    1.23
Expenses (Billon CFAF)a/                  16.9        19.5    16.9     1.30
Operating Result (Billion CFAF) b/       (3.0)        (1.0)    6.8     0.80
Working Rabo (percent) b/                 122          105     0.71    1.96
Sources: ICR, SITARAIL monthly reports
a/ 1993 data is for the Cote d'lvoire and the Burkina railways combined.
b/Working expenses over operating revenues



5
Labor Problems
4.5    The Concession Agreement fixed SITARAIL's staff at 1,815 (or about half the total SICF and
SCFB staff in 1994), and allowed SITARAIL to select its personnel from among the two railways'
staff. Redundant staff were compensated under a program financed in part by AFD. Redundant staff
received 14 months' salary as termination, and were eligible for immediate pension irrespective of
age, a significant exception to pension policies. In addition, some 600 redundant staff were allowed to
keep the housing provided by SICF.
4.6    Staff retained by SITARAIL kept the SICF salary, but received improved benefits, notably
better medical insurance coverage and increased vacation days. Working conditions also improved.
SITARAIL has been selected as one of the pilot enterprises under the ongoing Bank-financed
HIV/AIDS project, and has introduced an H1V/AIDS awareness program. Labor problems are further
discussed in the Appendix to this report.
Suspension of Bank Disbursements
4.7    The Bank suspended disbursements for all lending to C6te d'Ivoire in November 2000,
following a military coup and civil disturbances during a presidential election. The suspension was
revoked at end-November 2001, one month after closmg of the railway project. During the suspension
penod, SITARAIL carried out investments in telecoms for about CFAF 400 million. Since the project
had already closed when the suspension was lifted, the Bank could not process the reimbursement
request. This unfortunate situation had a negative financial implication for SITARAIL.
5.     Issues in Railway Concessioning
5.1    This chapter focuses on key, recurrent issues in railway concessions and discusses the
SITARAIL concession in that context.
Privatization Approach
5.2    The approach taken by the Ivorian and Burkina governments to privatizing railway operations
had two main conditions. First, all infrastructure and equipment was to remain the property of the
government, under the responsibility of newly created "landlord" companies (SIPF in Cote d'Ivoire
and SOPAFER-B in Burkina). Second, railway services were to be operated by one smgle
concessionaire, serving both domestic traffic and the mternational traffic between the two countnes. In
general, concession of public assets to a public operator may or not include sale of assets to the
concessionaire. In practice, governments often wish to retain ownership of the infrastructure as a
strategic asset, but are prepared to divest the equipment. The SITARAIL concession, which did not
include the sale of assets, corresponds to an "affermage" or leasing arrangement. Leasing of
equipment is a complicated arrangement because of the need to carry out a detailed inventory and
inspection of the leased assets, and to monitor the inventory over the period of the concession.
Bidding Process
5.3    The pnvatization/concession process was done through international competitive bidding
(ICB). The bid award criterion was simple: maximum income for the government, subject to meeting
bid conditions. As a pioneer expenence in railway concessioning in Africa, prospects were not good



6
for finding private entrepreneurs interested in obtaining the concession. Yet, the ICB competition
yielded two bids, one of whlch was deemed to be responsive to the bid conditions. The wiIming bid
was led by a France-based, multinational transport/logistics company. The losing bid was a
consortium of seven companies, including railway consultants, shippers, and equipment providers.
5.4    A significant weakness in the bidding process was the lack of a draft Concession Agreement
within the bid documentation. This meant that all contractual conditions between the States and the
operating company were open to negotiations.5 This situation was bound to lead to long and
complicated negotiations, as it actually happened.
5.5    The Data Room for the bidders contained histoncal traffic and financial data, and some general
ideas about possible new traffic items (such as manganese from Burkina, which did not materialize).
There were no country commitments regarding either traffic levels or mdividual traffic commodities.
Overall, the operating company found the data room to be of little use in preparing the bid.
Capital Structure
5.6    Deciding the capital structure of the concessionaire (SITARA1IL) took months of negotiations.
It turned out to be a complex structure, especially in view of the relatively small size of the railway
company. Some shareholders were represented both directly and mdirectly through participation m
other shareholder companies. At the insistence of the government, parties to the losing bidder became
shareholders in SITARAIL's capital. The final capital structure was as follows:
o  Sixty-seven percent is owned by the strategic investor (SOFIB). In turn, a controlling group
(SECAF), which consists of the two main freight-forwarders in the region (SAGA and SDV),
owns 64 percent of the strategic investor. The remainder is owned by two railway consulting
groups (SOFRERAIL, 10 percent, and TRANSURB, 6 percent), a shipping company
(MAERSK, 8 percent), and an Ivorian investment group (SICC, 12 percent).
o  Thirty-three percent is divided among the C6te d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso governments (15
percent each) and SITARAIL staff (3 percent).
5.7    Under the Concession Agreement, SITARAIL is expected to offer 16 percent of its capital to
private investors through the Abidjan Stock Exchange. However, for a company to be able to accede
to the exchange, it must show profits for three consecutive years. SITARAIL only had positive
financial results in 2001 and therefore is not yet able to offer stock through the exchange.
Landlord Company
5.8    Probably the most cntical decision in the design of the privatization was the creation of a
landlord company. Expenence so far indicates that it was not a good decision.6
5.9    Genesis. Landlord companies that retain ownership of all the operating assets of the privatized
companies are not comrnon. Concession arrangements are generally of two types. Under one type
(mostly found in Europe), a separate infrastructure company is created and services are provided by
several competing transport companies. Under another type (mostly found in Latin America), the whole
railway network is broken up regionally, with the infrastructure and equipment leased or sold to the
5 This was noted by the Bank project team during project preparation, in memo by K. Budin of March 5, 1993.
6. The Ministry of Transport continues to support the concept of landlord (or patrimony) corporation, although with some
revisions. See Annex B



7
private operator. In the case of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou railway, the landlord company concept
originated in the need for some cofmanciers to find a financial intermediary, backed by physical assets,
that could be the recipient of the funds. Implicit in the notion of a landlord company was responsibility
for the oversight of conceded assets, both infrastructure and equipment, as well for the management of
the railway's non-conceded (or non-operational) assets. The underlying rationale for this role was that
the State would need to ensure that physical assets (such as structures, drainages, equipment) operated by
the concessionaire would be returned to the State in good condition at the end of the concession period.
SIPF has divested or concessioned some of the non-core assets under its purview, and expects to
continue this process.
5.10   Institutional Set-up. The creation of a landlord company brought with it substantial
administrative bureaucracy and complexity. SIPF initially was established under the Ministry of
Infrastructure, Transport and Communications. SITARAIL was also under this ministry. The MITC
later was divided into two new ministries, one for infrastructure and the other for transport services.
The Concession Agreement establishes that SITARAEL reports to the conceding authority, defined as
the government agency responsible for transport, thus, the Ministry of Transport. Yet, under the
current ministerial structure, SIPF is under the Ministry of Infrastructure. Therefore SIPF, responsible
for the oversight of railway assets, including yearly preparation of a rail infrastructure inventory, is
outside the formal supervision of the concession. At the same time, SLPF is not a member of the
committee that manages the Railway Investment Fund, which is composed of the ministries of
Transport, Economy, and Finance.
5.11   Organization and Funding. SIPF has 30 staff members, 26 of whom manage non-operational
assets, and 4 of whom oversee the railway concession. Yet, some 40 percent of SIPF's budget comes
from fees paid by the concessionaire.
5.12   Relations with the Operating Company. There has been constant friction between the landlord
and the operating company:
*  SIPF's mandate imposes an oversight function on the inventory and condition of conceded
assets. Given the geographic dispersal of railway assets and operations, this is a costly
requirement for the landlord company and for the operating company. An inventory of the
assets conceded to the operating company, which ran to several hundred pages, was finally
agreed (between landlord and operating companies) in 2001, after seven years of discussions.
*  SIPF is also supposed to have a role in investment decisions to be made, and repaid, by the
operating company. Investment policies and objectives of the operating company and SIPF
may not necessanly coincide.
*  Mistrust between the management and staff of both companies is rooted in the manner in
which personnel for SIPF were selected: they were chosen from the pool of SICF employees
that had not been selected by SITARAIL.
5.13   Needfor Amending the Concession's Organization Framework. The complex arrangements
described above, and the structural tensions between landlord and operating company suggest that the
concession's organizational framework should be improved, mainly by reducing and making the
mandate of the landlord company more focused.' In newer railway concessions in Africa, such as the
one in Cameroon, there is no landlord company and maintenance of the conceded railway assets is left
entirely with the operating company.
7. For example, the agreement between the govemment and SIPF stipulates that SIPF should follow compliance by
SITARAIL with the Concession Agreement, but it also says, "SIPF should not interfere with (SITARAIL) management"



8
5.14   Ideally, the operating agreement should be changed from the current system of "affermage" to
a full concession, with the concessionaire actually owning the equipment. In practice, if fonnal
changes are not introduced, the change may happen anyway in the long run, as the concessionaire
finances and becomes the owner of the newly acquired equipment.
Regulations
5.15   Cote d'Ivoire's privatization strategy of its SOEs assumes the creation of a regulatory body for
each sector. In practice, this has not been done for transport or for most other sectors. Regulatory rules
for SITARAIL's operations are imbedded in the Concession Agreement, under the authority of the
Ministry of Transport and its counterpart in Burkina Faso. As noted below, the concession is only
lightly regulated, largely because there is strong competition from road transport, and because of the
managerial freedom the Concession Agreement grants the operator.
5.16   As a concession granted by two governments, establishing a regulatory body would be
complicated. Instead, the concession establishes (i) a Supervision Committee ("Comite de 'Suivi"),
compnrsed of representatives of the two governments, the two landlord companies and the
concessionaire, to monitor and enforce the concession, and (ii) a dispute resolution procedure,
consisting of a group of five conciliators, representing the two governments, SITARAIL (2) and a fifth
conciliator appomted by agreement among the parties.
5.17   The key features of the Concession Agreement's regulatory aspects are:
o Tariffs: SrrARAIL is free to set tariffs for both freight and passengers. SITARAIL only is
required to inforn the government of any intended tariff change 30 days in advance. The
govemment has no veto power over tariff changes. Special rates may be negotiated directly
with shippers and do not need to be disclosed. In practice, SITARAIL's average freight rates,
measured in constant CFAF, have decreased (in 2001-equivalent CFAF, 29.1/ton-km in 2001
versus 34.4/ton-lan in 1995).
o  Services: SrrARAIL is free to change, add, or discontinue services. In practice, SrrARAJL
has substantially reduced passenger services. SITARAIL is also free to close stations or other
facilities. While it seems surprising that neither Cote d'Ivoire nor Burkina Faso requested a
guaranteed level of low-cost passenger services through a Public Service Obligation (PSO),
the availability of competitive bus services justifies the govemments' position.
O  Staff Initial numbers of staff were fixed. Current SITARALL staff is slightly lower.
O  Competitive behavior. SITARAIL freedom for tariff setting and provision of services could, in
theory, lead to anti-competitive behavior vis-A-vis the trucking industry. So far, it appears that
truckers have not registered complaints with the Ministry of Economy. The Concession
Agreement contains a clause giving the govemment after the fifth year of the concession the
right to require SITARAIL to provide third-party operators access to SITARAIL's track. This
clause is intended to stimulate competition through contestability within the railways.
5.18   Clients as Concession Shareholders. A potential issue in the concession is that one of the
largest clients of the railway is a major shareholder of the concessionaire. Another shipper, which was
part of the disqualified bid, also became a shareholder durng negotiations of the Concession
Agreement. Thus, from the point of view of shareholding, there are three categories of clients: the
large shareholder, the small shareholder, and the non-shareholder. In principle, this may imply a
8 The Ministry of Transport supports this view. See Annex B.



9
conflict of interest, since the non-shareholders and the smaller shareholders may be discriminated
against in the provision of service.
Investments
5.19   A cntical aspect of infrastructure concessions is the reluctance of foreign operators to invest,
because the risks are considered to be high and the investments generally not mobile. It is even more
difficult for railways because of declining demand, political interference in management, and large
investments. This latter consideration was an important factor in the decision to organize the
concession as a lease rather than as a sale of assets.
5.20   Yet, the SITARAEL concession shows that if the railways can be tumed into profitable
operations, the private operator is prepared to finance investments in equipment. With financing from
private local banks, SITARAIL has acquired four locomotives for $2.8 million, 50 freight cars for $3
million, and is preparing to invest an additional $3 million for freight cars during 2002.
In the future, the newly created Investment Fund should become the main financing source for
new investments, especially for infrastructure. The Fund will be funded by a 2 percent fee on
gross revenues, reallocated from the overall fees paid by the concessionaire. This arrangement
globally increases the money available for investments. This is important because of the lack
of financial instruments available in Cote d'Ivoire for a concessionaire to finance
infrastructure investments. The assets acquired with moneys from the Fund will be managed
by the concessionaire and transferred back to the government at the end of the concession.
Social Issues
5.21   Issues related to policies and management of human resources often are critical in the success
or failure of SOE privatization. As noted earlier (and further elaborated in the Appendix) this issue
was well managed in the SITARAIL concession. There was clear dedication both m the government
and the operating company to ensuring that staff declared redundant would get as much compensation
as possible. At the same time, the operating company established excellent relations with the labor
union, by improving benefits and working conditions for SITARAIL staff. SITARAIL also has an
excellent communications strategy, starting with a well designed, 10-page, bimonthly publication
("Nouvelles du Reseau") that keeps staff informed of the company's business news and social events.
Renegotiations
5.22   SITARAIL's concession was renegotiated in 2002, seven years after its original signing. The
upshot was extension of the concession's duration from 15 to 30 years. This differs from the
Concession Agreement, which stipulates a "rolling concession," covering 15 years initially, with
successive 5-year extensions possible thereafter. The renegotiations also created an Investment Fund
and a management system for it; increased the user fee to be paid by SITARAIL from 4 to 6 percent of
gross revenues; reduced from 3 percent to I percent the payment SITARAIL makes to its main
shareholder for the provision of technical assistance services, and reallocated the 2 percent saving in
technical assistance fees to the Investment Fund.
5.23   Operator requests to renegotiate concession contracts are a recurrent issue in infrastructure
concessions. Renegotiations normally lead to longer concession periods, effectively eliminating the
threat of competition "for the market" when the onginal concession term expires. At the same time, the
longer duration, and other changes in the Concession Agreement, pose questions about transparency and
whether other groups would have submitted a bid under the new terms of the concession.



10
Performance Monitoring
5.24   Monitoring compliance with concession agreements is a key issue m concessions. The
SITARAIL concession has an excellent set of performance monitoring indicators, including traffic,
operations, staff, safety, and financial. SITARAIL reports such indicators on a monthly basis, with
practically no delay. Now that an Investment Fund has been created, the monitoring indicators should
include figures showing the investments made.
6.     Ratings
6.1    Outcome is rated satisfactory based on the subratings for relevance, efficacy, and ef-ficiency.
Relevance is rated high, since privatization of state owned enterprises is a key govemment objective,
supported by the Bank. Privatization of the railway was a priority for two reasons. First, the r ailways'
deficit was a significant drag on the government's budget, a drag that has been eliminated with the
concession. Second, the long-standing decline in the railways' quality of service affected overall
transport services in C6te d'Ivoire. The decline hindered services to neighboring Burkina and in
consequence threatened diversion of Burkina's trade from the Abidjan port to other, more distant,
ports in the region. Efficacy is rated substantial, since most, but not all, the investments were carned
out as planned and performance targets were mostly but not fully achieved. Efficiency is rated
substantial. The ICR estimates the economic return to be a satisfactory 22 percent. However, financial
performance remains weak.
6.2   Institutional Development Impact is rated high. The transformation from a poor performing,
deficit-ridden, publicly operated railway into a private concession is a very significant achievement.
The budget subsidy to the railway has been eliminated. The operator has created a harmonious
working environment, improved working conditions, and has managed to prevent the major social
problems that often occur when infrastructure is concessioned. The staff of the concessionaire was
trained in modern management tools and in railway techniques, especially track maintenance, a very
weak area at the start of the concession and still in need of improvement.
6.3    Sustainability is rated likely. Usually, for a private operation that has substantially improved
performance, sustainability should be rated highly likely. However, in this case, two interrelated
factors preclude the use of higher rating. First, the concessionaire's financial performance, while
improving, is still weak and below appraisal expectations. Second, there are some significant
remaining issues with freight traffic, the railway's main revenue source, and questions about the extent
to which SITARAIL will be able to expand or at least retain the existing levels of service. At present,
traffic on the competing road routes between Abidjan and Ouagadougou is being constrained by an
inordinate number of controls, which increase road transport costs while introducing a degree of
uncertainty. If such controls disappeared, the railway could lose some of the traffic. A similar situation
occurs with the petroleum bound for Mali, for which the railway currently enjoys a monopoly between
Abidjan and Bouake, and which may be challenged in the future by both truckers and the Mali-
Senegal railway that is being readied for concessioning.
6.4    Bank Performance is rated highly satisfactory and was excellent in all phases of the project
cycle. The project was especially challenging because of the pioneering nature of railway
concessionmg in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Bank-designed reporting for monitoring performance was
excellent and has been retained by the concessionaire after project closing as its reporting standard.
Durng lending preparation, the Bank team had the complex role of coordinating the financing among
the govemment and four donors, both in C6te d'Ivoire and in Burkina. The Bank team during
appraisal of the project was especially concemed with the labor redundancy issue. The Bank also



11
conducted a tight supervision of the operation, with exceptional continuity of staffing, good reporting,
and close coordination with all donors. The project's clear focus, the detailed monthly reporting by
SITARAIL, and the continuity of staffing allowed it to do an effective supervision using relatively
little staff resources. While the Bank could be criticized for accepting the concept of landlord company
(in fact, the Bank requested that the corporation be legally established and their managers in place in
time to participate in credit negotiations)9 the Bank had no option since the landlord company had
been made an essential requirement by a key financier.
6.5    Borrower Performance is rated satisfactory. Overall, government performance was excellent
during preparation and implementation. Its privatization policies and strategies were well conceived
and basically retained throughout the operation. The notion of a lightly regulated concession was
correct. SITARAIL's performance has been very good, even if not all SAR expectations have been
met. SIPF and SITARAIL correctly complied with reporting requirements. Unfortunately, significant
conflicts in the relationship between these two companies, particularly in the early years of the
concession, preclude giving the borrower the highest rating.
7.     Lessons
7.1    Design of Railway Concessions. The SITARAIL concession had two interrelated aspects that
generated significant transaction costs for the operator without providing any significant benefit for
the govemment as conceding power: (i) the creation of an asset landlord company and (ii) the design
of the concession as an "affermage"(leasing) rather than outright sale of equipment. While
govemments may want to retain ownership of strategic assets, which could include the railways'
infrastructure, retaining ownership of equipment in a 15-year concession (now extended to 30 years),
makes no sense since by the end of the concession practically all the equipment will be obsolete.
7.2    Public and Private Benefits of Performance Monitoring. Under the project, a well-designed
system of performance reporting, with detailed monthly reports, was established. Such reports allow
government officials and financiers to follow the performance of the concessioned operation. The
operator has found that such reporting is useful for the management of the company, and has retained
the same format and frequency of performance monitoring report after closure of the project.
7.3    Managing the Redundancy Process. The SITARAIL concession offers an excellent lesson
about the way labor redundancy can be addressed to mitigate the negative effects. Termination grants
(supported by cofinanciers), early retirement, outsourcing works to individuals made redundant, and
close and open communications between management and the labor union were key ingredients to
successfully tackling this delicate issue.
7.4    Renegotiation of Concessions. In line with what is becoming the norm in infrastructure
concessions, the SITARAIL concession was renegotiated. Renegotiations are a way to avoid putting
the concession out again for bid at the end of the original concession term. Yet, renegotiations
undermine transparency in competitive bidding. As a minimum, renegotiations should be deferred as
much as possible. SITARAIL's renegotiations happened about seven years after the initial award of
the concessions. This is better than most infrastructure concessions. Renegotiations may be required
when conditions (for example, relevant legislation) change and substantively alter the framework of
the concession. Concession agreements should define the conditions under which renegotiations are to
take place. Experience shows concessionaires sometimes submit too good a bid for the government, in
9 Bank mission back-to-office report, May I1, 1995.



12
the expectation that the terms of the concession will soon be renegotiated. Yet, bids are busmiess
decisions that involve risk analysis and risk taking. Post-bid negotiations are exhaustive (nine months
for the SITARAIL concession), and are the right place for the parties to ensure that the proposed
concession framework is tenable, and to establish the basis and trigger for eventual renegotiations.
Unforeseen events such as armed conflict should be covered underforce majeure clauses.
7.5    Role of the Bank in Railway Concessions. The fact that only two bids were received, only
one of which was valid, points to the difficulties in finding private investors interested in operating
railways in Sub-Saharan Afnca. In this situation, the Bank appears to have a significant role to play by
contnbuting as a financier, with its knowledge of world-wide experience with railway concessions,
and as an honest broker in the design and operations of railway concessions. The Bank's role appears
to be especially important in regions, like Sub-Saharan Africa, where attracting pnvate investors to the
infrastructure sectors is especially difficult.
7.6    Suspensions of loan disbursements andprivatized operations. The Bank suspended for a
time disbursements in all its operations in Cote d'Ivoire. The privatized company was not reimbursed
for investments made during that period because the project closed before the suspension was lifted.
This situation affected the finances of the private operator, although the target of the suspension
should have been solely the borrower. The Bank should try to find ways to prevent the measures it
may take based on country conditions from harming private operators engaged under a Banlc-
supported operation.



13                                   Appendix
Appendix: Social Issues in the Concessioning of Cote d'Ivoire
Railways
Among the most sensitive and difficult areas of pnvatization and concessioning of state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) is the social impacts that may result. This appendix presents a brief analysis of the
situation with the SITARAIL concession
Labor Redundancies. Because SOEs often are hugely overstaffed, the laying off of personnel is one
of the biggest issues in privatization. In the CMte d'Ivoire Railway concessioning, SITARAIL rehired
1,815 staff from within SICF and SCFB. This number compares to 3,470 (1,370 m SCFB and 2,100 in
SICF) before privatization. Further cuts took place thereafter. The redundancy process was
substantially smoothed by a compensation program mostly financed by cofinanciers (AFD).
Redundant staff received 14 months salary on average, plus the right to immediate pension
irrespective of age (this was a sigmficant exception to pension policies). The pension program was
financed by the budget. In addition, some 600 staff were allowed to keep the housing that had been
provided them by SICF.
Personnel issues were further attenuated since a number of laid-off staff (estimated at 200) ended up
creating or being employed by SMEs that did work for SITARAIL under contract. This work was
mostly for track maintenance operations. At the same time, foreign technical assistants, normally a
source of friction within staff, were reduced from about 40 in SICF to about 4 under SITARAIL.
Labor Reaction. A three-day labor strke at start of the railway pnvatization process marked labor's
opposition to the process. Similar opposition continued for about six months. The strike and union
demands were instrumental in securing the pension program and the housing arrangement described
above. Another strike, not organized by the union, took place in 1998 and resulted in 100 staff losing
their jobs, 50 of whom were later re-admitted following union pressure. The union now takes a
positive view of the pnvatization process.
Benefits. The personnel retained by SITARAIL started with identical salaries to those paid by SICF.
However, their vacation days increased, and so did thelr medical benefits. A new medical benefit was
coverage of the concubine, an important benefit since many couples are not legally married. The labor
union also reported that working conditions have improved, such as the provision of working clothes
and helmets, and improved lodging facilities during fieldwork. SITARAIL has been selected as one of
the pilot enterprises under the Bank-financed HIV/A1DS project. SITARAIL claims that AIDS-related
deaths have decreased from about 100 per year (relative to SICF's 3,200 staff) to about 20 per year
(relative to 1,800 staff).






15
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal               Actual or                Actual as percent of
Estmate                  current estfmate        Appraisal estimate
Total project costs             48.0                             42.0                      88
Credit amount                   20.0                              17.1                     86
Project Dates
Original                           Actual
AppraisaVnegoUaUons                                                               04/14/1995
Board Approval                                                                    11/28/1995
Signing                                                                           11/30/1995
Effectiveness                                                                      06/12196
Closing date                                   06/30/2000                         06/30/2001
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                          Actual US$000
Identificaton/Preparaton                      7.7                                  35.9
AppraisalNegotiation                          28.8                                  84.0
Supervision/Completion                       42.6                                  165.3
Total                                         79.1                                 285.2
Mission Data
Date        No of       Specialty            Implementation       Development
_______  _____  ________  Persons                          Progress            Objective
Identification/      3/95
Preparation
AppraisalV           4/95         3          TE, RS, PA
Negotiabons
Supervision           12/95       2          TE, 00                         S                  S
4/96        2           TE, OO                        U                  S
4/97        1           FA                            S                  S
10/97       1           RS                            S                  S
9/98        2           RS, OO                        S                  S
5/99        2           RS,OO                         S                  S
2/00        2           RS, OO                        S                  S
ICR                  3/01        2            RS, 00                        S                  S
TE= Transport Economist, RS= Railway Specialist PA=Project Assistant
OO=Operations Officer, FA=



16
Annex B: Borrower Comments
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Ministry of Transport
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Abidjan, February 27, 2003
We are in broad agreement with the views presented by the evaluation mission,
The project, for the fact that it was the only example in Africa of a railway concession to a private
operator, has been a success that many did not anticipate. In addition, the binational characteristic of
the operation was a potential source of operational problems, both for the concessionaire and for the
Conceding Authority comprised by the two States. In practice, the situation was well managed and
integrated into the project economic dimension, by the States as well as by SITARAIL.
However, we have comments on some specific points of the PPAR.
On the institutional arrangements
The PPAR states that the creation of a patrimony corporation was not a good approach.
This criticism should be qualified. It was the not the existence of the patrimony corporation
that created difficulties, but the fact it was a new experience in Cote d'Ivoire's institutional set up,
and therefore difficult for those responsible to fully control.
We are in agreement that it is necessary to revise the institutional framework of the
concession. It would be enough to place the SIPF under the Ministry responsible for transport, as it is
done in Burkina. It is also necessary, as suggested by the PPAR, to fine tune the attributions of the
Patrimony corporation, to reflect the amendments made to the concession following the renegotiation
that took place in 2001.
Lessons from the concession
Design of railway concessions
We continue to support the approach involving creation of a Patrimony corporation because,
having such corporation a permanent presence m the concession, it will be compelled to gather
essential information on technical and practical aspects of the concession. An administration directly
under the State would not have such a possibility, given the budgetary and bureaucratic constraints of
government operations.
With respect to the leasing ('affermage') system, it eventually will become obsolete, since the
amendments introduced during the renegotiation state that " the concessionaire will take it upon itself
to purchase new equipment, which will become its property".



17
Therefore, in the long run, a real concession will develop, where the Patrimony corporation
will only own the infrastructure, while all the equipment will belong to the concessionaire.
Suspension of disbursements
We fully agree with the PPAR that the Bank should not penalize the concessionaire when
there is a suspension of disbursements, a measure which is taken regarding the Borrower, from which
the concessionaire should be completely independent.
Even more so that the Borrower, thereafter, when the suspension was lifted, continued to
receive disbursements.
The Ministry of Transport would ask the Bank if it would be willing to approve, on an
exceptional basis, to reimburse SITARAIL, especially considering that this company has been further
harmed by the war of 19 September 2002.
For the Minister
Yeo Tiovaga
Directeur du Cabinet









RepoKk No.:       25554
Type:     PPAR
9MrlaCOMn(o^



