CREDIT NUMBER 2786 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Railway Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2786 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          N                 0O         , 1995, between
REPUBLIC    OF   COTE    D'IVOIRE   (the  Borrower) and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 5, 1995,
describing a program of policies, goals and actions designed to achieve the adjustment of
the Borrower's railway sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program;
(B)    in pursuance of its policies included in the Program, the Borrower and
Burkina Faso have entered into a concession agreement dated December 12, 1994, with
La  S.cidt  SITARAIL   (SITARAIL) for the operation of services on the
Abidjan/OuagadougoulKaya railway (the Concession Agreement);
(C)    the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;  *
(D)    the Borrower intends to   contract from  Caisse Frangaise
Dveloppement (CFD), a loan (the CFD Loan) in an amount equivalent to twenty-six
million French Francs (FF 26,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the CFD Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between Socidti Iyoirienn! dg Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire (SIPF) and CFD;
(E)    the Borrower intends to contract from the European Investment Bank
(EIB), a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent to four million eight hundred
thousand European Currency Units (ECU 4,800,000) to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
(F)    the Borrower intends to contract from the West African Development
Bank (BOAD), a loan (the BOAD Loan) in an amount equivalent to four million two
hundred thosand dollars ($4,200,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the BOAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and BOAD;
(G)    the Borrower has received from the Kingdom of Belgium through
Adminisation Gz6ndrale pt la Coop6ration At ic DIeloppement (AGCD), a grant (the
AGCD grant) in an amount equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the AGCD
Grant Agreement) entered into between the Borrower and AGCD;


﻿-2-
(H)    the Project will be carried out by SogiW  Ivoirienne de Qtion du
Patrimoine Ferroviaier (SIPF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SIPF the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, initr ali", of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SIPF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the following modifications
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(b)    the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association,
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(b)    "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SIPF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;


﻿-3-
(c)    "SIPF" means SoiW IvQirienne d Gotion du Patimoine Er.yiaire,
a Soci6t6 d'Etat established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 95-582, dated July
26, 1995;
(d)    "State - SIPF Agreement" means the Agreement dated October 5, 1995
entered into between the Borrower and SIPF, to be approved by a Borrower's Decree, for
the management of railway assets and of the monitoring of the concession awarded to
SITARAIL;
(e)    "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and
SIPF, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)    "SITARAIL" means L    Sociti SIARAIL, a Soci6I     Anym e
established pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(g)    "Concession Agreement" means the agreement dated December 12,
1994, between the Borrower, Burkina Faso and SITARAIL, pursuant to which
SITARAIL has been awarded a concession to operate railway services on the Abidjan-
Ouagadougou-Kaya axis for a period of fifteen years;
(h)    "SITARAIL Implementation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between SIPF and SITARAIL pursuant to Section 2.01(b) of the Project
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement;
(i)    "Implementation Manual" means the manual to be adopted by SIPF and
SITARAIL pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement, specifying the Project
implementation arrangements, procedures, schedules and performance indicators for the
purposes of carrying out the Project; and
(j)    "CFAF" means Eran d lA Commuinau      Finmcire Afriaine, the
currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to leid to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 13,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
SAccount in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the


﻿-4-
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
CFA Francs a special deposit account in Caise Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment -charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to khe Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2006, and ending August 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2015 shall
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall bt
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-5-
(b)    Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this eud, without any
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SIPF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of SIPF therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SIPF to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)    The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to SIPF
under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
SIPF, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
which shall include, inter ala the following: (i) relending the amounts from time to time
allocated to Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement at
an interest rate of seven and eighty hundredths percent (7.80 %) per annum, the principal
to be repaid in fifteen (15) years including a grace period of three (3) years; (ii)


﻿-6-
providing the amounts from time to time allocated to Categories (2) and (3) of the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this Agreement as a grant; and (iii) the principal of the
amounts repayable by SIPF pursuant to (i) above shall be the equivalent in CFAF at the
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account of the amounts so
withdrawn and outstanding.
(c)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing
Agreement in such manner . as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the State-SIPF Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the State-SIPF
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by SIPF
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association,
SIPF and SITARAIL, not later than November 30, 1997, a mid-term review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. This review shall cover,
among other things: (i) the performance of SIPF and SITARAIL in carrying out the
Project; (ii) the extent to which the institutional objectives of the Project are being
achieved; (iii) compliance with the financial, audit and other obligations of the
Borrower, SIPF and SITARAIL, included in this Agreement, the Project Agreement and
the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement; (iv) performance against the performance
indicators agreed upon with the Association and specified in the Implementation
Manual; and (v) procurement under the Project.
(b)    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at least thirty days prior
to such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, describing
the status of progress regarding the items listed in paragraph (a) above and of Project and
Program implementation generally.


﻿-7-
(c)    Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action
plan acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and
shall promptly thereafter implement such action plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall, from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and in particular on the Borrower's pricing policies for transport services and
its plans in respect of the overall development of the railway sector.
Section 4.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained
until at least one year after the Association has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and


﻿- 8-.
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    SIPF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(b)    As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that: (i) SIPF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement; or (ii) SITARAIL will be able to perform its obligations under the
SITARAIL Implementation Agreement.
(c)    The Borrower's Decree No. 95-582 dated July 26, 1995 establishing
SIPF or the Borrower's Decree approving the State-SIPF Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of SIPF to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SIPF or for the suspension of its
operations.
(e)    The Concession  Agreement or the SITARAIL       Implementation
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project, the ability of SIPF to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the ability of SITARAIL to
perform its obligations under the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement.
(f)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
(g)    The BOAD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by
June 30, 1996, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿-9-
(h)    (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor; or
(B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)    such   suspension,  cancellation,  termination  or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
and
(B)    adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b)    the event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; or
(c)    any event specified in paragraph (h) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10-
(a)    the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and SIPF;
(b)    the Association has been notified that all conditions precedent to the
initial disbursement of the CFD and EIB Loan Agreements, respectively, have been
fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)    the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf
of SIPF and SITARAIL;
(d)    the Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been
adopted by SIPF and SITARAIL;
(e)    SIPF has selected an independent auditor, with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference, satisfactory to the Asssociation, for the purposes of
carrying out the audits required under Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement; and
(f)    the Borrower's Decree approving the State-SIPF Agreement has been
published in the Journal .Qffii.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or
opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by SIPF and is
legally binding upon SIPF in accordance with its terms;
(b) the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower and SIPF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SIPF in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized and
ratified by SIPF and SITARAIL and is legally binding upon SIPF and SITARAIL in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B.P. V 125
Abidjan
Republic of C6te d'Ivoire
Cable address:             Telex:
MINFIN                     23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of Amerka
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
By/~t~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/S 'cL4                    *      LfOA
Regiona Vice President
Africa


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit                   % of
Allocated              Expenditures
(Expressed in               to be
caig=ry                 SDR Equivalent)             Financod
(1)  Railway and telecommu-        6,110,000        100% of foreign expenditures,
nication equipment, spares,                    100% of local expenditures
subcomponents and instal-                     (ex-factory cost) and 95%
lation thereof under Parts B                   of local expenditures for
and D.1, 3 and 4 of the Project                other items procured locally
(2)  Track materials and           5,970,000        100% of foreign expenditures,
equipment, other equip-                        100% of local expenditures
ment and vehicles under                        (ex-factory cost) and 95%
Parts A and C of the Project                   of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
(3)  Service contract under          360,000        100%
Part D.2 of the Project
(4)  Unallocated                   1,060,000
TOTAL                         13.500,00
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided,
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for
such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures."


﻿- 14-
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services with
consultant firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and for
expenditures for individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to contribute to the revitalization of the railway
transport service in the Borrower's territory in order to promote competitiveness and
regional integration through the rehabilitation of the railway infrastructure and
equipment assets.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A: Inrastructure Rehabilitation
1.     Track rehabilitation, including replacement of sleepers on about 40 kilometers
and of rail on about 50 kilometers.
2.     Track ballasting, and repairs of bridges, culverts and embankments..
3.    Installation of weighing equipmbnt.
4.     Rehabilitation of selected workshops and workstations.
Part B: Motive Power and Rolling Stock Rehabilitation
1.    Rehabilitation of about 9 main-line locomotives.
2.     Rehabilitation of about 8 shunting locomotives.
3.     Rehabilitation of about 250 freight cars and about 20 passenger coaches.
4.     Establishment of a stock of essential spare parts.
Part C: Service Equipment and Facilities
1.     Rehabilitation and acquisition of essential track maintenance equipment and
tools.
2.     Rehabilitation of maintenance facilities.
Part.D: Telecommunications
1.    Rehabilitation and improvement of the train-to-ground radio system.


﻿-16-
2.     Installation of a radio block operating system, including the acquisition of
computers.
3.     Replacement of telecommunication equipment in two major activity centers and
three medium size centers.
4.     Carrying out of miscellaneous small repairs, acquisition of maintenance
vehicles, and establishment of a stock of essential spare parts.
Part.E: Training
Provision of training for track rehabilitation and maintenance, commercial and
marketing skills and environmental assessment and monitoring.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in CFAF equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association


﻿- 18-
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿-19-
6. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the -Association,
refund to the Association such out;tanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


