0 0FF F le-AL
L~L
CREDIT NUMBER 2786 IVC
Projet Agreement
(Railway Rehabiitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE IVOIRIENNE DE GESTION DU PATRIMOINE FERROVIAIRE
Dated                  0 2  , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2786 IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         4      L3                   , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SOCIETE
IVOIRIENNE DE GESTION DU PATRIMOINE FERROVIAIRE (SIPF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of C8te d'Ivoire (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to thirteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that SIPF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B)    by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and SIPF, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to SIPF on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
WHEREAS SIPF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE H
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SIPF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project through SITARAIL with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices and with
due regard to environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    For the purposes of carrying out the Project, SIPF shall enter into an
agreement with SITARAIL, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
which shall include, inter ai, the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SIPF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SIPF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SIPF shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)    SIPF shall duly perform  all its obligations under the State-SIPF
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SIPF shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the State-SIPF Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SIPF shall: (a) not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating or
waiving the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof; and (b) not
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Implementation Manual so as to affect
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) SIPF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or the
SITARAIL Implementation Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)    SIFF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by SIPF of its obligations under this
Agreement, the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or the SITARAIL Implementation
Agreement.
Section 2.07. SIPF shall: (a) not later than November 30, 1997, participate
jointly with the Borrower and the Association, in the mid-term reNiew of the progress
made in carrying out the Project and the Program referred to in Section 3.04(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement; and (b) thereafter implement the action plan prepared
in accordance with Section 3.04(c) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.08. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, SIPF shall:


﻿-3-
(i)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation of the
Project; and
(ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
SIPF on said plan.
ARTICLE M
Management and Operations of SIPF
Section 3.01. SIPF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SIPF shall, within the framework of the Concession Agreement, at
all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated and maintained, its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound, financial
and engineering practices.
Section 3.03. SIPF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SIPF shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and
the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)    SIPF shall:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such


﻿-4-
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from  time to time
reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, SIPF shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement, SIPF shall, not later than March 1, 1996, furnish to the Association its
oper'ng balance sheet audited in accordance with Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
SIPF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-5-
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)  the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify SIPF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this. Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SIPF:
Soci6t6 Ivoirienne de Gestion
du Patrimoine Ferroviaire
16 BP 1415
Abidjan 16
Republic of Cbte d'Ivoire


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SIPF, or by
SIPF on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by its Directeur Gdndm  or such other person or persons as the Dracta=
Gdn6ral shall designate in writing, and SIPF shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By//c             V
Regional ice President
Africa
SOCIETE IVOIRIENNE DE GESTION
DU PATRIMOINE FERROVIAIRE
By                Auhriej R       4a
Authorized Represnaie


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section 1.   Procurement of Ggods
Part A: Gegral
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part.C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Limited International Bidding
Contracts for rail fastenings of a specialized nature, which the Association
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.     National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for ballast up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.    International or National Shopping
Contracts for goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract,
may be, (a) up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures; and (b) up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures; all in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.


﻿-8-
4.     Direct Contracting
Contracts for main-line locomotive parts and subcomponents which are of a
proprietary nature, costing $4,800,000 equivalent or less in aggregate, and contracts for
emergency repair of electric traction motors for locomotives costing $500,000 equivalent
or less in aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
PatD: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association, for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section I.I.  Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the .Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement Required
pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SIPF shall ensure that the
SITARAIL Implementation Agreement to be entered into with SITARAIL pursuant to
Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement shall include, inter alia, the following terms and
conditions:
(a)    Articles 15, 16, 44, 46, 48.2, 54, 57, 58 and 61 of the Concession
Agreement shall be incorporated by reference;
(b)    SITARAIL shall declare its commitment to the objectives of the Project
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end,
SITARAIL shall agree to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, railway and
environmental practices and criteria and, in accordance with the Implementation Manual,
and to provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefore;
(c)    SITARAIL shall agree that procurement of the goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)    SITARAIL shall agree to comply with the record keeping, auditing and
reporting requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, including the annual
auditing of its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements);
(e)    SITARAIL shall agree to report monthly and annually to the Association
on the performance of its activities on the basis of the performance indicators set forth in
the Implementation Manual;
(f)    SITARAIL shall, without any limitation to the provisions of the
Concession Agreement, carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project;
(g)    SITARAIL shall, in accordance with Section 3.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement and Section 2.07 of this Agreement: (i) not later than November 30,
1997, participate in the mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out of the
Project; and (ii) thereafter prepare and implement an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for the further implementation of the Project;


﻿-10-
(h)    SITARAIL shall, at the request of the Borrower, the Association or
SIPF, exchange views with the Borrower, the Association and SIPF with regard to the
progress of the Project and the performance of its obligations under the SITARAIL
Implementation Agreement;
(i)    SITARAIL shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project,
or the performance by SITARAIL of its obligations under the SITARAIL
Implementation Agreement; and             I
(j)    except as the Borrower, the Association and SIPF shall otherwise agree,
SITARAIL shall: (i) neither take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement
or any provision thereof; and (ii) not amend, abrogate, or waive any provision of the
Implementation Manual so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the
Project.
2.     The SITARAIL Implementation Agreement shall include a provision stipulating
that in the case of conflict between the SITARAIL Implementation Agreement and this
Agreement, the latter shall apply.


