Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9646
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1212-SOL)
JUNE 14, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
AIDAB     -  Australian International Assistance Development Bureau
(also ADAB)
CDC       -  Curriculum Development Center
DAD       -  Development Administration Division
EEC       -  European Economic Community
IDA       -  International Development Association
IPU       -  Implementation and Planning Unit
N4EHRD    -  Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development
MEP       -  Ministry of Economic Planning
MET       -  Ministry of Education and Training
METCA     -  Ministry of Education, Training and Cultural Affairs
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
PCC       -  Project Co-ordinating Committee
PCR       -  Project Completion Report
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
SBD       -  Solomon Islands Dollar
SDR       -  Special Drawing Rights
SECS      -  School of Education and Cultural Studies
SICHE     -  Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
SIG       -  Solomon Islands Government
SIHA      -  Solomon Islands Housing Authority
SITC      -  Solomon Islands Teachers College
FISCAL YEAR/SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Solomon Islands Dollar (SBD)
At Anpraisal. Avril 1981
$1.00La = SBD 0.87
SBD 1.00     $1.15
Average Annual Exchanae Rates to S1.00
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
SBD   1.03   0.88   0.79   0.68   0.58   0.50   0.48   0.44   0.40
/a "S" means United States dollars throughout.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Ditectnt-Gewal
Op"ratan Evaluation
June 14, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  SOLOMON ISLANDS -
Primary Education Project - (Credit 1212-SOL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Solomon Islands - Primary Education Project
(Credit 1212-SOL)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office, with Part II of
the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank: authorization.



FOR OMCIL us ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
.                                  PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDXT 1212-SOL)
Table of Contents
Paae No.
Preface     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
Evaluation Summary .iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .1
Project Identity .1
Project Background .1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . .      2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
Project Implementation.                                      3
Major Results of the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
Project Sustainability.                                      7
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      9
Commission of Inquiry .11
Consulting Services and Fellowships . . . . . . . . . .
Audit and Reporting Functions . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . .     14
Adequacy and Accuracy of the Information of Part III  .     14
Comment on the Analysis in Part I . . . . . . . . . . .     14
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance  . . . . . . . . .     15
Evpluation of the Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . .     15
Relationship Between the Pnnk and the Borrower  . . . .     16
Evaluation of the Performance of the Cofinancier
and its Relationship with the Borrower  . . . . . . .     17
Contribution to Educational Development of Each of
the Objectives of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . .     17
Conclusion    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Tables)  . . . . . . . . . . .     20
3.1  Related Bank Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     20
3.2  Project Tirnetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
3.3  Estimated and Actual Disbursements . . . . . . . .     21
3.4  Disbursement Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     22
3.5  Average Annual Exchange Rates for the SBD  . . . .     23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
Pace No.
3.6  IDA Disbursements by Credit Agreement Category .      23
3.7  Project Costs by Major Type of Expenditure . . . .    24
3.8 Project Financing  ... .  .  .  .  .   .. .  .  .  .  .   .  25
3.9  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
3.10 Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
3.11 Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
3.12 Mission Data . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  28
3.13 Primary School Enrollments by Grade, 1980-88 .        29
3.14 Numbers of Primary Schools and Enrollment
by Agency, 1980-88 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      30
3.15 Trained and Untrained Primary Teachers, 1980-88       31
3.16 Primary Enrollment Ratios by Provinces . . . . . .    32
3.17 Primary School Enrollment by Sex, 1980-88  . . . .    33
3.18 Public Servants in the Education and Human
Resource Development Cadre . . . . . . . . . . .     34
3.19 Enrollments and Graduates in Primary Teacher
Training [Certificate of Education (Primary)]       35
3.20 Numbers of Fellows and Graduates
under the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
3.21 Sample of Inservice Training Workshop- for
Primary Teachers ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  37
3.22 Studies Linked to the Project  . . . . . . . . . .    38
3.23 Summary of Project Costs by Year and Purpose . . .    39
3.24 Summary of Annual Expenditures by Category . . . .    40



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1212-EIL)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the first IDA-assisted
project, the Primary Education Project, in the education sector in Solomon
Islands and assesses the impact of the Credit for SDR 4.3 million approved on
March 2, 1982. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1989, two years behind
schedule. Final disbursement and cancellation of the undisbursed balance of
SDR 13,641 was made on May 15, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Asia Country Department V (Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I
and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR commenced during the last two supervision
missions in June and November, 1989. The PCR is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and the project files of the
Bank and the Borrower.



- fii -
pROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1212-SOL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
i.        The overall objective of the rroject was to support the Solomon
Islands Government's (SIG) development plans in the education sector
(para. 4).  It was designed to:  (a) help improve education management at
various levels through provision of training for national and provincial
administrators and for headmasters; (b) upgrade education quality through
improved inservice teacher training and provision of textbooks and teaching
marerials; (c) increase primary enrollments through provision of new school
facilities and expansion of pre-service teacher training to provide the needed
teachers; and (d) equalize education opportunities among provinces and between
the sexes by improving access to education of good quality in underserved
areas.
Imvlementation ExDerience
ii.       This first education project, beginning only four years after
independence, presented the Government with a significant sectoral challenge.
During the seven-and-a-half year implementation period, SIG generally
acquitted itself well in meeting the quantitative goals of the project
(para. 10).
iii.      In fact, the project proceeded ahead of scheduled disbursements for
the first four years (Table 3.3). However, changes in management, confusion
over currencies and accounting, delays in some components and the investiga-
tions of a Commission of Inquiry (para. 25) brought implementation to a
virtual halt in 1987 and 1988 (para. 12). Thereafter, the project was managed
by she team that had been established to implement the Secondary Education
Project (Credit 1686-SOL) and was finally completed about two-and-a-half years
behind schedule. Nevertheless, the IDA Credit of SDR 4.3 million ($5.0
million equivalent) was almost entirely disbursed except for SDR 13,641 which
was canceled (para. 60 and Table 3.6).
Results
iv.       Quantitative goals were for the most part met (para. 15).  Primary
school enrollments were increased, educational facilities were provided as
planned, key educational staff were trained, teachers were given inservice
training and the supply of educational materials in general met the targets.
Major accomplishments include the provision of additional facilities,
equipment, library books and fellowships for the Solomon Islands Teachers



- iv -
College (SITC); the construction of about 300 primary classrooms and 100
teachers' houses; overseas training for nearly three times the number of
fellows originally intended; and systematic, although delayed, inservice
training in-country for primary teachers, headmasters and provincial
administrators.
v.        The project was not entirely successful in meeting two project
objectives, however: to increase enrollments of primaryp teacher trainees to
meet the higher demand and to provide all the planned books for schools. In
fact, the teacher training intake has declined (para. 14). A major curriculum
revision not envisaged at appraisal resulted in the writing of new books and
teachers' guides by external consultants rather than simply procuring the
books externally (para. 15).
vi.       SIG was also less successful in implementing the project's
management and institution-building components, in allocating adequate
implementation staff, and in strengthening its planning processes and
management capacity at the central and provincial levels. The failure to
appoint four of the five expatriate advisors and sufficient and appropriate
local officers was reflected ultimately in poor project reporting, record
keeping and financial control (paras. 11 and 13). In addition, skills
acquired by the multilevel teacher trainers, were not fully utilized and the
trainers were not equitably distributed throughout the country. Teachers' and
communities' expectations of the project were thwarted by continual delays in
the supply of books and furniture as well as in erection of classrooms.
Sustainabilitv
vii.      The project contributed to the high level of investment in the
education sector during the project period with the resulting recurrent costs
having to be absorbed by SIG. However, judicious planning and fiscal
constraint are demonstrating that the project was viable and is sustainable
(para. 17). Also con:ributing to sustainability was the major review
undertaken under the project of curricula reform and the provision of
educational materials, as previously there had been no textbook policy, little
funding for educational materials and no agreed procedures for curriculum,
revision (para. 18).
viii.     Less certain, however, is the sustainability of inservice training
for primary teachers.   The project established a strong foundation in this
area as well as in the areas of curriculum reform and provision of educational
materials (para. vii), and the required investment to sustain them is small,
but doubts remain about SIG's will and ability to do so. The project has
emphasized the need for SIG to determine educational policy and planning
procedures and to link these to informed and structured management.
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.       The project has provided valuable lessons for the follow-on
Secondary Education Project which is proceeding more or less on schedule
(paras. 21 and 24). The Bank and SIG have increased their awareness of the
need to emphasize educational planning, financial control and effective



supervision. The ultimate educational impact of the project la hard to
assess. The burgeoning school population continues to make the provision of
school places the first priority so that quantitative provision continues to
over-ride qualitative considerations.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
pRIMARY EDUCATION PROJETC
(Credit 121:-SOL)
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE B     S PERSPECTIVE
Pro ect Identity
Project Name:       Primary Education Project
Credit Number:      1212-soL
RVP Unit:           Asia Country Department V
Population and Human Resources Division
Country:            Solomon Islands
Sector:             Education
Subsector:          Primary
Proiect Backaround
1.        Sector Development.  At the time of appraisal in April 1981, SIG's
objectives for education were to provide equal educational opportunities
regardless of sex, religion or location, to establish links between education
and national development, and to provide skill training for its growing
economy. In 1990, SIG has broadened its objective to improving the overall
quality of the education system. During the intervening years, however,
primary enrollments increased by 81 percent, the number of primary schools
grew by over 30 percent and the number of teachers doubled (Tables 3.13, 3.14
and 3.15). In the same period, the economy deteriorated with inflation rising
from 7 percent to 22 percent, a trebling of the foreign debt, a six-fold
increase in the deficit, an actual expenditure of only 20 percent of the
estimated government budgeted expenditures, and a decline in the value of the
SBD by more than 50 percent.
2.        Policy Context.  Prior to 1974, almost all primary education was
the responsibility of the churches. In an emerging national education system,
SIG's immediate strategies for education were to: (a) increase primary
enrollments at 5 percent per annum so that 70 percent of the primary age group
would be enrolled by 1985; (b) improve the quality of primary education; (c)
increase access to provincial secondary education and emphasize agricultural
and technical skills; (d) provide equitable access to higher education; and
(e) introduce more relevant curricula at all levels.
3.        Linkages Between the Proiect and Sector Policy Obiectives.  The
project was designed to improve educational management at various levels, to
improve qua?ity while increasing enrollments, and to equalize educational
opportunities.  The project concentrated on: (a) designi;^g and supplying
simple easily-assembled classrooms ("prefab classroom kits") to expand
opportunities for village schooling; (b) carrying out curricula revisions,
which, although not originally included in the project, largely achieved the



goal of making primary schooling directly relevant to local communities; (c)
improving the quality of schooling through the provision of textbooks; (d)
training educational adminiotrators to improve management; and (e) developing
key personnel to carry out irnservice education. Through these measures, the
project has assisted with the development of improved access to primary
education (73 percent of the age-group by 1988--Tabie 3.16). especially in
less developed areas, and slightly improved the proportion of girls in primary
schools (from 41 percent in 1980 to 44 percent in 1988--Table 3.17). one of
the highest birth rates in the world continues to exert tremendous pressure on
the education system. The project greatly improved the physical facilities
for primary teacher training, but failed to increase the output of trained
teachers due to the lack of suitably qualified secondary graduates and the
introduction of the preparatory year (foundation year) at the SITC which
occupied part of the project facilities.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
4.        Proiect Obiectives. The project's main objectives were to:
(a) improve educational management by training provincial and national
administrators and headmasters; (b) upgrade the quality of primary education
through improved inservice teacher training and provision of textbooks and
teaching materials; (c) provide new school facilities; (d) expand preservice
teacher education and consequently permit an increase in primary school
enrollments; and (e) equalize educational opportunity among the provinces and
sexes.
5.        Proiect ComDonents.  The specific project components allowed for:
(a) training 34 national and provincial officers and headmasters in
educational administration; (b) inservice training in multigrade teaching for
about 1,200 teachers annually; (c) purchase of 150,000 textbooks and teachers'
guides and provision of aupplementary teaching materials; (d) building
materials for construction of 300 new primary school classrooms;
(e) construction, equipment and fellowships to increase the enrollment in pre-
service primary teacher training from 160 to 400 annually; and (f) related
specialist services totalling 17 staff-years.
Proiect Desion and Organization
6.        The project was designed by World Bank and Ministry of Economic
Planning (MEP) staff from identification in May 1980 through appraisal in
April 1981 to accomplish a limited set of objectives for the primary education
subsector. The Ministry of Education (MEHRD)i/ felt that, unlike the Asian
Development Bank's newly designed Rural Services Project, implementation
should bct the responsibility of the line ministry and handled by public
servants. However, MENRD's limited staff (an establishment of only 20 public
ii The Ministry of Education and Human Resources Development (MEHW)) was
formed in March 1989. Previously it had been called the Ministry of
Education, Training and Cultural Affairs (METCA) and the Ministry of
Education and Training (MET). The MEHRD acronym will be used throughout
this text.



servants in 1980-Table 3.18) were il,_-equipped to tackle such tasks.
Consequently, the time extensions required for this project were not so much
the result of inappropriate design as of cumulative personnel (especially weak
management and inadequate staffing), financial and political factors.
7.        Modifications were made to the project as it proceeded: 100
teachers' lhouses were included in the civil works component with some
financing by EEC; three educational resource centers were constructed and
equipped on a pilot basis; four of the five expatriate advisers were never
hired; textbooks, teachers' guides and instructional materials were developed
to replace the direct purchase of books originally envisaged for non-core
subjects; significant changes occurred in project management and technical
assistance; provision was made within the overseas training component for
personnel to be prepared for implementing the expected second education
project; with increased bilateral assistance, more books and furniture were
allocated to primary schools; and financial assistance was provided to the
Secondary Education Project to conduct two major studies and to deliver, in
conjunction with the first project, furniture and equipment to the provinces.
8.        The project was well-prepared.  However, some of the detailed
suggestions provided prior to effectiveness do not seem to have been taken up
during implementation (for example, the proposed project monitoring
indicators). From the pace of implementation for most of the period, the
absorptive capacity for each component was adequate. Difficulties and delays
occurred in particular regions and in some sub-components prior to 1987, but
this was not so much a reflection of poor project design as of local
conditions (including cyclone disruptions). Some of the original targets were
exceeded, suggesting for example that the initial estimates for participation
of administrators in training and for inservice education had been too modest.
9.        Project preparation should have taken more account of the
administrative role and participation of the provinces, when it emphasized
local community participation. The latter was beneficial in most instances in
obtaining direct support from the community for construction of classrooms but
would have benefitted from provincial administrative inputs or participation.
The local manufacturing capacity of the Solomon Islands Housing Authority
(SIHA) to produce "prefab classroom kits" was negatively affec;ad by the many
changes in SIHA management, and the difficulties afforded through these
changes in management could not have been foreseen. A major weakness of the
project design was insufficient attention to the organizational ability of
national and provincial officers to handle the volume of work required. This
was compounded by the inability to recruit trained personnel (both local and
expatriate) to implement the project.
Proiect Implementation
10.       General Assessment.  The project proceeded smoothly and, indeed,
ahead of schedule during its first four years (Table 3.3). ?ariations in the
rate of implementation were normal for particular components and for
provincial aspects of particular components. Several factors adversely
affected Implementation in the later stages, however: (a) the inability of
project management to undertake effectively the actions necessary for



-4-
successful implementation; (b) a lack of coordination between the expatriate
curriculum and textbook developers and the local implementers; (c) lack of
communication and coordination between MEHRD and SIHA to ensure the timely
provision of the prefab classrooms to local authorities; (d) lack of a
rationale for ordering numbers of textbooks and teachers guides; and (e)
inadequate attention to data collection (especially financial data) and to
educational planning. One of the more serious weaknesses was the lack of
staff assigned to implement the project, which, together with weakened MEHRD
management, resulted in a serious slowdown in project activity from 1986 to
1988. Another contributing factor was that the Commission of Inquiry (1988)
impounded all project files (para. 25); the resulting paralysis during that
uncertain period adversely effected project performance. Nevertheless, the
project largely achieved its quantitative targets.
11.       Weakn"ea.  A major implementation constraint was the non-
appointment of the other four expatriate project implementation staff expected
at appraisal. One reason was that the initial expatriate director, an
educational planner rather than the engineer planned in the project design,
assumed the functions of project director, deputy director and accountant.
This action and subsequent events permitted considerable control to rest with
the director. Secondly, with insufficient experienced and qualified personnel
in an embryonic ministry, counterpart appointments were greatly delayed. The
first appointment late in 1982 was for a part-time officer, who had no formal
training in accounting, to perform accounting functions. Thirdly, the project
was designed to be coordinated by the Development Administration Division
(DAD) of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Provincial Government through a
project coordinating committee (PCC) to be composed of representatives from
ZEHRD, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and DAD. The PCC does not seem to have
operated, and the project, in fact, was administered from within MEHRD.
Fourthly, difficulties were encountered in allocation of classrooms to be
constructed in each of the eight provinces; despite declarations of full
discussion, the magnitude of provincial involvement and the necessity for
community participation in determining the allocations may not have been fully
appreciated either by the Bank or by the central authorities.
12.       Relationshin to the Secondary Education Proieot (Credit 1686-SOL).
Overall government strategy had been to develop primary education, both
quantitatively and with quality, in order to establish a sound base for
secondary school development. The identification, preparation and
implementation of a second Bank-financed education project by 1987, was part
of this strategy. The Secondary Project had important influences on the
delayed Primary Project. Key personnel were selected to manage the Secondary
Project and given overseas training under the fellowships provided by the
Primary Project. The Implementation and Planning Unit (IPU) established under
the Secondary Project, first undertook financial responsibility for the
Primary Project in October 1987 at the request of the Bank and subsequently in
March 1988 took over full management when the Primary Project had ground to a
halt. Two key studies (of school facilities and mapping. and an education
sector study) proposed for the Secondary Project were financed from the
Primary Project. Similarly, funds from the Primary Project, for efficiency
and cost reduction purposes, were used to transport the Secondary Project
furniture and equipment which arrived in the country at the same time as those



- 5 -
for the Primary Education project. This maximized the use of procured
equipment by guaranteeing early delivery and enhancing the quality impact of
both projects. Such flexibility in administration is admirable and should be
seen as a positive contribution to both projects.
13.       Proiect Risk".  The staff appraisal report (sAR) correctly assessed
the greatest risk as managerial. The solution-to appoint expatriates to key
posts-was not effective, as four of these appointments never occurred. MEHRD
officials eventually assumed some of the project management responsibilities.
A counterpart to the expatriate director was not designated soon enough and
hence essential on-the-job transfer of knowledge and management skills did not
occur. The project designers did not foresee the lack of a clear management
structure and procedures within MEHRD. Insufficient interaction among various
units within the Ministry seriously hampered implementation. So too, did
changes in personnel and the general lack of Public Service commission
awareness of the work involved in administering the project.
14.       The second identified risk was that the Solomon Islands College of
Higher Education (SICHE) 2/ would disregard the MEHRD targets for trained
teachers, as it had in the past, and use the increased places to train
secondary teachers. This risk also was justified. Fault lay on both sides.
MEHRD continued to be unable or unwilling to provide statistical data to SICHE
on pupil enrollment projections. SICHE introduced a foundation year to
improve the quality of its entrants; but by not ccrrespondingly increasing its
space, the College actually reduced the intake of primary teacher trainees to
125 (by 1990) and hence has depleted by about 70 percent the annual output of
400 trained teachers planned under this project (Table 3.19).
Major Results of the Proiect (See Part III.)
15.       Proiect Obiectives. Most of the quantitative objectives of the
project were met. More specifically:
(a) of the planned 34 educational administrators and provincial
officers to receive training, 32 received formal training in
educational administration of whom 19 graduated. In the teacher
training area (pre- and inservice), 23 out of the 25 students
graduated as multilevel trainers. Fourteen out of 15 students
completed their up-grading to Bachelor of Education, all 8 students
completed their Diploma of Primary Teaching, 3 of the 4 students
completed their Associate Diploma of Business Studies, and one
official graduated as Master of Arts and is now Director of SICHE.
Overall, 80 percent of the total of 83 students completed their
overseas courses (Table 3.20);
~/   In 1984, SITC was amalgamated with other institutions to become the
Solomon Islands College of Higher Education (SICHE) and this acronym
will be used. As SICHE's School of Education and Cultural Studies
(SECS). it lost its autonomy.



- 6 -
(b) inservice training has been systematically given to primary
teachers between July 1983 and December 1989. R6cords show that at
least eight courses were held in 1989 (Table 3.21). It is
estimated that most teachers received some inservice training each
year in specific subject content and methodology;
(c) books in appropriate quantities have been delivered. The 1988
Commission of Inquiry found that only about 50,000 of the 150,000
textbooks, teachers' guides, library books and teaching materials
were purchased directly from publishers for a cost exceeding SBD
1.1 million. Subsequently, a supplementary order for about 60,000
books in mathematics and English were procured on the basis of one
book for every two pupils. The government printer also produced
teachers' guides but delivered fewer than the targeted one volume
per subject to some schools. In addition, about $450,000 was paid
to the overseas curriculum development contractors for the
development and production of textbooks and teachers, guides,
incorporating local content, for all primary schools. Furthermore,
through direct AIDAB support, late in the implementation period,
the equivalent of about A$l,000 worth (about $900) of supplementary
books were supplied to each primary school;
(d) all 300 primary classrooms, mainly in areas where no facilities
previously existed, were built through the provision of prefab
classroom kits to communities. In addition, 100 teachers' houses,
partially financed by EEC, were constructed (although these were
not identified at appraisal);
(e) new construction (library, assembly hall, classroom block, three
double hostel units and 10 lecturers' houses) and general
refurbishing, library books, equipment and fellowships were
provided to SICHE slightly exceeding appraisal proposals. However,
changes made in recruitment of students (para. 14 above) actually
reduced annual intakes from 160 to 125 currently (50 of whom are
unqualified teachers already teaching in the schools); and
(f) of the planned 17 staff-years of technical assistance, only 2.5
staff-years were utilized during the first two years of project
implementation. Subsequently, the equivalent of about 10 staff-
years for curriculum development and 1.5 staff-years for expatriate
consultants in studies and teacher training have been paid for from
the Credit (Table 3.22).
16.       Project Impact.  The project has had a far wider effect than its
quantitative targets suggest:
(a)  Sector DeveloDment. Revamping of the primary school curriculum
through the production of new textbooks, teachers' guides and
learning materials will have a continued impact on the quality of
primary education.



-7-
(b) Educational Administration. The opportunities for advanced study
in administrative techniques, supplemented by practical observation
overseas, helped both national and especially provincial
administrators realize their potential. That individual schools as
well as the provincial and national system benefitted, attests to
the ability of these key education managers to influence others on
their return from abroad.
(c)  coogeration.  Misunderstandings and practical (often financial)
difficulties pointed out the need throughout the life of the
project for greater cooperation among government agencies. This
occurred both laterally between ministries, at national and
provincial levels. and vertically within MEHRD.  Changing
procedures on authorization by MEHRD or MOF regarding approvals of
contracts was symptomatic of more widespread uncertainty. The
highly structured bureaucracy stifled initiative. The inability of
some officials to make decisions, to see the implications for lack
of action or to follow-through on commitments made, often caused
embarrassing delays. The lack of flow of information was evidenced
by complaints regarding unfulfilled community expectations for
classrooms and delivery of materials, and poor communication from
the project to the other agencies involved. The latter was also
reflected in weak or non-existent quarterly progress reports. On
the other hand and in a much wider sense, eventual cooperation and
understanding between AIDAB and IDA supervision teams has resulted
in a sharing of ideas, procedures and practical assistance which
has brought mutual benefit far beyond the scope of this project.
(d) Data Records. Difficulties in tracing what was procured, what
happened at specific periods and why certain actions were taken or
neglected may be symptomatic of administration by doing without
planning. The various files on the project do not convey a
coherent story. Little attempt was made to summarize and analyze
the progress of the project even annually. The categories (sub-
heads) used for financial records were changed and items
incorrectly recorded or merged with those from the Secondary
Project. As a result, from inspection of the MOF History Files,
the total project costs are approximate at best (Tables 3.7, 3.23
and 3.24). On the other hand, disbursement requests to IDA, as
well as AIDAB expenses which were recorded separately, were
adequately handled. These weaknesses have been recognized in the
Auditor-General's report of 1988 and are being addressed throughout
the Secondary Project through more systematic recording and
analysis, and through the training of project (and MEHRD)
personnel.
Project Sustainability
17.       SIG was rightly concerned at the beginning of the project as well
as at various points throughout, that the level of investment in the education
sector was too high. This project contributed significantly to that high
investment; now its recurrent cost implications have to continue to be



absorbed by SIG. However, judicious planning and fiscal constraint, while not
always popular, especially at the provincial level, are demonstrating that the
project was viable and is sustainable. This is occurring despite a more than
30 percent increase in teachers' salaries which followed significant increases
in public service salaries in recent years.
18.       The project has also demonstrated the benefits of local community
participation in educational affairs, especially in contributing time and
labor, supervised in most instances by SIHA, for the construction of local
classrooms. This was an established tradition prior to the project but has
become more difficult for the communities due to increased costs resulting in
their requesting increased central funding for such social services. Equally
important, the lack of a textbook policy, of appropriate funding, and of
agreed procedures for curriculum revision instigated a major review in order
to make the impact of curricula reform and local materials content instituted
under the project sustainable in the future.
19.       The impact of the project on teacher preparation, both preservice
and inservice, has shown the importance of such services. Quantitatively,
preservice education facilities still appear inadequate to meet the realistic
demand for qualifying trained primary teachers, despite construction under
this project. The project has also shown the need for consistency in data
gathering and dissemination if sustained teacher output is to be achieved.
The greatest danger to any education system, however, is that once initial
training is accomplished, continued inservice training is neglected.  The
required investment to sustain regular, planned inservice teacher development
and continually to revise curricula and materials is an extremely small
percentage of educational expenditure. In each of these essential areas, the
project has established a strong foundation which requires sustaining, but
doubts remain about SIG's will and ability to do so.  More than ever, the
project has pointed to the essential need for MEHRD to determine educational
policy and planning procedures and to link these to informed and structured
management.
Bank Performance
20.       Maior Strenoths and Weaknesses.  Bank staff contributed to the
project through active supervision and supportive relationships with both
national officers and aid agency representatives. One major benefit was
clarification and appreciation of the respective roles of the Bank, AIDAB and
SIG. This led to productive tri-partite reviews during the last two years of
the project and laid the foundation for firm collaboration for the second
project. However, several key weaknesses in Bank operations can be detected:
(a) the absence of a general educator for most of the supervision missions
during the first two phases (to 1988) of the project was crucial in not
identifying early enough poor collaboration between the Curriculum Development
Center (CDC) and SICHE; (b) unsatisfactory follow-up of consultant efforts on
curriculum development; and (c) infrequent, short and somewhat superficial
supervision (often of only three days) which did not allow sufficient time to
assist in resolving managerial, personnel, financial and curricula problems.
The combining of this relatively small project with supervision of other
projects in neighboring countries, while seemingly cost-effective for travel



- 9 -
purposes, may have contributed to inadequate Bank supervision. These
difficulties were acknowledged in the latter period of the project. Through a
joint initiative with AIDAB, additional supervision has been contracted with
an external consultant. However, this took nearly two years to finalize and
came too late to benefit this project.
21.       Lessons Learned.  Implications for other projects, summarized
below, do not include the litany of general lessons common to most PCRs, but
rather try to focus on those aspects which this project has brought to light:
(a) Where cofinancing or bilateral agencies are involved, an early
understanding should be reached regarding the respective roles of
each of the collaborators in the project. This is particularly
necessary with regard to procurement practices which differ among
agencies and can create administrative difficulties where project
management is weak or inexperienced.
(b) Regular, agreed reviews of project implementation by all parties
should become a feature both of the design of the project and of
its implementation. This applies both to formal meetings to review
progress and share insights and to the production of annual or
semi-annual progress reports.
(c) Whether consultants are employed under government, bilateral or
Bank contracts to perform specific tasks, Bank supervision missions
should meet with these consultants as well as with government to
assess the appropriateness of the goals and the effectiveness of
achievements.
(d) Managerial and financial, as much as physical aspects of projects,
require constant vigilance from supervision teams. The Bank may
wish to be more selective in setting out terms of reference and in
approving who manages a project. The confusion between SDR and
SBD, which resulted in a marked slowing down of procurement for
about 24 months, may be understandable but should have been
identified much sooner by Bank missions. This also emphasizes the
need for local personnel to be adequately briefed and trained in
international financial concepts like SDRs and exchange rate
fluctuations.
(e) Where Bank supervision cannot specialize in every aspect of project
implementation, potential problem areas need to be discussed openly
with the project management. Mechanisms should be built into
projects to permit flexibility in hiring short-term specialists to
assist in supervision.
Borrower Performance
22.       Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The project commenced in late 1982
with preparation (of construction drawings and equipment lists for SICHE, and
rough locations for primary classrooms) well-advanced. Considerable attention
had been given, even prior to negotiations, to the construction, equipment,



- 10 -
books and fellowship provisions for SICHE which appears to have received top
priority.  The other training components-master trainers, multigrade
inservice training, overseas fellowships-also received prompt attention with
later beneficial results. This may in part have been due both to intrinsic
interest in these components by the MEHRD and because the Bank educator
responsible for designing the project also supervised the start-up. Despite
limited local staff and almost no expatriate recruitment, the project
proceeded ahead of scheduled activities and disbursements during its first
four years. Local officials, however, both in the national and provincial
governments were reluctant to exercise their authority or were unsure of
appropriate procedures. At certain times in the project, some officials did
not seem as conscientious in their duties as should have been expected; on the
other hand, most project staff applied themselves assiduously to their tasks
and benefitted from their working relationships both with Bank missions and
expatriate staff.
23.       The establishment of a PCC as an advisory body requires full
government commitment. The PCC did not function in this project, possibly
because the initial director felt that such a body might hamper rather than
endorse implementation actions. In other projects where PCCs do function,
however, some doubts have been raised about the desirability of tying up the
time of senior officers from different ministries who often may lose the
continuity of a project due to their unavoidable absences from PCC meetings.
Nevertheless, the PCC provides a useful endorsement mechanism for project
implementation (as it does in the Secondary Project) and often is the major
means of keeping the most senior officers in many ministries informed of
project activities. Considering the method of operation of SIG
administration, the presence of the PCC would have benefited the project since
such a body would have realized that project implementation staff was
inadequate, the SDR misunderstanding might have been resolved earlier, and
communication among SIG and the schools improved.
24.       Lessons Learned.  This first education project required centralized
management and cooperation among various elements of government. The breadth
of its components developed local experience and expertise in project
management, international procurement, dealing with consultants, community
cooperation and educational change. Through the Commission of Inquiry, the
project also learned the crippling effects of official investigations and the
constant need for vigilance in public service. Some of the more relevant
details of implementation which will assist future project administration are:
(a) Curriculum tasks contracted to a commercial firm should have
realistic time-frames as this determines in part the queUity of the
work received. Furthermore, in contracting for a product such as
curriculum materials or textbooks, final payment should be withheld
until the work is deemed to be of a satisfactory standard.
(b) Continuous consultation among consultants and various responsible
local officials (for example, the CDC and SICHE) is essential to
ensure adequate local content irn curricula materials. In small
nations this is simplified because the same person commonly holds



- 11 -
several posts. However, numerous small but separate units or
divisions within a ministry tend to negate this advantage.
(c) Use of imported textbooks with local content inserted for core
subjects seems sound policy. Involving external writers in
training nationals was also advantageous, but the wrong target
groups were trained. Training is needed for the curriculum
developers, the provincial education officers and also the teachers
so that revision of content can be continued after the first
generation of books has been used.
(d) Adequate numbers of counterpart staff, having basic backgrounds in
the specialized fields, are essential if on-the-job knowledge and
skill transfer are to occur whenever external consultants are
employed.
(e) If curriculum development is required as part of the project (and
it was added about one-third of the way through this project),
training of national staff in curriculum development is essential
prior to the project component commencing so that national staff
can work with the external consultants.
(f) Project management staff need to have minimal formal training in
general project management, disbursements, procurement and
accountancy in order to understand how a project develops and is
managed and to be able to act for other staff who may be absent.
Furthermore, such training should be given very early in their
assignments and repeated as new staff come on board.
(g) A management structure, with appropriate delegation of authority
and a clear definition of duties, needs to be developed to ensure
that project administration continues at all times and that each
officer is responsible and accountable for particular features of
the project.
(h)  Government procedures, for example for contract review, need to be
streamlined and a consistent policy adopted for their
implementation. This means that such procedures need to be well
thought through before being promulgated and, more importantly,
that officers be trained in how to carry them out.
(i) The Bank may wish to pay closer attention to investments in smaller
countries where small amounts of money have a higher profile, by
increasing the frequency and duration of its supervision and
guidance to avoid the misuse or abuse of power by nationals or
expatriates.
Commission of Incuirv
25.       In February 1988, a government Commission of Inquiry began
investigations into allegations of misuae of project funds as well as of other
government-financed expenditures. The Commission reported to the Prime



- 12 -
Minister in August 1988. Following discussion in Cabinet, the report was
never tabled in Parliament. A copy of the report was made available to the
Bank. The major findings suggested that a project manager should have been
more judicious in the manner in which he awarded some contracts,v/ monitored
progress and accounted for funds. While not detracting from the seriousness
of the issues involved, the Commission of Inquiry indicated that the Bank
procedures had been respected since all Bank actions or no-objections were
based upon written recommendations by senior SIC officials.
Consulting Services and Fellowshios
26.       Role and Responsibilities of Consultants.  The project employed
consultants in three main roles: (a) to manage the project and assist MEHRD
planning, (b) to prepare curricula materials and textbooks, and (c) to prepare
and deliver inservice training:
(a) Only the initial expatriate director was employed as a long-term
expert (para. 11). Failure to recruit other specialist staff,
especially an expatriate accountant, seriously hampered the project
throughout and was probably instrumental in miscalculating project
funds and misunderstanding the conversion of SDRs. The two
expatriate trainers also were not employed, thus not maximizing the
curriculum changes through inservice training. The numerous
consultants engaged by the sub-contract to prepare teachers' guides
and pupils, books did not follow through with specific inservice
training for local curriculum developers and teachers, thus losing
much of the potential impact of these materials. Under the
Secondary Project, the expatriate advioer fulfilled many of the
roles initially intended for the consultants planned for the
Primary Project and was instrumental, together with the IPU
director, in bringing the project to its successful completion.
(b) By engaging an expatriate firm to develop textbooks and curricula
materials appropriate for local conditions, the project
circumvented the major task of a full-scale curriculum revision and
designing of textbooks, teachers, guides and materials from
scratch. The disadvantage was that the consultants, on a fixed-
term contract, were unable to liaise fully enough with local
curriculum personnel to obtain sufficient feedback on local
content.
(c) Inservice training was designed and delivered by both expatriate
and local staff. The expatriates were attached to the curriculum
contractor and to SICHE. However, while their efforts in designing
courses were commendable, they failed to appreciate the broader
aspects of their responsibilities in grooming others to continue
these functions. Lack of coordination between SICHE and CDC could
t./ He did not always follow SIG procedures but, in any case, there were
changes in these during the project implementation period.



- 13 -
have been lessened if these consultants had taken the lead to
promote sound working relationships.
27.       The program of fellowships and study visits abroad and the
continuing inservice training provided within the country were designed to
allow the most people to be exposed to new ideas and methods. In general,
this design worked admirably. Non-delivery of books and teachers' strikes
caused minor delays in the inservice program. Selection of appropriate
personnel for overseas study posed an initial problem, but the quality of
headmasters and administrators and especially of the multigrade teachers who
returned to become inservice collaborators and regional counsellors brought
high praise for the project.
Audit and Reportino Functions
28.       Lengthy delays were experienced in submitting audit reports from
independent auditors, often because funds had not been allocated for this
activity. Sometimes these reports, especially on Statements of Expenditure,
were not as clear as the Bank expected, nor as useful to local decision-
makers. In hindsight, this may have reflected the difficulties experienced in
project accounting. The use of a locally controlled Special Account for the
deposit of credit funds from time to time, worked well and was one of the
earliest examples of such an account in this sector.
29.       Quarterly reports were regularly submitted early in the life of the
project, but not during the middle years. Linked with the considerable length
of time between most supervision missions, and their comparatively short
duration, since they usually involved multiple country visits by Bank staff,
these reporting delays caused gaps in the Bank's awareness of project status.
When the IPU took over management of this project, detailed minutes of regular
meetings were submitted to AIDAB, and the Bank agreed to accept these in place
of a specially written quarterly report. Reports produced by the AIDAB
Adviser to the Secondary Project, especially the numerous specific topic
reports produced during the latter part of the project, compensated for
quarterly report lapses. Similarly. the thorough briefing of Bank supervision
missions by the IPU has provided both oral and written substitutes for the
more normal reporting format.



- 14 -
PART II:  P!ROJ&CT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIXVE
Adecmacy and-Accuracy-of the Information     P-Rart IXI
29.       SIG is satisfied with the adequacy and accuracy of the factual
information in Part III of this report; the information was prepared by the
Bank in collaboration with representatives of SIG.
comment on the Analvsis in Part I
30.       The analysis is comprehensive and accurate.  It draws from SIG's
own review of key aspects of the project, contained in the Report of the
Commission of Inouirv into the Primary Education Proiect and concurs with that
Commission's findings except in some minor errors of fact or interpretation of
that report.
31.       Nevertheless the analysis could have dealt at greater length on two
critical weaknesses in the design and implementation of the project:
(a) The project was designed without a clear education platform. There
was at the time of design no education sector plan for the Solomon
islands. The objectives are listed therefore without any reference
to any impact that they will have on the development of education
(for example, what will be the effect of the construction of 300
classrooms?). Lacking such a statement of impact, it is difficult
to evaluate the objectives other than comment on the extent to
which they were achieved.
(b) Management and implementation-the project design called for a team
of experienced people with discrete but mutually supportive skills
(building engineer. accountant, educationist, teacher trainers).
This did not eventuate, and instead one project director was
appointed who combined the roles of project director (building
engineer), deputy director, and educationist. Given the
inexperience of Solomon Islands' education officers in project
management, and their only recent elevation to senior positions in
the MEHRD (the country attained independence only four years before
the start of the project), the Bank could have played a more direct
role in helping with the establishing of a competent management
team. This weakness in direct guidance led to departures from the
original objectives of the project which were not agreed to but
which the Bank acquiesced in (such as the awarding of contracts to
external consultants for curriculum development which was the
subject of criticism from the Commission of Inquiry) and the lack
of a PCC which might have corrected some of the management problems
of the project.



- 15 -
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
32.       SIG recognizes and appreciates the assistance given by the Bank and
the extremely favorable terms under which this assistance was given. The
project has also benefitted from the care and work of the different Bank
personnel who assisted the project at different times. SIG is also aware that
by Bank standards the amount of the credit was small and the activities Of the
project small scale, while Solomon Islands is also comparatively isolated and
a long way from the Bank's headquarters in Washington. Visits to this country
jy Bank personnel were often necessarily brief and Tombined with visits to
other countries in the region.
33.       While recognizing these aspects, SIG nevertheless feels that, at a
period in the early years of its independence, the Bank gave insufficient
attention and support to a new Borrower implementing 4its first sectoral
project.
34.       In the first four years of the project, there were only two visits
by educationists from the Bank with the result that more emphasis was clearly
on building classrooms. training administrators and teacher trainers, and
acquiring classroom resource materials, while Part (c)-studies to review
issues in the education sector-was neglected.  Only one such study was
commissioned for this project, that was in 1986 and it was to review
curriculum development within the project. The whole area of educational
planning and the question of what was the ultimate purpose of training and
building, remained largely neglected by not having an educationist come to
review the project until towards the latter half of its life. In educational
terms-the effect the project has had on the quality of learning by pupils-
the project is almost impossible to assess.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
35.       Because of the Commission of Inquiry, the problems encountered in
managing the project have become widely known, while the achievements have
been downplayed in the public view. The Government feels that the project was
largely successful in achieving its objectives, and that this achievement is
significant in view of the fact that this was the first aid project in
education for this recently independent country.
36.       Despite many difficulties, the project did construct all of the
planned 300 classrooms, sent 85 officers overseas to gain professional
qualifications, produced and delivered curricula and textbooks for and to all
primary schools while developing in-country expertise, conducted inservice
teacher workshops at national and provincial levels, produced studies to help
improve education management and services, and laid the foundation for the
expertise in managing education aid projects which are evident in the
Secondary Education Project.
37.       Mention must be made of the problems faced by the Borrower and how
these were overcome, for a full appreciation of the Borrower's performance.
There were three phases to the management of the project. Phase I (1982-1985)
was when the project was headed by an expatriate director, and it was during



- 16 -
this period that most of the key decisions were taken and much of the
implementation occurred. Phase II (1985-1987) was when the project was headed
by a part-time local director with other very senior duties, and Phase III
(1988-1989) was when the project was taken over by the IPU established under
the Secondary Project and was brought to a conclusion.
38.       The Commission of Inquiry (1988) has already commented on the
performance of officers involved directly or indirectly in the first two
phases of the project. It drew attention to the lack of suitably qualified
and experienced staff within MEHRD, resulting in officers being given
technical and public service responsibility beyond their level ox seniority
and technical competence. The Commission also found that some officers were
in general either ignorant of government General Orders or disregarded them.
Finally, it found that the MOF and SIHA did not give the full support to the
project that was expected. Steps have been taken to deal with the
Commission's findings and MEHRD in particular has endeavored to redress these
shortcomings in this and subsequent projects.
39.       In the third phase of the project, all remaining aspects of the
project were completed under the management of the IPU experienced with the
Secondary Education Project. However, this unit also found its work delayed
by other government authorities on whom it had to rely and the problem of co-
operation and co-ordination between different ministries is being reviewed.
40.       While the lack of qualified azd experienced officers, and poor co-
ordination and co-operation among ministries helps explain why delays and
difficulties occurred, they do not tell the full story. The first phase of
the project came to be marked by too little accountability of the project to
MEHRD officials because they placed too much reliance on one expatriate; as a
consequence, no MEHRD official insisted on the establishment of a PCC and the
original objective of acquiring textbooks and teaching materials was allowed
to be altered without sufficient analysis.
41.       MEHRD has learned from the problems encountered in this project--
particularly of the need for Solomon Islanders to be in charge (project
management, curriculum development), for a PCC to be functional and for the
project to be incorporated into the on-going work of the MEHRD (planning,
primary teacher training). It has also gained expertise in government
tendering procedures, stores requisition, dealing with the Junta (a central
accounts committee), and compliance with SIG Financial Instructions and
General Orders.
Relationshiy Between the Bank and the Borrower
42.       SIG maintained great faith in the technical ability of the Bank to
guide it throughout the project, while the Bank had great confidence in the
ability of the Government to implement the project in the first 4-5 years.
Mutual trust and cordiality were tharefore noticeable during most of the
implementation period. It is now apparent though, that both parties should
have made more effort to know and understand each other. SIG for its part
should have better understood the Bank's view that SIG or its agent had full



- 17 -
responsibility for project management and implementation, while the Bank
should have provided greater and more regular support in project monitoring
and implementation more frequent visits from the Bank, more assistance with
technical aspects of the project, eapecially financial, and visits by an
educationist to assist with the educational aspects of the project.
Evaluation of the PerSraNLcf theLg vlnancier and-itsAelat_ionship wLth the
Borrower
43.       There was one cofinancier of the project:  AIDA8.  The EEC and New
Zealand both funded complementary items simultaneously with the project. The
Rotary Club of Australia also became involved with the project when it offered
to assist with supervising the erection of an additional 75 classrooms
following the devastation caused by Cyclone Namu in 1986, with the materials
being provided by AIDAB. This was highly successful, with teams of three
volunteers coming from Rotary Clubs throughout Australia at their own expense
to live in villages while supervising classroom construction by the villagers.
44.       AIDAB financed part of the cost of the construction at SICHE and
provided considerable supplementary assistance in the provision of reading
materials and training workshops for use by teachers. The EEC provided S8D
179,000 to assist with the cost of providing 100 teachers, houses in rural
areas throughout the country. The New Zealand Government contributed SBD
100,000 originally to help build teachers' houses. Much of this, however, was
subsequently spent on teacher inservice training. rhe contribution of these
cofinanciers was welcomed and relations between each of them and SIG were
cordial at all times.
Contribution to Educational Develonment of Each of the Objectives of the
Proiject
45.       Although not specifically called for in the Guidelines for
Preparinc Proiect ,-'ompletion Reports, this section is added to give an
assessment of the impact on educational development by the project, and to
draw attention to certain matters of project design and government planning
referred to in other parts of this report.  The Guidelines necesenrily focus
on project strategies and components of the strategies; this section focuses
on education objectives.
46.       one of the objectives was to help improve education management at
various levels through provision of training for national and provincial
administrators. The project has enhanced educational management, as seen by
the careers of most of those trained under the project; most noticeable are
the present Chief of Primary Education, the Director of the Secondary
Education Project, and the Director of SICHE. Others are now headmasters and
deputy headmasters in primary and secondary schools, members of the schools
inspectorate, and in senior positions in national and provincial educational
administration.



- 18 -
47.       Another strategy for improving education management was the
proposal to appoint a deputy project director with responsibility for advising
on education planning. The position of deputy director was never created, no
education plan was developed before or during the project, and no studies were
commissioned to develop education data bases (as distinct from curriculum).
This lack of education planning noticeably weakened any efforts to improve
education management. since there were no reliable data bases to assist
management decision-making.
48.       Another objective was to upgrade education quality through improved
inservice teacher training and provision of textbooks and teaching materials.
Considerable inservice training of teachers occurred at the national.
provincial and district levels, in the subject areas of English, mathematics,
physical education, community studies, science and agriculture. Textbooks,
teachers' guides and supplementary teaching materials were purchased and
distributed to all schools. New curricula were developed, and in content and
orientation reflect more accurately the lifestyles and values of Solomon
Islanders.
49.       A third objective was to increase primary enrollments through
provision of new school facilities and expansion of preservice teacher
training to provide the needed teachexs. Three hundred permanent classrooms
were built under World Bank funding, along with a further 90 classrooms
constructed under aid from AIDAB and the Rotary Clubs of Australia and 100
teachers, houses paid for largely by LEC funds. The strategy also called for
an increase in the intake of preservice teacher training places from 160 to
400 per year. although this did not occur and the number has actually fallen
to 125 in 1990.
50.       it is difficult to know if t.-e objective to increase primary
enrollments was actually fulf.lled as plcnned.  It proved impossible to find
out whether the 390 new and permanent clktsrooms were in addition to existing
classrooms, or the extent to which they replaced temporary or semi-permanent
ciassrooms over the 7 years during which lhey were constructed.  In 1989, of
the 1,954 primary school classrooms, 36 percent had an estimated life of no
more than 4 years, and a further 15 percent had an estimated life of 5-9
years. Since the cost and actual construction of classrooms is the
responsibility of the community served by the school, it is probable that the
new classrooms effectively replaced temporary or semi-permanent classrooms
which would have had to be replaced in any case over the life of the project.
The most likely conclusion is that the building project improved the quality
of the learning environment rather than increased the number of pupils.
51.       The intake of preservice trainees could not have increased beyond
160 per annum without a noticeable reduction in academic criteria for entry,
since the number of secondary students did not expand during the life of the
project, and this is the pool from which entrants come. The design of the
project did not take this into account.
52.       The final educational objective was to equalize educational
opportunities among provinces and between the sexes by improving access to
education of good quality in under-served areas. The enrolment ratio (7-14



- 19 -
years age group) rose from 60 percenit to 73 percent nationally iletween 1980
and 1988, and similar increases occurred in all but two provinces. The
proportion of female students rose from 41 to 44 percent during the same
period. While these statistics show a significant and steady improvement in
access to education, it is more likely that the improvement is the result of
MEHRD policies or local initiatives than of project design or implementation.
53.       Total enrollment of pupils rose between 1980 and 1988 by 81 percent
while the population rose by 27 percent. This increase was made possible by
employing increasing numbers of completely untrained teachers throughout the
period, and they now constitute 38 percent of the primary teaching force
compared with 23 percent in 1980. The fact that the proportion of 7-14 year
olds in school increased from 60 to 73 percent in this period is attributable
mainly to MEHRD and to the provinces having rigorously enforced entry age
levels after 1981, so that younger pupils did not distort the statistical
calculations.
54.       There was no specific strategy in the project to meet the objective
of increased female enrolment, nor was there any MEHRD or provincial
initiative. The increase is most likely to have occurred at family and
village level where the need to have more females educated became more
recognized.
Conclusion
55.       The project more or less met all its objectives:  improving
education management, upgrading education quality, increasing primary
enrollments, and equalizing education opportunities. Other factors helped the
project meet its aims, such as provincial governments increasingly employing
untrained teachers to permit rapid expansion of primary enrollments, and the
government enforcing its policy on age of entry to school. The project would
have had a more profound impact on primary education if attention had been
given to education planning as was intended in the original project design.



- 20 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
56.       Related Bank Credits.  This was the first World Bank Credit in the
education sector in Solomon Islands. With SIG conscious of its limitations to
borrow funds during its early stages of independence, the Secondary Education
Project was approached cautiously. It complemented the first by concentrating
on lower secondary education and by establishing a management and planning
unit to ensure more effective implementation than had occurred during the
first two phases of the Primary Education Project.
Table 3.1: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Loan/Credit                                               Year of
Title                        Purpose                    Approval  Status
Secondary Educa-  To help the Government ensure an          1986    Under imple-
tion Project       adequate supply of suitably trained              mentation
(Credit 1986-     manpower for formal employment and
SOL)               higher levels of education by impr-
oving educational opportunity and
quality in lower secondary educa-
tion and strengthening education
sector management.
57.       Proiect Timetable.  Considering the Government's recent emergence
into independence, the identification and preparation of this project
proceeded relatively smoothly and quickly. Preparation required more than one
mission and this slightly delayed the planned appraisal and subsequent
schedule. The advantage of additional preparation was that different Bank
officials visited the country and held detailed discussions with SIG officials
(mainly from MEP). The timetable was realistic. Implementation proceeded
ahead of schedule in the first phase. Reasons for the hiatus from 1985-88
have been detailed in Part I and account for the subsequent two-year extension
of project closing.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Project Stage                Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification               April 1980                 May 1980
Preparation                  August 1980                August 1980 - March 1981
Appraisal mission            January 1981               April 1981
Credit negotiations          September 1981             January 1982
Board approval               --                         March 2, 1982
Signature                    --                         April 28, 1982
Effectiveness                January 1982               July 1, 1982
Completion                   June 1987                  May 15, 1990
Closing                      December 31, 1987          December 31, 1989
Note:  n__n means none or not applicable.
58.       Estimated and Actual Disbursements.  With the project becoming
effective in July 1982, initial disbursements were not anticipated until 1983.
However, the expatriate project director quickly arranged for fellows to study
abroad and for payment to be made on cornstruction contracts for the SITC.
These major early expenditures are reflected in the percentage rate of
disbursements through 1985 and clearly illustrated in the Disbursements Chart
(Table 3.4).
Table 3.3: ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
PY1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990 Total
Appraisal ($ millions):
Annual                   0.10  0.20  0.60  1.10  1.70  1.30                 5.00
Cumulative               0.10  0.30  0.90  2.00  3.70  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00
(SDR 4.3)
Actual (millions):
SDR                      0.00  2.15  0.91  0.33  0.11  0.06  0.36  0.37  4.29
$                        0.00  2.26  0.91  0.35  0.13  0.08  0.48  0.47  4.68
Cumulative (millions):
SDR                      0.00  2.15  3.06  3.39  3.50  3.56  3.92  4.29  4.29
$                        0.00  2.26  3.17  3.52  3.65  3.73  4.21  4.68  4.68
Actual as
% of estimate               0   753   352   176    99    75    84    94    94
(SDR 100)
Date of final disbursement:  May 15, 1990



- 22
Table 3.4:  DISBURSEMENT CHART
5.0 -
45 . O - 
4.5                                                       <, 
$                                                      /     -o
4.0
m #
i  3.5
1 /
1  3.0       -
i/                               
o  2.5
n                                       /
s 2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5/
0
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Fiscal Year
Estimate
- - - - Actual
59.       Credit funds were reallocated once in order to provide greater
responsiveness to the devaluation of the SBD. Changes in the percentages for
disbursement were also made for some categories of the Credit. However, due to
confusion over the relationship between the SDR and the SBD, insufficient
advantage was taken of the changes in exchange rates to purchase additional
items until immediately prior to project closing. Table 3.5 indicates the
enormous changes in exchange rates and would have been helpful to project
management if it had been available progressively throughout the project.



- 23 -
Table 3.5: AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES FOR THE SBD
CY                  $             AUD$             SDR
1981             1.1507           0.9964           0.9771
1982              1.0346          1.0161           0.9366
1983             0.8788           0.9746           0.8098
1984             0.7861           0.8939           0.7601
1985             0.6770           0.9657           0.6664
1986             0.5769           0.8607           0.4940
1987             0.4997           0.7128           0.3865
1988             0.4803           0.6153           0.3578
1989             0.4365           0.5513           0.3408
1990 La          0.4039           0.5268           0.3076
/a Up to end of June.
Source: Research Department, Central Bank of Solomon Islands, July 31, 1990.
60.       IDA Disbursements by Credit Aareement Cateaory.  Financial records
for the project are incomplete.  While the record of actual disbursements for
items of expenditure against Credit funds seem to be reasonably accurate, a
detailed review of the records in the MOF (see Table 3.23 for an annual
compilation of expenditures in SBD and roughly equivalent USS) suggests that
categories of expenditure were confused, that some local expenditures were not
recorded against the project but were absorbed into other categories of expense
from the MEHRD, that expenditures covered by cofinanciers are only partially
recorded and that counterpart (local) expenditures from other ministries,
agencies, provincial and district sources cannot be traced.
Table 3.6: IDA DISBURSEMENTS BY CREDIT AGREEMENT CATEGORY
Credit Agreement         Actual
Category     Description                      SDR         %        SDR
1         Civil works                     860,000     20       603,681      14
2         Building materials            1,810,000      42    2,664,870      62
teaching materials,
furniture and equipment
3         Fellowships and               1,380,000      32      929,643      22
specialist services
4         Unallocated                     250,000       6            0       0
Canceled or
exchange adjustment                                 101,806       2
Total                     4,300.000    100    4,300.000    100



- 24 -
61.       Proisect Costs by Maior Tvye of Expenditure.  As discussed earlier,
insufficient data are available to provide a comprehensive account of project
costs or project financing. By combining several of the categories or types of
expenditure used in the project accounting records and calculating the US$
equivalent for each year for each line item, an estimate has been made of the
possible government contribution ($0.8 million) to the major project items
(Table 3.8). It is purely coincidental that the estimated project cost and the
actual recorded expenditures in SBD are roughly equivalent. However, Table 3.7
does not reflect expenditures on the project by any of the cofinanciers and
hence should not be considered an accurate estimate of project costs.
Table 3.7:  PROJECT COSTS BY MAJOR TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(millions)
Type of                  AMraisal Estimate            Actual Proiect Data Lb
expenditure /L             SBD         $                 SBD           $ /c
Civil works (SICHE         0.3        0.3                1.4          1.0
and site works)
Building materials         2.8        3.2                1.5 }
Furniture                  0.4        0.4                1.2 }       2.7
Equipment, teaching        0.6        0.7                1.3 }
materials and books
Professional services      0.4        0.4                0.1         0.1
Technical assistance       1.6        1.9                3.3          1.8
Contingencies              2.7        3.1                -           -
8.8      10.0                8.8          5.6 lc
ia   Some subitems in the SAR have been placed in different types of expenditure
to reflect project data categories.
lb   Based on average annual exchange rate for each year of the project (see
Table 3.5). This exchange rate variation accounts for the relative
difference in US$ equivalent compared to SBD.
/c   Not including AIDAB/New Zealand/EEC financing of about $3.3 million of $0.1
million in cancellation and exchange adjustments which would bring the
total to $9.0 million.
62.       Proiect Financing.  At appraisal, 50 percent of the financing was
planned to be contributed by IDA and 17 percent by AIDAB. With the SBD
devaluation throughout the life of the project, SIG's contribution of 33 percent
was reduced considerably, as more goods and services were able to be procured
through IDA and AIDAB funding. In addition, AIDAB increased its contribution
through supplementary grants for various items including training, provision of
reading materials and additional classrooms (Part II). While AIDAB expenditures
are not currently available, it is estimated that about $3 million might have
been spent. Even with this figure and the estimated contributions from New
Zealand and EEC not envisaged at appraisal, the total cost of the project in
equivalent US$ appears less than the originally estimated $10 million.



- 25 -
Table 3.8S  PROJECT PINC2J
Planned                                               Actual
-ItimatSd                                         Estimated
_,V million acuivalent          saare of            UvS million eauivalent   * hare of
Local    Govern-                           IDA      Govern-       AmaB/New                   7DA
Category                    coimui-    sent    ADB   IDA  Total  financing           mit        Zealand/  MDA   Total  financing
ties
Civil works                     0.7       0.      1.0   1.0   3.2       311         0.3         1.0       0.7   2.0        35%
Builling materials
furniture. equipmnt
and teaching matarials         -        0.7      -    2.1   2.8        75%          -          1.3       2.7   4.0       67t
Professional services            -        0.4      -      -    0.4        -          0.1         -          -    0.1       -
Technical assistance             -        0.5     0.4   1.6   2.5        65t          -          1.0       1.0   2.0       50t
Local tsaining                   -        0.2      -      -    0.2       -           0.6          -        0.2   0.8        25%
Unallocated                      -        0.3     0.3   0.3   0.9        33%          -           -        0.1I  0.1       100l
Total                        0.7       2.6     1.7   5.0  10.0        50s         1.0        3.3        4.7   9.0       52t
Notae - means none ox not aDplicable.
La Estimates onlY: New Zealand and BBC funds were not part of the original project.
/   Bxbange sdustmetnt  and 9DRt cancellation.
63.               Project Results.  The key quantitative indicators of project
implementation show that most of the targets set at appraisal have been met.
Most of these have already been reviewed in Parts I and II of this report.
Table 3.9 presents these indicators and their appraisal references. Some of
the more detailed data on which these indicators are based are presented in
Tables 3.13 to 3.24 inclusively.



- 26 -
Table 3.9: PROJECT RESULTS
Project
Appraisal         Actual/Achievements         Target
Indicator                         1981      1982    1984    1986   1988/a   1986   SAR Reference
xm_ryS Sool  Enrollmen
Grade 1                           6.730    7,240   8.777   8.719   9,042   8.790  Table 3.1
2                          5.734    5,777   7,555   7,189   8,224   7.620
3                          4,488    5,536   6,496   6,860   7.870   7,205
4                          4,367    4,223   5,711   6,553   6,803   6.381
5                          4,067    4,074   5,124   5,465   7.047   5,651
6                          3,867    3,766   3.859   4,777   5.789   4.953
Total                         29.253   30.616  37.522  39.563  52.974  40.600
Number of Primary Schools           369       376      423     430      485     400
Primary Enrollment Ratio (%)         60        NA      63       NA       73      67  Table 2.6
Para. 3.09
Female Enrollment (%)                42        42      NA       44       44      48  Table 2.9
Para. 2.20
Primary Teachers
Number                          1,i71    1,199   1,536   1,849   2.305   1,450  Tables 2.3, 2.4
% trained                          74        76      68       51      51       50
Student:Teacher Ratio                26        26       24      21       23      28  Para. 2.15
SICIE
Primary Trainee Intake             -         99     164      179      167     360  Para. 3.11
Trained Primary Graduates          -         NA      NA       14      106     170
Education Management Staff
National officers                  20        NA      NA       NA      llO/b    25  Table 2.1
Provincial officers                40        NA      NA       NA       45      80
Secondary school principals        15        NA      NA       NA       22      25
Primary school headmasters        370        NA      NA       NA     435      400
Technical Assistance
Project Director and 4 staff        5         1        1      -                 5  Paras. 3.03.
3.05,4.01
Curriculum developers              -         -        16/c            --        0
Fellowshios
Overseas (education and
management)           34                         22jd                  Paras. 3.02, 3.04
(multigrade)             20                         24Ld
In country (management)            -                          30/d
Studies                        $0.1 mil                      $0.03/d/                 Para. 3.15
Note:  nNAO means not available, nl-I, means none or not applicable.
/a Last year for which data are consistently available.
.b Data for 1990.
/c Between 1983 and 1986, short-term consultants visited the country.
jd Over the life of the project.
/e Incomplete data; see table 3.22.
64.          Status of Covenants.  The three major covenants have baen complied
with, although it must be noted that the requirement to "prepare a plan" is
relatively easily fulfilled. The spirit of the covenants, that is the
implementing of such plans, is not so easily accomplished. Indeed, while the



- 27 -
alternate year intake practice was abolished, no record of multigrade teaching
has been kept and teacher trainee targets have definitely not been met. On
the other hand, the spirit of building classrooms has been accomplished and it
is not of major concern that one provincial government rather than the local
communities contributed to this effort. Of more serious concern is the poor
performance of the auditors and the lax financial record-keeping, both of
which have been reflected in inadequate accounting of project expenses and
finances.
Table 3.10: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Credit
Agreement
Section       Description of Covenant                  Current Status
Article 3.06  By 12/31/82 prepare plan to phase        In compliance.
out alternate year intake practice
and implement multigrade teacher
technique in most primary schools.
Article 3.07  By 12/31/82 prepare plan to ensure    In compliance.
MET enrollment targets met for
primary teacher trainees.
Article 3.08  Only communities that have formally   In compliance except for
indicated willingness and ability to  Malaita Province where
erect and maintain primary schools    provincial government
and provide adequate sites, etc.        instead of communities
shall participate in Part B.2 of the  themselves has provided
Project.                                teacher housing and paid
for labor.
65.       Use of Bank Resources.  Data available on Bank staff inputs to the
project is scanty, presumably because the computerized time-recording system
was not operational from the beginning of the project. Hence, only total time
actually spent on each phase has been recorded in Table 3.11. Supervision
reports reveal the limited time spent in the field by each mission (Table
3.12), with only three exceptions. It should also be realized that for all
missions from 1986, time was devoted to the Secondary Education Project which
may not always be recorded accurately. In comparison with many other projects
in this sector, the total number of missions and the total staff days in the
field are very low.



- 28 -
Table 3.11: USE OF BANK( RESOuRRCES
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned          Final              Comments
-- (staff weeks) --
Through appraisal                      NA           24.0         Information available
Appraisal through                                                includes only total
Board approval                        NA           11.3        time actually spent
Board approval                                                   at each stage.
through Effectiveness                 NA              NA
Supervision                            NA           35.7
Total                                            71.0
Note: "NA" means not available.
Table 3.12: MISSION DATA
Number                            Performance
Stage of project                        of    Days in  Specialization    rating   Type of
cycle              Month/year    persons  field /a represented /b  status /c  problems /d
Through appraisal       Jan 1982         3       30         A, GE, B
Appraisal through
Board approval        Mar 1982         *        *                                       -
Board approval
through Effectiveness  Jul 1982       -        -
Supervision
I              Aug 1982         1        7             GE            I            M
II              May 1983         1        2             A             1          Ml F
III              Apr 1984         1        7             E             1           -
IV              Oct 1984         1        2             A             I            M
V              Mar 1985         1        2             A             1            M
VI              Oct/Nov 1986     2       20           A, GE          1I
VII              Sep 1987         1       10             8             2          O, M
VIII              Mar 1988         2       14           E, GE           3         o, M, D
IX              Jun 1988         1        4             E             3         O, M, D
X              Oct 1988         2       19           A, GE           2         O, M, D
XI              Jun 1989         1        6             GE            2          M, P
XII              Nov/Dec 1989     1       10             GE            2          M, P
Subtotal               103
Completion         Jul 1990         1        6             GE           -
Total                  109
Notes:  a-f means none or not applicable.
n*n means unable to locate in Bank's file.
/a In person-days spent on this project. For combined missions, duration is approximate.
fb GE - General Educator; B - Economist; A - Architect.
/c 1 - Problem free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problems; 3 - Major problems.
Ld 0 - Overall; D - Development impact; F - Funds availability, M - Managerial; P - Procurement.



- 29 -
Table 3.13: PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS BY GRADE, 1980-88
Number
Grades                                        of
Preparatory    1       2       3      4       5      6    Total   schools
1980       -        6,772  4,724  4,760  4,416  4,204  4,044  28,920    370
1981       -        6,730  5,734  4,488  4,367  4,067  3,867  29,253    369
1982       -        7,240  5,777  5,536  4,223  4,074  3,766  30,616    376
1983       -        8,996  5,532  5,916  5,423  4,176  3,910  33,953    409
1984       -        8,777  7,555  6,496  5,711  5,124  3,859  37,522    423
1985       -        8,477  7,347  7,275  5,874  5,349  4,394  38,716    423
1986       -        8,719  7,189  6,860  6,553  5,465  4,777  39,563    430
1987       -        ---                     NA ----------- ---------    485
1988    8,204       9,042  8,224  7,870  6,803  7,047  5,789  52,979    485
Notes: Preparatory Year was introduced in about 1983, but was not counted in
the school census until 1987.
"NA" means not available.  a__@  means none or not applicable.
Source:   Ministry of Finance.  Statistics Office, 1985/86 Statistical
Yearbook. Table 13.3, Statistical Bulletins 6/88 and 13/89.



- 30 -
Table 3.14: NUMBERS OF PRIMARY SCHOOLS AND ENROLLMENT
BY AGENCY, 1981-88
Govermentt              Non-Government                 Total      _
Number of   Enrollment   Number of   Enrollment   Number of   Enrollment
Year   Schools       ('000)       Schools       ('000)       Schools       ('000)
1981     299          25.5           70           3.8          369         29.3
1982     309          26.7           67           3.9          376         30.6
1983     337          29.3           72           4.7          409          34.0
1984     369          34.1           54           3.4          423         37.5
1985     373          35.3           50           3.4          423         38.7
1986     388          36.6           42           3.0          430         39.6
1987     427          39.9           58           4.1          485         44.0
1988     427          48.7           58           4.3          485         53.0
Note:  Government school enrollment increased by 91 percent in comparison to
the total enrollment increase of 81 percent.
Source: Ministry of Finance. Statistics Office. 1985/86 Statistical
Yearbook. Table 13.2, Statistical Bulletins 6/88 and 13/89.



- 31 -
Table 3.15: TRAINED AND UNTRAINED PRIMARY TEACHERS, 1980-88
Fully Trained        Partially Trained         Untrained
Year       Number    %          Number         %          Number   %        Total
1980         616      53        281            24         275     23        1,172
1981         869      74         NALa          NA         302     26        1,171
1982         906      76         NA            NA         293     24        1,199
1983       1,067      77         NA            NA         325     23        1,392
1984       1,039      68         NA            NA         497     32        1,536
1985         778      52         NA            NA         718     48        1,496
1986         937      51         NA            NA         912     49        1,849
1987         966      50        251            13         715     37        1,932
1988       1,171      51        247            11         887     38        2,305
/a   From 1981-86 separate figures are not available.  Partially trained
primary teachers are included in the untrained category.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Statistics Office. 1985/86 Statistical Yearbook.
Statistical Bulletins 6/88 and 13/89.



- 32 -
Table 3.16: PRIMARY ENROLLMENT RATIOS BY PROVINCES
Enrollment ratio M%}
Province             1980           1985           1988
Western                 64            67             81
Ysabel                  62            79             75
Central                 71            69             70
Guaealcanal             53            61             68
Honiara                 73            82             73
Malaita                 48            52             68
Makira                  64            72             85
Temotu                  56            65             78
Solomon Islands         60            63            73
Sourcess World Bank Staff Appraisal Report - Solomon
Islands, Primary Education Project, January
1982, Table 2.6
Ministry of Finance, Statistics Office -
Statistical Bulletin No. 13/89; Report on the
Census of Population 1986, Report 2A, Basic
Table 7; Report on the Census of Population
1976, Volume 2, Table 4.6; 1985/86
Statistical Yearbook, Table 13.6B.



- 33 -
Table 3.17: PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT BY SEX, 1980-88
Year           Male           Female            Total           % Female
--------------   (  OOO)  -- --- -- --
1980         16.9            12.0             28.9                 41
1981         17.1            12.2             29.3                 42
1982         17.7            12.9             30.6                 42
1983         20.0            14.9             35.0                 43
1984           NA              NA             37.5                 NA
1985           NA              NA             38.7                 NA
1986         22.3            17.2             39.6                 44
1987           NA              NA             44.0                 44
1988         29.5            23.5             53.0                 44
Note: "NA" means not available.
Source: Ministry of Finance. Statistics Office 1986/86. Statistical
Yearbook. Table 13.2, Statistical Bulletins 6/8 and 13/89.



- 34 -
Table 3.18: PUBLIC SERVANTS IN THE EDUCATION AND
HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT CADRE
1980            1990
National Education Officers                         20             242/a
Provincial Education Officers (PEO)                 40              45/b
Secondary School Principals                         15             22
Primary School Headmasters                        370             485
/a   Of whom:  Ill in Department of Education
72 teaching staff in 2 national secondary schools
12 curriculum officers.
/b   Distributed among the Provinces:
Guadalcanal       8
Temotu            S
Central           5
Ysabel            4
Makira            4
Western          11
Malaita           8
Source: Solomon Islands Government, 1990. Approved Recurrent Establishment.



- 35 -
Table 3.19: ENROLLMENTS AND GRADUATES IN PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
[CERTIFICATe OF EDUCAT:ON (PRIMARY)]
Year          Foundation La            Year 1           Year 2           Graduates
1982                --                   99/b              NA               NA
1983                --                  110/b              NA               NA
1984                --                  164/b              NA               NA
1985               228                    0/L             133              118
1986               207                  179/d               0               14/e
1987               197                  134               121              101
1988               101                  167               109              106
1989               100                  112               156              141
Note:  "NA" means not available.  n__n means non or not applicable.
la   The Foundation Year accepts students who hold the Form 3 Certificate.
They receive one year's intensive study in basic subjects to bring them
to Form 5 standard. The attrition rate is 40-60%.
lb   Numbers applying who met entry criteria.  However, usually 10-15 of these
did not enter SECS.
/c   No intake in Year 1 in 1985.
Ld   Year 1, hereafter, contains those who passed the Foundation Year and
those who entered directly with a Form 5 Certificate.
/e   Year 2 students from 1985 who were required to sit supplementary
examinations before graduating.
Source: SICHE. Academic Administration Office and SECS.



- 36 -
Table 3.20: NUMBERS OF FELLOWS AND GRADUATES UNDER THE PROJECT
Number of  Number of   Percent
Institution            Course/Qualification          Fellows   Graduates  Graduated
University of the      Diploma in Educational           30         18           60
South Pacific in       Administration
Solomon Islands
Northern Rivers        Bachelor of Education            12         11           92
College of Advanced
Education and Darling
Downs Institute of
Education, Australia
Darling Downs          Graduate Diploma in               2          1           50
Institute of           Tertiary Administration
Education, Australia
Northern Rivers        Associate Diploma of              4          3           75
College of Advanced    Business Studies
Education, Australia
Certificate in Multilevel       25         23           92
Teaching
University of Sydney,  Master of Arts                    1          1          100
Australia
Armidale College of    Bachelor of Education             3          3          100
Advanced Education,
Australia
Diploma in Teaching              2          2          100
Brisbane College of    Diploma in Teaching               6          6          100
Advanced Education,
Australia
Total                                             85          68          80
Note:  Funding for most of these courses was provided by AIDAB.
Sources:  Primary Education Project Files.  Report of the Commission of Inquiry
into the World Bank Primary Education Project, Honiara, 1988.



- 37 -
Table 3.21: SAMPLE OF INSERVICE TRAINING WORKSHOPS FOR PRIMARY TEACHERS La
Subject                                   Dates
Mathematics                                  July 24 - August 4, 1985
English and mathematics                      November 11 - December 6, 1985
Physical education                           February 6-10, 1989
February 20-24, 1989
February 27 - March 10, 1989
Community studies                            March 20-31, 1989
April 3-14, 1989
April 17-28, 1989
Science and agriculture                      May 1-12, 1989
May 15-26, 1989
la   Records are incomplete and very poor.  No indication of the numLer of
participants.



- 38 -
Table 3.22: STUDIES LINKED TO THE PROJECT /a
Cost
Date   Consultant            Subject of Study                         (S approx.)
1983   Mr. E. Fitzgerald  Report on the Development of Computing         5,000
Systems for the Ministry of Education,
Training and Cultural Affairs.
1983   Dr. K.J. Doyle     Report on Educational Planning and             5,000
Organizational Structure of the
Ministry of Education, Training and
Cultural Affairs.
1983   Mr. M. Trask       Report on the Selection and Management         4,545
of Educational Resources in the
Provincial Resource Centers
1983   Mr. P. McNally     Development of a Library/resource              4,000
Center within the Solomon Islands
College of Higher Education
1984   Dr. A.R. Thomas    The Inservice Training Needs of                2,440
Ministry of Education Senior Staff.
1988   Geoffrey Coyne     Provincial Secondary Schools, School            2,500
Leaver Tracer Survey
1989   Dr. S.S. Dunn      Education Sector Plan, 1990-1994                4,500
1989   Mr. M.B. Habu      Strategies for Educational Development
in 1990's                                      3,500
1989/  Ms. Lois Goodes    Solomons Islands Facilities and
90   Ms. Janet          Location Survey, 1989 Primary and
Mattiske       Secondary Schools                              45,000
/a   This list was compiled from reports available in the IPU, from World Bank
files and from Ministry of Finance History Sheets.



Table 3.23: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY YEAR AND PURPOSE
1982      1983        1984        1985        1986      1987       1988      1989       1990     Total (SBD)
Site works                            --       59,044     8,549      772,384         --       139         --         60         --     840,176
Provincial classrooms              5,307      735,770   237,035      101,811   231,297   97,946       59,573    43,700          --   1,512,439
SITC construction                     --      493,630    44,891            --        --        --         --         --         --     538,521
Professional fees                  2,805       56,161    25,988        1,516      3,190        --         --         --         --      89,660
Curriculum development/
inservice                           --           --   110,308      326,217    73,105  204,363  1,275,759   659,365           --   2,649,117
Furniture/equipment                   --        9,393   243,2-3      106,048   199,255         --        438   119,240   586,767   1,264,364
SITC library equipment                --      139,033   173,077      538,384    15,468    3,720    155,257   146,198   165,428   1,336,565             1
Educational administration/staff                                                                                                                      %.
development                      .,119       62,837    26,208       38,375    13,216       675          --         --        --      142,430
Project administration            23,668       88,162    44,153        8,193      2,541    1,725          --    39,016   257,808       465,266
Research development/
miscellaneous                       --       41,559    20,763       35,664      1,566      460      53,968   114,452    10,390       278,822
Annual total (SBD)             32,899   1,685.589   934.195   1,928,592   539.638  309,028  1,544,995 1j.1?2,031 1,020.393   9,117.360
S equivalent                      34,037   1,481,296   734,371   1,305,657   269,657  148,426    742,061   489,767   412,137   5,617,409
(at annual average
exchange rates)
Note:  "--" means none or not applicable.
Sources: Ministry of Finance, History Files, 1982-90. Subheads: 424.841 for 1982-84; 418.841 for the remaining years.



Table 3.24: SUMKARY OF ANNUAL EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
(in thousands of SBD and annual $ equivalents)
Credit
Agreement    Equivalent
Category   HOF Categories           Currency    1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     1988      1989     1990       Total
1       Site works         }      SBD           --     552.7      53.4     772.4        --      0.1        --      0.0        --   1,378.6
SITC construction )       $             --     485.7      42.0     522.9        --      0.1        --      0.0        --   1,050.7
2       Provincial classrooms )
Furniture/equipment   ) SBD            5.3     884.2    653.4      746.2    446.0    101.7    215.3    309.1    752.2   4,113.4
SITC library           }  $            5.5     777.0    513.6      505.2    257.3      50.8    103.4    135.0    303.8   2,651.6
3  (a)  Professional fees         SBD          2.8       56.2     26.0        1.5      3.2        --       --        --       --      89.7
$           2.9       49.4     20.4        1.0      1.8        --       --        --       --      75.5
(b)  Curriculum development  }
lnservice training,      )
staff development/educa-)SBD          24.8     192.6    201.4      408.4      90.4    207.2  1,329.7    812.8    268.2   3,535.5
tional administration,  )$            25.6     169.2    158.3      276.5      52.2    103.5    638.7    354.8    108.3   1,887.1          o
project administration, }
research/development/   )
miscellaneous            }
Totals                 SBD        32.9   1.685.7    934.2   1,928.5    539.6    309.0  1.545.0  1,121.9  1,020.4   9,117.2
$          34.0   1,481.3    734.3   1,305.6    311.3    154.4    742.1    489.8    412.1   5,664.9/a
Average currency exchange rate                 1.0346    0.8788   0.7861    0.6770   0.5769   0.4997   0.4803   0.4365   0.4039
Note: "--" means none or not applicable.
la   Total $ equivalent costs vary between Tables 3.23 and 3.24 due to different methods of calculating exchange equivalence.



