Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19989
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(40980; 40981; 28253)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$317 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
FOR ELECTRICITY MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 15, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2000)
Currency Unit = Hryvnia
1 Hryvnia = US$ 0.1779
US$ 1 = 5.6199 Hryvnia
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMA           Energomarket Members Agreement
EMDP          Electricity Market Development Project
EU            European Union
FRP           Financial Recovery Plan
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOU           Government of Ukraine
IDC           Interest During Construction
Minenergo     Ministry of Power and Electrification of Ukraine
NDC           National Dispatch Center
NERC          National Electricity Regulatory Commission
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TA            Technical Assistance
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
VAT           Value-Added Tax
WEM           Wholesale Electricity Market
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:    Luca Barbone, ECC 11
Sector Manager:    David A Craig, ECSEG
Task Team Leader:    Carolyn Gochenour, ECSEG



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
UKRAINE
ELECTRICITY MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    6
6. Sustainability                                                                        7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      10
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Information                                                              18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   27
Appendix: Map (IBRD 27976)
Tbis document has a reslticted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforirnce of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizaion.






Project ID: P044444                                         Project Name: ELECTRICITY MKT. DEV'T.
Team Leader: Carolyn Gochenour                              TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: May 3, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ELECTRICITY MKT. DEV'T.                         L/C/TF Number: 40980; 40981; 28253
CountryIDepartment: UKRAINE                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PT - Thermal; PY - Other Power & Energy
Conversion
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/16/96                                  Effective: 01/31/97           01/31/97
Appraisal:  05/15/96                                   MTR: 12/31/97
Approval:  10/10/96                                  Closing:  12/31/99           09/23/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: UKRAINE/DNIPROENERGO; DONBASSENERGO; ZAKHIDENERGO;
TSENTRENERGO AND NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
Other Partners: Governments of USA, United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and EBRD
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:      Luca Barbone                               Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:       David A. Craig                             Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Carolyn Gochenour                          Laszlo Lovei
ICR Primary Author:  Istvan Dobozi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN-Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negfigible)
Outcome: HU
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Ukraine's economy has been on a continuous decline since independence in 1991. This has particularly
affected the power sector which is suffering from low collection levels, largely in the form of barter and
offset transactions (an offset transaction involves several parties which settle claims against each other in a
circular fashion, not involving cash); low tariffs; and huge arrears. This has also impacted on the physical
condition of the power system which has not been able to spend sufficiently on operation and maintenance,
and equipment renewals and modernization, resulting in frequent blackouts. Furthermore, frequency
control has been wholly inadequate, with adverse implications on system operations, resulting in Ukraine
being effectively disconnected from its neighbor countries including Russia.
In 1994, a Presidential Decree provided for the unbundling of the power system, and the development of a
competitive market for electricity. In the process, inter alia, one nuclear generation company, two
hydroelectric companies, four thermal generation companies, one transmission company and twenty-seven
distribution companies were established. Given the overall context, the Bank recognized that to operate
properly, a competitive market would require: (i) improved collection levels; (ii) access to working capital
enabling generators to procure fuels so that they can submit competing bids; (iii) improved metering
facilities to record power flows; and (iv) improved financial management. Project objectives were thus to
increase the quality and reduce the cost of electricity supply by supporting the Borrower's (i) development
of a competitive electricity market; and (ii) establishing operating conditions in the electricity sector that
encourages electricity companies to seek full cost recovery to ensure sustainability of operations.
The Project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) paper which underscored the
importance of structural reforms in the Ukrainian context, and the objectives of the operation were clear
and consistent with the Government priorities at the time. However, the Project was particularly
demanding on the authorities, which were required, inter alia, to take stem measures against customers in
default, reduce support to privileged groups, and pursue socially painful tariff adjustments. Against this
background, the Government was also pursuing difficult adjustment policies, particularly in the industrial
sector, which it was unable to support in a tangible fashion; furthermore it could not meet its payroll and
pension obligations on a timely basis.
The Project largely focused on the thermal generation companies (an earlier operation--still under
implementation--supported the rehabilitation of hydroelectric plants) which accounted for about 60% of
Ukraine's installed capacity and produced the most expensive power in the system. Given the rapid decline
in demand (total generation declined from 296 TWh in 1990 to 193 TWh in 1995 and 173 TWh in 1998),
thermal power plants were most affected by the downturn and accounted for more than 80% of the overall
generation decline. Thus, the restructuring and privatization of the four thermal generation companies had
high priority, including plant closings and resulting layoffs, but was not considered politically feasible at
the time. (The government undertook to privatize generation and distribution "over the medium- and
long-term" under a Statement of Electricity Sector Policy provided in connection with the Project.)
Nevertheless, the introduction of a competitive wholesale market (called Energomarket or power pool), all
the more so in a predominantly public sector environment, may not have been the optimal approach to
address sectoral priorities, and was highly risky.
In all, it is arguable whether the introduction of deep structural reforms in the power sector was appropriate
given the rampant payment crisis, the significant decline in demand leading to excess capacity and the
reduction in income levels together with significant upward adjustments in energy prices.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
Project obejctives were not modified.
3.3 Original Componenits:
The project design components, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were as follows (excluding
financial charges):
(a) Fuels (US$147.1 million). This component was designed to build up fuel stocks at 14 power plants to
standard industry levels (about 40 days for coal and mazut).
(b) Spare Parts, Equipment and Urgent Maintenance (US$139.6 million). This component was designed to
(i) increase the stock of essential spare parts and equipment; and (ii) carry out deferred maintenance at 14
power plants.
(c) Metering and Communications (US$74.6 million). This component was designed to install metering
and communications equipment to improve recording and billing of electricity flows at key wholesale
market delivery points.
(d) Technical Services (US$9.3 million). This component was designed to provide consulting services and
training for project implementation, financial management and the development of a sector privatization
program.
The scope of the Project was consistent with its objectives. However, fuels accounted for nearly 40% of
the Project cost. Meeting the working capital requirements of the generation companies through their
borrowing long term (to finance fuel purchases) is arguable from a financial standpoint, given that their
liquidity shortfall essentially stemmed from the inability of the distributors to pay for power purchases.
The Project assumed that the improvement in payment collection (as a condition of Board presentation)
would be maintained over time, enabling distributors to pay for the generated electricity and thus making
the generators solvent (this was reinforced by the requirement on the generators to maintain minimum fuel
stock levels throughout the year). This proved to be an over-ambitious expectation.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project design was not revised during implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project was selected for Quality at Entry assessment by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG).
The QAG report dated December 27, 1997, found the quality at entry to be marginally satisfactory. The
following positive features were noted: (i) clear focus on the development of a competitive power pool; (ii)
substantial progress in establishing a framework for the electricity wholesale market and in improving tariff
levels; (iii) well-coordinated and focused Technical Assistance program; (iv) innovative design; and (v) the
possibility of quick exit (through suspension of the Loan) when the Government's commitment faltered.
However, the positive aspects were weakened by the overall approach taken to address the fundamental
problem of financial sustainability of sector entities in the context of an illiquid system with no incentives to
-3 -



operate as a market, particularly at the distribution level, where much of the problem originated. Bank
experience elsewhere indicates that a strong push towards downstream and upstream privatization should
be at the heart of an assistance operation like the EMDP. Strong private participation in generation,
distribution and supply companies is essential to make the electricity market work. By not addressing this
fundamental issue in a major and direct way under the EMDP, the old payments/collection/barter system
was preserved, thereby undermining the operation of the Energomarket.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Underlying the implementation of the Project, there were about 60 covenants (many similar covenants were
applicable to all five beneficiaries) and other conditions, largely financial, which were designed to: (i)
restructure the financial condition of the generators and the dispatch company in parallel with the
introduction of the competitive wholesale market; (ii) ensure the industry's profitability particularly by
removing price caps and other Government-imposed constraints and requiring that the full legitimate costs
of electricity supply (including subsidies to privileged groups) be recognized by the regulator; (iii) improve
the liquidity of the industry by requiring, in particular, the distributors to apply strict disconnection
policies; (iv) ensure the industry's sustainability by requiring that certain ratios be observed; and (v)
improve the reporting through the introduction of International Accounting Standards.
In practice, however,
*   Notwithstanding the requirement that balance sheets be restructured (largely through the
rescheduling of arrears) during project preparation and approval, and assurances received to that
effect, effectively no action was taken, so the financial soundness of the industry has deteriorated
further in recent years;
-   Except for short periods, price (bid) caps were in effect on the wholesale market for thermal
generators (as well as for hydro and nuclear generators--the latter were prevented from recovering
the costs of spent fuel treatment and decommissioning) in order to maintain affordable retail tariffs.
Furthermore, as a result of political interference, the authority to set household tariffs was
withdrawn from the regulator, at least temporarily. Lastly, the regulator's tariff instructions have
not been always followed, and some distributors have been charging below the authorized rates
with adverse implications on sector finances;
*   Collection levels increased in advance of Board Presentation to exceed 90% (20% in cash) but
continuously declined thereafter to reach 60% in 1999 (7% in cash). Collection levels have been,
inter alia, affected by the reported refusal of the seven privatized distributors to deposit their sales
receipts into the central "transit account," as required under the rules of the Energomarket
Members Agreement (EMA), the basic document for the power pool;
*   The industry has not been able to maintain key ratios affecting, for instance, fuel stocks, and at
least one generator (Tsentrenergo) has borrowed long term without prior consultation with the
Bank; and
*   Intemational Accounting Standards are only being introduced now. While some Ukrainian
officials maintain that the electricity industry is "profitable", the valuation of most of the revenue
(i.e., barters and "offsets") is open to question.
- 4 -



The authorities continue to allocate coal to power plants ("state reserve coal" may account for 50% of
power plant coal consumption) as well as cash to various sector entities. Furthermore, the quality of
electricity supply is low, with frequent load shedding (in a country with considerable excess generating
capacity). Under the circumstances, in light of the Project objectives, the outcome of the Project can only
be rated as Highly Unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
In parallel with loan processing, procurement was initiated for coal and fuel oil, to meet the requirements of
the 1996/97 winter. The Loan became effective on January 31, 1997; contracts with suppliers were signed
10 days later, and deliveries took place in March 1997, thus missing the winter demand peak. Although the
fuel bidding process was conducted well in advance to allow coal/mazut deliveries to be completed before
the onset of the winter season, delays in Loan ratification (hence in effectiveness) led to late contract
signing. All fuel contracts were signed between January 31 and February 10, 1997, immediately after
Loan effectiveness, and disbursements promptly followed.
As the Loan was suspended in July 1997 (and canceled in September 1999), the above constituted the only
procurement action initiated under the Loan. A total of US$76.4 million was disbursed (out of Loan
amount of US$317 million).
Once the fuel was procured and bumed, the distributors proved unable to pay for the power, and by
October 1997, the stocks were depleted resulting again in lack of competition, blackouts and poor service.
More importantly, the four generators found themselves saddled with new debt for which the Ministry of
Finance demanded payments in cash, as opposed to "offsets", the traditional form of payment until then.
On the positive side, this component demonstrated the benefits of cash-based competitive tendering for
fuels in the Ukrainian context, as many companies participated in the tender, the quotations received were
attractive, and the quality of fuels received was superior (in terms of heat rates and environmental
standards). On the whole, still, the outcome of this component is unsatisfactory, given its adverse
long-term impact on the generators' financial condition.
Given the suspension of the Loan, the procurement of fuels for the 1997/98 winter, of essential spare parts
and of metering and communications equipment did not take place, so these components of the Project had
no impact.
Regarding Technical Assistance (TA), this item was largely funded by external donors (USAID, British
Know How Fund, CIDA, EU/TACIS; the EBRD approved a loan for the sector in December 1996 with a
TA component but the Loan was subsequently canceled). Against an appraisal estimate of US$9.3 million,
an amount in excess of US$20 million was eventually mobilized for the electricity industry under a
Bank-coordinated TA program, largely on the implementation of the power pool and the associated
settlement system (assistance was also provided for the introduction of International Accounting Standards
and the preparation of future projects). A 1999 USAID-sponsored detailed review of the TA program
concluded that the assistance was of poor technical quality and did not sufficiently address the specific
requirements of Ukraine (see "Power Sector Reform Program Evaluation" prepared by The Mitchell
Group, July 1999). Furthermore, insufficient efforts had been made to transfer the knowledge deemed
essential for the successful operations of power markets. USAID is now trying to redirect its assistance to
the privatization of utilities, while the UK Know How Fund has left the sector, in part because of its
disappointment with the results including the poor utilization by the Government of Ukraine of the sector
privatization strategy developed under British government funding.



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated.
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
The institutional impact of the Project can be assessed as follows:
*   The Ministry of Power (Minenergo) is still in control of the sector, given the prevailing shortages
and the resulting need to allocate resources;
* The sector Regulatory Agency (NERC) has established itself, has acquired considerable expertise,
but had some of its powers removed by the Parliament and the Govermment (in relation to tariffs
for households). It also practices capping of wholesale tariffs, resulting in losses to the power
industry and weak competition among the generators; and
*   The thermal generation companies are suffering from their declining market share, precarious
financial condition, excess capacity and under-maintained facilities. They were the focus of the
Project, but visible institutional improvements in the operating environment did not materialize.
In a Policy Letter under the Project, the Government undertook to carry out a privatization program of the
generation and distribution companies over the medium- and long-term. Small lots of shares were sold to
the workers and on the stock exchange and seven (out of 27) distribution utilities were privatized mostly to
speculative financial investors. Contrary to the Bank and other donors' advice, and contrary to a detailed
strategic study done by a reputable Investment Bank under the Bank's supervision, the privatization
benefited financial investors without any record in the intemational power distribution business. Some are
not complying with the conditions of the Energomarket, so the revocation of their licenses is under
consideration. On the whole, institutional progress has been modest, particularly, given the scope of TA
that was provided.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Efforts to revive the Project were adversely affected by the severe knock-on effects of the Russian financial
crisis of August 1998, which resulted in a large devaluation of the Ukrainian currency, thus creating an
immediate requirement for a significant tariff adjustment (at the time, bulk wholesale tariffs, as well as
retail tariffs were expressed in US$). Subsequently, the Parliament intervened and effectively withdrew
from NERC the powers to adjust household tariffs and the cancellation of the Loan became inevitable in
September 1999. (Subsequently, the Constitutional Court overturned Parliament's ban on tariff increases,
but NERC's authority to set tariffs continues to be constrained by political considerations.)
-6-



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Much of the financial measures which were at the core of the Project were under the control of the
Government, in particular:
*   Causing budget organizations to pay their electricity bills in cash;
*   Authorizing unambiguously the distribution utilities to disconnect delinquent customers;
*   Implementing the electricity sector Financial Recovery Plan, thus enabling the power utilities to
recover past losses and accumulate working capital;
*   Implementing a credible social safety net enabling the lower income groups to meet their electricity
bills;
*   Not requiring the utilities to carry the burden of supporting privileged groups; and
*   Privatizing the distribution utilities in a transparent fashion, in accordance with international
practice, to strategic investors with know-how, capital and expertise in modem power utility
management.
Had the above been achieved, the Government would not have had to resort to administrative tariff control,
fuel allocation and ad hoc interventions in the distribution of Energomarket cash proceeds.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
These factors were not decisive for the final Project outcome (suspension/cancellation). The key driving
factors were under the Government's control.
5.4 Costs and financing:
n.a. (no significant cost changes occurred under the Project).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Attaining the objectives of the Project on a sustainable basis would have requireed resolution of a large
number of significant issues including first and foremost the lack of liquidity in the economy. Resolving
this issue is essential to permit the financial rehabilitation of the utilities and the application of appropriate
tariffs. As long as their cash collections remain at current levels (5-10%), generation companies will not
have sufficient funds to procure quality coal at attractive prices and submit competitive bids. Hence, the
main objective would not be attained on a sustainable basis. As a result, taking also into account that less
than 25% of the Loan was disbursed, the sustainability of the Project is rated as Unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
n.a.
-7 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Project was innovative and ambitious, supporting the rapid introduction of a competitive power
market. Such an approach was consistent with the CAS and Bank sector policies. Virtually all potential
issues were addressed during Project preparation including the financial rehabilitation of the sector; the
introduction of competitive markets; the articulation of cost reflecting tariff policies; and the immediate
capital and operating requirements of the utilities. The Project concept was sound and well-conceived and
involved the key players (generation companies and NDC) to prepare themselves for the new competitive
market environment. The Bank Loan became a "flagship" sector operation in Ukraine, rallying major
international donors into a large and comprehensive program to support broad-based reforms. The
appraisal team was well-staffed and competent. It alerted management to the high risks the Project entailed
(which were addressed through a large number of covenants, enabling the Bank to suspend the Loan
rapidly). The Regional Operations Committee referred the matter to the Bank-wide Operations Committee,
which declined to meet on the subject. Both peer reviewers voiced serious reservations about the
sustanibility of the financial situation of the generators once the working capital loan has been disbursed. It
seems that these sustanability concems were not addressed properly.
The Project design contained a number of major weaknesses including: (i) excessive focus on a competitive
thermal generation market, as opposed to revenue collection (the latter issue would normally be addressed
through the privatization of distribution companies); (ii) excessive reliance on legal covenants (although in
Ukraine laws and decrees are routinely ignored, usually without serious consequence); (iii) reliance on an
untested cash allocation mechanism (which provided for the distributors to deposit all their cash proceeds in
a centralized "transit account"); and (iv) insufficient attention to the macroeconomic environment in general
and the consumers' ability to pay the full tariff in cash in particular.
Overall, the performance of the Bank during appraisal was Unsatisfactory. The prospect of a competitive
generation market in Ukraine proved too attractive to turn down, notwithstanding the fact that the Project
did not address directly the main issues (most notably, the privatization) of the sector, and did not take
sufficiently into account the unfavorable underlying macroeconomic environment.
7.2 Supervision:
The Loan became effective on January 31, 1997. A supervision mission visited Ukraine in April 1997 and
reported that a whole series of agreed steps were not being implemented consistently with earlier
undertakings, particularly, with respect to tariffs and revenue collection. In addition, the Govemment was
intervening in the functioning of the Energomarket. Under the circumstances, the Bank had no choice but
to threaten suspension (May 1997). A follow-up mission visited Ukraine in June/July 1997 and reported
excellent progress in the preparation of remedial measures, including a much overdue residential tariff
adjustment. Eventually, the Government backed off on the agreed tariff adjustments, thus forcing the Bank
to suspend at end-July 1997.
Four supervision missions visited Ukraine subsequently, which were largely dedicated to the preparation
and monitoring of a Financial Recovery Plan (FRP), designed with susbstainal assistance from the Bank
and the donors to enable resuming Project implementation. Hopes were running high much of 1998 that the
Loan could be reinstated following Cabinet of Ministers approval of a comprehensive FRP in April 1998.
The FRP received the support of the G-7 at the highest level. Under the FRP, a high level inter-agency
- 8 -



Financial Recovery Commission was appointed, tariffs were significantly adjusted in line with the relevant
Loan covenants, bid caps were removed and considerable progress was made toward market-based retail
tariffs (except residential tariffs), arrears were partially rescheduled, and payment collections improved.
However, the Russian financial crisis (para. 5.1) then intervened, resulting in drastic depreciation of the
Hryvnia and a politically unsustainable tariff increase. Residential tariffs became highly politicized under a
Parliament-initiated law (dated September 23, 1998) that imposed a ban on raising tariffs for public
utilities and disconnecting non-paying households until budget arrears in salaries and pensions were paid in
full. Payment collections (both total and cash) deteriorated markedly and the Energomarket's
formula-based payment allocation mechanism was suspended by NERC from time to time due to
"emergency" circumstances. With the possibility of Loan reinstatement fading away progressively, the
Loan was eventually cancelled on September 23, 1999 at the request of the Government.
The Bank had no choice but to suspend the Loan in July 1997, given that the fundamental conditions for
the introduction of a competitive market were not being met. Under such conditions, for the Bank to
finance additional fuel supplies (to meet the requirements of the 1997/98 winter) would have made little
sense. The efforts of the Bank in the subsequent two years to restore the Project, under the original
framework, were remarkable, as they mobilized the authorities and the affected parties, together with all the
donors, in elaborating a sector-wide FRP. Overall, the supervision effort was Satisfactory under the
difficult circumstances created by a particularly challenging Project in a difficult country environment.
7.3 Overall Bank peoformance:
The Bank tried to seize a window of (political) opportunity to introduce a modem power market in a
transition economy. While the Project was fully consistent with the CAS and sectoral priorities, it did not
take sufficiently into account the overall macroeconomic environment, the status of the legal framework, as
well as the level of real political commitment behind the program. With hindsight, the political and social
ramifications of the power sector reform program could have been better anticipated. The overall
performance of the Bank, under the circumstances, is rated Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The authorities--most notably, Minenergo and NERC--participated actively in Project preparation, as they
were committed at the time to the Project objectives, with all that this entails in terms of putting together a
competitive power market, as well as a performing financial settlement system. These actions were taken
well in advance of Loan negotiations. Subsequently, the authorities adjusted power tariffs and made efforts
(mostly administrative in nature) to improve collections. In all, the Borrower's perforrnance during Project
preparation was Satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation pe.'for-mance:
Attainment of the Project's goals was adversely affected by the Government and the sector regulator taking
flagrant measures in contradiction with the agreed Loan covenants including: (i) disallowing tariff
adjustments; (ii) capping wholesale tariffs; (iii) through the use of emergency powers, influencing the
allocation of cash between different members of the Energomarket; and (iv) rationing coal. The Bank
alerted the authorities to the need to take remedial measures, but unquestionably, the political will was
missing. The Government's performance in the privatization of the distribution companies was also
questionable as, against the donors' advice, it decided to opt for financial as opposed to strategic investors
for the first seven distribution companies that were privatized during 1998. Finally, there was poor
-9-



coordination between various GOU agencies in the implementation of the FRP. The Government's overall
implementation performance is thus rated as Unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The four generation companies were keen to see the Project succeed as it was perceived as essential to
achieve their institutional, technical and financial rehabilitation. As explained above, these objectives were
not attained. Still, an area where the generation companies should have been expected to play a key role
would have been the procurement of fuels, as it was expected specifically that they would be in charge of
this activity (SAR, para. 4.9), and would be assisted by external consultants (para. 2.15). In the event,
Minenergo played a "coordinating role", which caused, inter alia, bidding documents being floated on a
joint basis and the same price for fuel oil being charged to all four companies (the same four trading firms,
which obtained US$76 million worth of contracts, supplied the four generation companies with fuel oil and
coal). This was inconsistent with the objective of the Project, which was to create a competitive framework
between the generators, and did not contribute to their developing fuel procurement expertise either.
Further, during the two-year suspension period, generation companies and the National Dispatch Center did
not push strongly enough with the Government for an early cancellation of the Loan to avoid paying
commitment charges on the outsanding Loan balance. Overall, the implementation performance of the
generation companies was Unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
While the Govenmment was supportive of the Project during preparation, its performance during
implementation was particularly weak, given that it frustrated, through its continuous ad hoc interference,
the operation of a competitive power market. Government and Parliamentary actions made residential
tariff setting highly politicized. The Government's reluctance to give up its day-to-day management of the
electricity industry, including fuel procurement, results in an overall Unsatisfactory performance rating.
8. Lessons Learned
Power Sector Reform and Macroeconomic Environment
A key lesson from the Project is that there is little merit in pursuing comprehensive power sector reform
policies (legislation, unbundling, competition, privatization, regulation, etc.) in a country in the throes of a
major economic crisis. The Project amply demonstrates that when the economy is fundamentally
barter-based, salaries/pensions are in arrears and the Govemement condones the culture of non-payment,
there is no way to cause consumers to pay for electricity in cash. In such an environment, the introduction
of an advanced model of a competitive power market is bound to be a losing proposition. Project
objectives should have been more modest and targeted to improving well-delineated technical, institutional
and financial problems.
Financing of Working Capital
Under normal circumstances, capital assets are financed through long-term loans (together with some
equity) and working capital is financed through short-term borrowings, supplier's advances and equity.
Hence, the financing of fuels through longer term borrowings was highly unusual; it enabled the generators
to meet their requirements for a few weeks or months, but saddled them with long-term financial
obligations they are presently unable to meet, let alone in cash. The Bank should apply strict policies on
the financing of working capital, essentially confining such financing to genuineforce majeure
circumstances.
- 10-



Ability to Pay
It does not seem that serious attempts were ever made to assess the ability of major categories of consumers
(residential, industrial and budget organizations) to pay the full cost of electricity in cash in a consistent
fashion. Granted that some categories of consumers were expected to be supported by local and central
government, the sustainability of such arrangements should have been assessed realistically.
Targeting of Project
The Project intended to benefit largely the generation companies through the provision of working capital
(fuel and spare parts). Yet, to be successful, the Project ultimately depended on the ability of 27
distribution companies in collecting revenue and compensating the generators correspondingly. The
distributors were encouraged to improve collections primarily through legal means, but had no real
incentive to perform in this respect. Had the Project been addressing distribution as well, the Bank could
have had more influence over this critical segment of the sector.
Period of Suspension
The Loan was suspended for an unusually long period (26 months). The Bank's compliance deadlines for
the reinstatement conditions were moved several times. This was in large part due to the broader
intemational significance of the Project. Nevertheless, the Bank should have taken a tougher stance on this
matter, including unilateral cancellation, when the Financial Recovery Plan started to unravel at the end of
1998 and hopes for restoring the Loan were fading rapidly.
Role of Peer Reviewers
Both peer reviewers expressed strong reservations about the Project, particularly with respect to the
generation companies borrowing long term to finance fuel purchases, the advisability of creating a
competitive market at this juncture, the role of a regulator in an environment in which enterprises are in the
public sector, and the insufficient emphasis on privatization. Peer reviewers' opinions, particularly when
critical of an operation, should be given more weight in the Project approval process.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments of Minenergo
Evaluation of Project Objectives and Implementation Results
The necessity of preparation of the Project was dictated in an extremely difficult situation in the branch of
electric energy of Ukraine. Implementation of market relations in this branch of economy began on the
background of the acute financial and payment crisis in the economy of Ukraine which resulted in rapid
lowering of the level of payments (especially in terms of bank-effected payments) for consumed electric and
heat energy. This entailed recession in production, further washing-out of working funds, lack of funds for
modernization and updating of energy capacities as well as for wages and salaries of the branch employees.
- 11 -



In order to stabilize the financial status of energy companies and organize the operation of the wholesale
electricity market of Ukraine, a decision was made to obtain financial resources of the World Bank.
The Loan Agreement was signed between Ukraine and the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and
Development on November 1, 1996 and ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 18,
1996.
The total loan amount for the Project was US$375 million, including US$50.5 million as a share of
Ukraine, US$7.5 million as technical (grant) assistance and US$317 million as the World Bank loan
consisting of the following three parts:
part ] - US$123.1 million for purchasing fuel (590,000 tons of fuel oil and 2.6 million tons of
coal) by energy generating companies;
part 2 - US$122.3 million for acquisition of spare parts for equipment of 14 thermal power
stations; and
part 3 - US$71.6 million for installation of measuring instruments and communication devices for
improvement of operation of the wholesale electricity market.
Implementation of part 1 and part 2 of the Project had to be carried out by joint-stock power generation
companies, Dniproenergo, Donbassenergo, Zakhidenergo and Tsentrenergo for the period of three years.
The NDC of Ukraine (National Dispatch Center), currently called the NEC Ukrenergo (National Electricity
Company), was in charge of implementation of the part 3 of the Project.
As specified in the Agreement, the closing date for withdrawal of funds from the loan account was
December 31, 1999. In accordance with the Sub-Credit Agreements signed between the Ministry of
Finance of Ukraine, the thermal power generation companies and the NDC, repayment of credit funds
according to part 1 and part 2 is to be commenced by the thermal power generation companies in May
2000, and repayment of credit funds under part 3 of the Project by the NEC Ukrenergo must be
commenced in May 2002.
Implementation teams were formed within organizations-performers of the energy generation companies
under the Project for the purpose of its realization. In addition, a working group was organized within the
structure of the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine for coordination of activities in preparation and
implementation of the Project. Also, the Project Steering Committee was approved in accordance with a
special edict of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
Purchase of fuel was conducted by means of intemational tender. All necessary documents for its holding
were prepared in a very short time. This became possible due to fruitful collaboration of experts of the
generating companies and the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine with USAID and the consultants of the
Hagler-Bailly company.
In connection with the facts that the World Bank made the loan effective only on January 31, 1997 and the
prolonged review of the tender documents by World Bank experts, the power stations started to receive the
fuel purchased through the loan funds at the end of winter/beginning of spring of 1997. The table below
shows the breakdown of the fuel purchases:
- 12-



Coal                       Fuel Oil
thousand tons US$ (million)  thousand tons  US$ (million)
Dniproenergo             495.0       17,668.3          45.0    4,725.0
Donbassenergo            439.0       17,913.5          28.5     2,992.5
Zakhidenergo             441.0       11,311.6           -         0.0
Tsentrenergo             489.0       18,609.7          26.1     2,743.5
Total                 1,800.0       65,503.1          99.6    10,461.0
Another tender intended to purchase fuel had to be held at the end of 1997. However, starting from July
28, 1997, funding of the Project was suspended due to both unsatisfactory financial standing of the entire
power sector and prohibited increase of electricity tariffs for household consumers.
In order to stabilize the financial situation of the energy companies and regulate financial settlements in the
power sector, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a series of regulations (of which the World Bank was
constantly kept informed by Minenergo).
It was expected that implementation of measures, which had been planned by the regulations, would allow
to overcome the existing difficulties at the earliest possible time. Unfortunately, the expectations did not
materialize. In particular, indicators of payment collection of the four generating companies remained at
rather low levels, as shown below:
Generation Companies
General level of payments      Including cash
1997                       76.20%                     7.70%
1998                       68.60%                     5.29%
1999 (10 months)           59.20%                     7.70%
On July 23, 1998, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the law of Ukraine "On Temporary Prohibition
of Increasing Prices and Tariffs for Housing and Communal Services and Services of Municipal Transport
Rendered to the Citizens of Ukraine." This law provides temporary prohibition of increasing prices and
tariffs for housing and communal services at any time prior to full repayment of arrears of wages and
salaries, stipends, pensions as well as social allowance debts.
On request from the President of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine adopted the decision on
March 2, 1999 as to non-constitutional nature of adopting the above law. The National Electricity
Regulatory Commission (NERC) adopted a regulation on increase of tariffs for electric energy for
household consumers starting in April 1999.
In order to provide social protection of the citizens, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed on March 17,
1999 the Law of Ukraine "On Introduction of Changes to the Law of Ukraine on Tariffs and Pricing." In
accordance with this law;
*   prices and tariffs for housing and cormmunal services (including electric energy and natural gas for
housing and conununal needs), services of municipal transport and communication services shall
be established by the Cabinet of Ministers in agreement with the Supreme Council of lUkraine; and
- 13 -



*   payments for housing and communal services as well as services of municipal transport shall be
carried out the basis of prices and tariffs set by the NERC as of June 1, 1998.
Passing these laws was a serious impediment to renewal of the loan due to infringement of a condition of
the World Bank as to the exclusive right of the NERC to perform regulation of the electricity tariffs.
In response to repeated requests of Minenergo and the generating companies for renewal of funding and
then for cancellation of unused funds of the loan or redirection of the loan funds in full for the purposes of
purchase and installation of measuring instruments and communication devices (in order to improve the
operation of the power market), the World Bank did not give its consent and canceled the balance of unused
funds as late as on September 23, 1999.
Work Efficiency of Project Agencies
Unfortunately, implementation of the Project led to negative effects. Losses incurred by the NEC
Ukrenergo because of comritment fees due to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine during 1997-1999
amounted to US$0.446 million.
Especially tangible were the negative effects for the generating companies. First, fuel was purchased at the
expense of the World Bank funds (i.e., settlements with suppliers were fully performed in cash). However,
for the electricity generated, the companies received cash only in the amount of seven to eight percent of its
total value. Second, the suspension of the loan negatively affected conditions under which the companies
and the branch were to meet maximum load requirements during the fall and winter periods of 1997/98
and 1998/99, the volume of fuel provided under the Project being introduced into the balance settlements of
1997 and then of 1998. In this connection, the generating companies faced significant difficulties while
having carried out maximum load during the fall and winter periods on their own. Third, according to the
conditions formulated by the World Bank, commitment fees were charged even during the suspension of the
loan. Finally, the loan was suspended because of reasons beyond the control of the generating companies.
However, within two and a half years the companies were facing serious problems associated with the
interest balance due to the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the appropriate covenants provided by
the Agreement.
Debt of the generating companies to the Ministry of Finance (US$4.5 million equivalent as of end- 1999),
was repaid by means of offsets with state budget organizations.
Currently, the overdue repayment of debts relating to interest balance due to the Ministry of Finance by the
generating companies amounts to about US$6.5 million. Meanwhile, the local tax administration offices
continuously charge penalties for debts to the state budget and total indebtedness of the generating
companies has been increasing.
The above factors created a situation in which the generating companies, after having failed to renew
funding under the Project, appealed to the World Bank, the Ministry of Finance and Minenergo with
requests for cancellation of the unused portion of the loan.
Efficiency of the World Bank
The drawbacks of generally fruitful cooperation with experts of the World Banks are as follows:
*   long period of time needed by the World Bank experts to clear the tender documents;
- 14 -



*   lack of provision for effective assistance in concluding agreements with donor countries under the
Loan Agreement on providing technical (grant) assistance;
*   disregarding by the World Bank appeals of the generating companies as to refusal from further
implementation of the Project and cancellation of unused portion of the loan (independently of the
Project Implementation Agreement concluded with them); and
*   refusal to reallocate the loan funds for the purpose of increasing the volume for purchase of
measuring instruments and communication devices (and corresponding reduction of funds for
replenishment of the working capital), which, in our opinion, would have facilitated improvements
in the operation of the wholesale electricity market of Ukraine.
Lessons and Experience
It was expected that implementation of the Project will improve the financial situation of the generating
companies and allow them in the future to secure their working capital from their own incomes.
The fuel acquired from the loan funds was used for production of electricity but the generating companies
failed to return funds from the wholesale market and the electricity consumers. Receipt of credit for
purchasing fuel under conditions of the non-payment crisis led to even greater deficit of working capital in
the generation companies.
We positively evaluate the experience gained by the generating companies during preparation and conduct
of the international tender for the purchase of fuel and the related conduct of procurement workshops.
We consider inappropriate to obtain long-term credits for the replenishment of working capital. These
funds should have been spent in the first place on development, reconstruction and upgrade of existing
faiclities, the construction of new highly efficient capacities and the introduction of modem technologies.
Comments of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission
Evaluation of Project Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Commission believes that the objectives which were set to be achieved during the implementation of
the Electricity Market Development Project relating to reduction of cost of electric energy for consumers
and provision of standard indicators of its quality were totally consistent with the economic interests of the
state. Achievement of these goals may support the product competitiveness of Ukrainian enterprises and
create a pre-condition for the economic revival of Ukraine.
The Commission's understanding is that one of the basic components of the Project, i.e., establishing a
Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM), was implemented within a short period of time consodering the
significant transformations that have taken place in this branch of the economy. This process was carried
out in a rather reasonable, civilized and elaborated manner with simultaneous passing of appropriate
normative legislative documents. Implementation of the WEM was done in the environment of the
economic recession and financial crisis.
In the opinion of the Commission, the experience obtained in the course of functioning of the WEM
- 15 -



(1997-1999) shows that implementation of this Project in ftill amount, given availability of payments by
suppliers for acquired electric energy on the WEM, could undoubtedly ensure improvements of the branch,
including an assurance for the further conduct of market refonns in the economy and the lack of funding
risk for investors.
It should be noted that the financial crisis within the state and the non-payment by consumers rather than
economic disadvantages of the WEM model implemented in Ukraine, have given rise to some negative
judgements about the operation of the electricity market.
Competitiveness of the Market
The WEM has features of the competitive market, however, with some peculiarities typical for a transition
economy. On one hand, the Agreement among the WEM members created all conditions for competition
but the practice demonstrated that realities of the Ukrainian economy inevitably impact on the development
of competition through administrative interference in the electricity sector. An equal and fair competition
among the generating companies was not implemented in full due to unsatisfactory collection of payments
for electric energy and, consequently, the lack of fuel stocks for the power stations. The considerable
number (about 120) of independent suppliers offering their products at unregulated tariffs on the WEM
enhanced the competitive environment in the market.
World Bank's Condition to Set Average Residential tariffs at least 20% above Average Industrial Tariffs
This requirement was absolutely fair as the actual costs of transportation of electric energy and its supply
to population are siginicantly higher than the costs for industrial consumers. At the same time, it is deemed
inappropriate to determine some specific indicators of average tariff overcharge (in this case, 20 %) as the
credibility of such assessment is very doubtful.
In order to meet the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement relating to increase of prices for electric
energy supplied to the rural population and consumers, NERC consequently adjusted tariffs for the electric
energy supplied to the population. This was done for fuller compensation by consumers of actual cost of
electric energy (three changes in tariffs took place during two years) and currently the average tariff applied
to population exceeds the average tariff effective for industrial consumers by 10.5 %.
However, in order to meet the Law of Ukraine "On Temporary Prohibition of Increasing Prices and Tariffs
for Housing and Communal Services and Services of Municipal Transport Rendered to the Citizens of
Ukraine" adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, NERC had to suspended the implementation of its
own resolutions aimed at coplying with the above Loan covenant. In other words, the Borrower failed to
meet the conditions of the Loan Agreement due to interference with NERC's exclusive jurisdiction in
regulation of retail and wholesale tariffs for electric energy.
Furthermore, the cost of subsidy certificates, which cover losses of the energy supplying companies, shall
be accounted for in the wholesale market price if the companies supply the electric energy to privileged
consumers, provided that those privileges do not have any sources of coverage according to the laws as
well as coverage of losses of the energy supplying companies while supplying electric energy to agricultural
consumers.
NERC within its own competence, has actually fulfilled all conditions of the Loan Agreement.
- 16 -



World Bank's Condition to Apply a Bid Cap no less than US$40. 00 per MWh
In conditions of lack of competition among the generating companies due to deficit of operating fuel
reserves, for the purpose of prevention of increase in retail tariffs, in certain situations, NERC enforces
limitation on the maximum system marginal price.
NERC believes that on condition of conclusion of a new loan agreement, there is little sense to consider
issues of establishing a specific value for the system marginal price as a condition of the loan. While
securing competition among the generating companies, NERC will not fix any upper system marginal price
whatsoever.
Additional Information by JSC Tsentrenergo at World Bank's Request
Explanation on Insurance Policy
A reserve fund of the company was formed on September 1, 1998 in accordance with the charter of the
company. However, due to deficit of banking funds in payment for electric energy supplied by the
company, all funds received on the current account of the company are directed to wage payments and
other urgent needs of the enterprise. Therefore, no funds are currently allocated to the reserve fund.
Explanation on New Long- Term Borrowings
In accordance with the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted on November 4. 1997,
No. 1212, the Government of Ukraine provided guarantees for the conclusion of an Agreement between
Tsentrenergo and the consortium Zamischennia CHAES for the reconstruction of the Zmiivsk power
station in the amount of DM138 million.
Within the framework of this Agreement, credit in the amount of DM126.61 million was extended. The
Credit Agreement of April 3, 1998, No. 02/64-163, was concluded in the amount of DM63.3 million
(creditor: banking consortium AKA, FRG) and the Credit Agreement No. 11/15-162 in the amount of
DM63.3 million (creditor: Kreditanstalt fur Wiederautbau). For implementation of the above Agreements,
an Agreement between the Tsentrenergo and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine was concluded
as of June 19, 1998, No. 221. A Guarantee Agreement was concuded between the Ministry of Energy of
Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine as of May 22, 1998, No. 206. Finally, an
Agreement "On Determination of Sources and Establishment of Mechanism of Repayment of Credit
Extended by FRG Received under the Guarantee of the CMU for Funding the Project of Reconstruction of
the Energy Unit 8 of Zmiivska TES" was concluded on March 17, 1998, No. 98, between Tsentrenergo,
the National Dispatch Center and the Energomarket State Enterprise. As of January 1, 2000, DM19.1
million was disbursed under this credit.
Borisov
January 25, 2000
- 17 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments were received.
10. Additional Information
No additional information is provided.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
This is not applicable as the project was suspended.
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost bv Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million     US$ million
A. Fuels                                              135.74           83.36            64
B. Spare Parts, Equipment and Urgent Maintenance      128.74            0.00             0
C. Metering and Communications                        68.82             0.00             0
D. Teclnical Service                                   8.50             4.82            56
Total Baseline Cost                                  341.80            88.18
Physical Contingencies                                6.40             0.00             0
Price Contingencies                                  22.40             0.00             0
Total Project Costs              370.60           88.18
Interest during construction     7.00            0.45           6.00
Total Financing Required              377.60            88.63
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.   I   Procuremnent Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         24.90         24.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                    281.60        0.00         27.60        28.00        337.20
(281.60)      (0.00)       (27.60)      (0.00)       (309.20)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         2.00          6.50         8.50
.______________ _  (0.00)  (0.00)      (2.00)       (0.00)        (2.00)
4. Interest During           0.00          0.00         5.80         1.20         7.00
Construction
(0.00)       (0.00)       (5.80)       (0.00)        (5.80)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                    281.60         0.00        35.40         60.60        377.60
(281.60)      (0.00)       (35.40)      (0.00)       (317.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                         19.66           0.00          56.30           0.00           75.96
(19.66)         (0.00)        (56.30)         (0.00)        (75.96)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Interest During               0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Construction
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         19.66           0.00          56.30           0.00           75.96
(19.66)         (0.00)        (56.30)        (0.00)          (75.96)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2! Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estinmate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
A. Fuels                 123.10     18.49      0.00      75.96      10.40      0.00    61.7   56.2   0.0
B. Spare Parts,          122.30     21.94      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Equipment and Urgent
Maintenance
C. Metering and          69.60       6.64      0.00      0.45       0.00       0.00     0.6    0.0    0.0
communications
D. Technical Service      2.00       1.00      5.50      0.00       0.00      4.82      0.0    0.0    87.6
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not calculated.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                          Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation          10    I Mission Leader,
01/96 - 02/96                       4 Financial Analysts, I Energy
Economist, I Mining Engineer,
2 Power Engineers, I
Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
No appraisal mission as
the pre-appraisal
mission was upgraded.
Negotiations:
08/96                           7    1 Mission Leader, I Energy
Economist, I Financial Analyst,
I Lawyer, I Disbursement
Officer, I Procurement
Specialist, I Power Engineer
Supervision
01/97                           2   1 Mission Leader, I                    S                  S
Operations Officer
04/97                           4   1 Mission Leader, I Sr.               HU                 U
Financial Analyst, I Oper.
Officer, 1 Financial Analyst
06/97 - 07/97                   3   1 Mission Leader, I Energy            U                  HU
Economist, I Operations Officer,
I Financial Analyst
10/97                           2   1 Mission Leader, 1 Operations        U                 HU
Officer
02/98                           2   1 Mission Leader, I Operations        HU                 HU
Officer
05/98                           2   1 Mission Leader, I Operations        U                  U
Officer
09/98 - 10/98                   3   1 Team Leader, I Energy               U                  U
Specialist, I Operations Officer
11/98                           2   1 Team Leader, I Operations           U                  U
Officer
03/99                           2   1 Team Leader, I Operations           U                  U
Officer
ICR
12/99 - 04/00                  2    1 Team Leader, I Energy.
Specialist
- 23 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
_  No. Staff weeks            US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation               49.5                        150.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    22.0                         66.3
Supervision                              83.0                        244.9
ICR                                       10.0                        60.0
Total                                   164.5                        521.7
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Z Financial                               C H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
N Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Gender                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management                C H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
* Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
* Supervision                                       OHS * S  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
* Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
* Government implementation performance             O HS O S  * U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Energomarket Members Agreement, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand, 1996.
Standard License For The Right to Carry Out Entrepreneurial Activity in Transmission of
Electricity by Local Electricity Networks, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand, 1996.
Standard License for the Right to Carry Out Entrepreneurial Activity in Electricity Supply at
Non-Regulated Tariff, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand, 1996.
Standard License for the Right to Carry Out Entrepreneurial Activities in Electricity
Transmission by Main Inter-State Networks, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand, 1996.
Standard License for the Right to Carry Out Entrepreneurial Activity in Generation of
Electricity, prepared by Coopers & Lybrand, 1996.
Restoration of NDC Solvency, prepared by Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett Ltd., 1996.
Report on Minenergo Management of State Share. Recommended Procedure for ESE
Computer System Coordination, prepared by Electrowatt Engineering Ltd. and Putnam, Hayes
& Bartlett Ltd., 1997.
NDC Promissory Note Program, prepared by Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett Ltd., 1997.
Technical Assistance for Reorganization and Market Transformation in the Power Industry,
prepared by Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett Ltd., 1997.
Survey of Foreign Energy Ministries, prepared by Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett Ltd., 1997.
UJkraine: Electricity Financial Problems Analysis, prepared by Electrowatt Engineering Ltd.
and Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett Ltd., 1997.
Recommended Privatization Strategy for the Ukrainian Electricity Industry - Final Report,
prepared by Schroders and Baker & McKenzie, 1997.
Assistance to Ukraine Energo Market Funds Administrator - Evaluation Report, prepared by
Lalmeyer International for TACIS, August 1997.
Energomarket: Buy/Sell or Consignment, prepared by Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett Ltd., 1998.
Financial Recovery Plan for the Power Sector of Ukraine, approved by Resolution of the
Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine #508 of April 18, 1998.
Ukraine Electricity Market Reforms, reports prepared by Technical Assistance Coordinating
Consultant, 1998.
Information Systems Electricity Market Development Project Ukraine - System Needs Report,
- 27 -



prepared by Pacific Consultants International, 1998.
Information Systems Electricity Market Development Project Ukraine - Action Plan Report,
prepared by Pacific Consultants International, 1999.
Information Systems Electricity Market Development Project Ukraine - Final Design Report.
Management Information Systems (MIS), prepared by Pacific Consultants International,
1999.
Non-Payments and Barter Problems in Ukraine's Power Sector, prepared by the International
Center for Policy Studies and the World Bank, April 1999.
Power Sector Reform Program Evaluation - Final Report, prepared by The Mitchell Group,
Inc. for USAID, July 1999.
- 28 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27976
J'1'  31,                                                                    The. "bouri cors,
B E L A  R U  S                                                                                                         h    -i .,, y
The World Bank Group,
any u.dq-set athe 1epol
or any en drsemet
|  1  - o'  C JX            \                      3                                                         bo nsseaprzrunse Ossuch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o euptou o sc
P O L A N D              t-o' 2                       >>5                       \   { \                        t         t               RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
1'    Dobrotvi          Rne                    Chornosbyl *
ns                                                      nLGO'ONBASSENERGO
SLOVAK                                                                         n                                          rmnu
REPUBLIC  r                                                             n          > K IE VE N ER                                                                              Luechk, _       ,|<
a-                                                                                                     Oniprodze~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nirv  rzi niprin  Lls 
HUNGARY NEn
a  K R A g N E                                         \ Lynhyan                       D N I PR            RGO G 0                                         Ul-   n
PROJECT       }   \  h,                     /             Xlivka                X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <   <~~Zi
i R;                 ~~~~~~~~Zaporizi
TRAN MASINIAE 25                                                                                                                           St {       '< /So  r e
1                      ~~~~~~~MOLDOVA                          South UkraineStrbee     
~A Zapssrizlsk    Zap,orizhzhia 
U K R A I N                                                 ODES  AEN  RGQSut
ELECTRICITY MARKET DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                      Donbass 
_    5k                                                                                                                                                              FEDERATION~
HPROJEUCTRIC POWER PLANTS
* TI-IMA [POWER PLANTS @/f/:.   
I     NUCIEARPOWERSPLANTS AND
REGIONAL LECTRIC ASSOCIATIONS BOUNDARIES N 
(      7 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                          .RLOMETTRS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                            0      50   100    15
HYDRELECRIV ERS                                                                   BLACK $5EA N T S
.EAO    BOULGARIIS                                     t : :-        30'  '"'..BLARA..                                    35        0          50   MILES 10150
SEPTEMBER 1996



