Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4098-0 UA
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4098-1 UA
                           NDC Project Agreement
                 (Electricity Market Development Project)
                                  between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
                         Dated November 1, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4098-0 UA
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4098-1 UA
                          NDC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
(NDC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Ukraine (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower (a) an amount equal to two hundred and forty-five
million and four hundred thousand Dollars ($245,400,000) for Portion
A of the Loan and (b) an amount equal to seventy-one million and six
hundred thousand Dollars ($71,600,000) for Portion B of the Loan;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NDC, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to NDC on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS NDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
Page  2
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the term "PIU" shall mean the Project Implementa-
tion Unit established within NDC pursuant to the Order of the Ministry
of Power and Electrification on August 3, 1996, and referred to in
Paragraph 1 of the Schedule to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) NDC declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts C and D of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and NDC shall otherwise agree, NDC
shall carry out Parts C and D of  the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) NDC shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the NDC Project Agreement and Parts C and D of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, NDC shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
               agreed for this purpose between the Bank and NDC a plan
               for the future operation of Parts C and D of the Project;
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with NDC on said plan; and
        (iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
               efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
               taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 2.04. NDC shall duly perform all its obligations under the
NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
NDC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the NDC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) NDC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the NDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.
     (b)  NDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts C and D
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by NDC of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the NDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of NDC
Page  3
     Section 3.01. NDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with the NDC Operational Plan and with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices under the super-
vision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. NDC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
     Section 3.03. NDC shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) NDC shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
     (b)  NDC shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
               related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
               sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
               to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NDC
shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenditures of NDC shows that the estimated net revenues of NDC
for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall
be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of NDC
in such year on all debt of NDC including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purpose of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NDC maturing
               by its terms more than one year after the date on which
               it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
               such debt or for the modification of its terms of
               payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations and net-operating income; and
Page  4
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                    provision for depreciation, other non-cash
                    operating charges and interest and other charges
                    on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related
                    to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                    (A) above.
          (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
               of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
               of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
               by NDC not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the
               incurrence of the debt in question, which both the Bank
               and NDC accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank
               has notified NDC of its acceptability, provided that no
               event has occurred since such notification which has, or
               may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a
               material adverse effect on the financial condition or
               future operating results of NDC.
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
               lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
               is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
               such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
               able to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. NDC shall take all action necessary to reduce:
     (a)  its accounts payable to an average of not more than 40 days
for its fiscal year (FY) 1996, 35 days for FY 1997, 30 days in each
fiscal year thereafter; and
     (b)  its accounts receivable to an average of not more than 40
days for FY 1996, 35 days for FY 1997, and 30 days in each fiscal year
thereafter.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of NDC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify NDC thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  5
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the
party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so
specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI),
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
     For NDC:
          Kominterna 25
          Kiev 252032
          Ukraine
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of NDC may be taken or executed by its Director or such other
person or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and NDC
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Johannes Linn
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
               NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER
               By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE
                         Implementation Program
1.   In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of Parts C and D
of the Project, NDC shall maintain, with staff and other resources and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a Project Implementation
Page  6
Unit to be responsible for the design and supervision of execution of
Parts C and D of the Project.  The said Unit shall be headed by a
suitably qualified staff member of NDC who will function as the Project
Manager for Parts C and D of the Project.
2.   NDC shall provide the Borrower with all information required on its
part, including all information relating to the carrying out of Parts C
and D of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, to
enable the Borrower to carry out its obligations pursuant to paragraph
10 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
3.   NDC shall, at all times, comply with the provisions of the EMA and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NDC shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the EMA or any provision thereof.
4.   NDC shall at all times comply with the provisions of the Collection
Agreements and shall take all necessary steps to ensure the compliance
of the Oblenergos with the said Collection Agreements and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, NDC shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Collection Agreements or any respective provisions thereof.
