Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4098-0 UA
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4098-1 UA
                       Zakhidenergo Project Agreement
                  (Electricity Market Development Project)
                                   between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
                                 ZAKHIDENERGO
                             Dated November 1, 1996
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4098-0 UA
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4098-1 UA
                         ZAKHIDENERGO PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ZAKHIDENERGO (Zakhidenergo).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Ukraine (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower (a) an amount equal to two hundred and forty-five
million and four hundred thousand Dollars ($245,400,000) for Portion A
of the Loan and (b) an amount equal to seventy-one million and six
hundred thousand Dollars ($71,600,000) for Portion B of the Loan;
     (B)  by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Zakhidenergo, a portion of the proceeds of the loan pro-
vided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to Zakhidenergo
on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS Zakhidenergo, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
Page  2
therein set forth and the term "PIU" shall mean the Project Implementa-
tion Unit established within Zakhidenergo pursuant to the Order of the
Ministry of Power and Electrification on August 3, 1996, and referred
to in Paragraph 1 of the Schedule to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Zakhidenergo declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A(3) and B(3) of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for Parts A(3) and B(3)
of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Zakhidenergo shall otherwise
agree, Zakhidenergo shall carry out Parts A(3) and B(3) of the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule
to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Zakhidenergo shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Zakhidenergo Project Agreement and Parts
A(3) and B(3) of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, Zakhidenergo shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
               after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
               agreed for this purpose between the Bank and
               Zakhidenergo a plan for the future operation of Parts
               A(3) and B(3) of the Project;
         (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
               views with Zakhidenergo on said plan; and
        (iii)  thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
               efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
               taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
     Section 2.04. Zakhidenergo shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Zakhidenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Zakhidenergo shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning
or waiving the Zakhidenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) Zakhidenergo shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A(3) and
B(3) the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Zakhidenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  Zakhidenergo shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts
A(3) and B(3) of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Zakhidenergo of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Zakhidenergo Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of Zakhidenergo
     Section 3.01. Zakhidenergo shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with the Zakhidenergo Operational Plan and with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. Zakhidenergo shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
     Section 3.03. Zakhidenergo shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) Zakhidenergo shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
     (b)  Zakhidenergo shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
               related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing principles
               consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
               able to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
               statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records, accounts and financial statements as well
               as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Zakhidenergo shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of Zakhidenergo shows that the estimated
net revenues of Zakhidenergo for each fiscal year during the term of
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt
service requirements of Zakhidenergo in such year on all debt of
Zakhidenergo including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purpose of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any indebtedness of Zakhidenergo
               maturing by its terms more than one year after the date
               on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
               contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
               such debt or for the modification of its terms of
               payment on the date of such contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has
               been entered into.
Page  4
        (iii)  The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
               (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                    operations and net-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations
                    including administration, adequate maintenance,
                    taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but
                    excluding provision for depreciation, other non-
                    cash operating charges and interest and other
                    charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
               between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources other than those related
                    to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                    taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in
                    (A) above.
          (v)  The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
               of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any)
               of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared
               by Zakhidenergo not earlier than twelve (12) months prior
               to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the
               Bank and Zakhidenergo accept as reasonable and as to
               which the Bank has notified Zakhidenergo of its
               acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since
               such notification which has, or may reasonably be
               expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect
               on the financial condition or future operating results
               of Zakhidenergo.
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
               necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
               Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
               valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing
               lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency
               is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
               purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
               such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange accept-
               able to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. Zakhidenergo shall take all necessary action to
reduce:
     (a)  its accounts payable to an average of not more than 40 days
for its fiscal year (FY) 1996, 35 days for FY 1997, 30 days in each
fiscal year thereafter; and
     (b)  its accounts receivable to an average of not more than 40
days for FY 1996, 35 days for FY 1997, and 30 days in each fiscal year
thereafter.
     Section 4.04. Zakhidenergo shall, from January 1, 1997, maintain
inventories of coal and mazut (including reserves for substitution of
gas, if necessary) at levels of 30 days, 20 days, 30 days and 40 days
of winter consumption for not less than 10 days in the first, second,
third and fourth quarters of each calendar year, respectively.  For
the purposes of this Section, winter consumption shall mean the
expected average daily consumption during the fourth quarter of each
calendar year.
                               ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
Page  5
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Zakhidenergo thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the
Bank shall promptly notify Zakhidenergo thereof.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                        Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:              Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              248423 (MCI),
               Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)
     For Zakhidenergo:
          Sventsitskogo 2
          Lviv 290011
          Ukraine
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of Zakhidenergo may be taken or executed by its Director or such
other person or persons as the Director shall designate in writing, and
Zakhidenergo shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Johannes Linn
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
Page  6
               ZAKHIDENERGO
               By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak
                                                Authorized Representative
                                  SCHEDULE
                           Implementation Program
1.   In order to facilitate the efficient carrying out of Parts A(3) and
B(3) of the Project, Zakhidenergo shall maintain, with staff and other
resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a Project
Implementation Unit to be responsible for the design and supervision of
execution of Parts A(3) and B(3) of the Project.  The said Unit shall
be headed by a suitably qualified staff member of Zakhidenergo who will
function as the Project Manager for Parts A(3) and B(3) of the Project.
2.   Zakhidenergo shall provide the Borrower with all information
required on its part, including all information relating to the carrying
out of Parts A(3) and B(3) of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, to enable the Borrower to carry out its obligations
pursuant to paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
3.   Zakhidenergo shall, at all times, comply with the provisions of
the EMA and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Zakhidenergo
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the EMA or any provision
thereof.
