DocUmoet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repott No. 5778
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 735-BD)
June 28, 1985
South Asia Regional Office
Tis *oc=t      a reStICted dkltlbuthm sNW my be wed by recjileats only In the perfimec ofI
tleirsfficia &du   ts tcelads M  neo othrwise be diloed without World Bak ahoriatiu.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GOB             -   Government of the PeopLe's Republic of Bangladesh
MOC             -   Ministry of Communication
PSI Division    -   Ports, Shipping and Tnland Water Transport Division
BIWTA           -   Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC           -   BangLadesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BTTG            -   Bangladesh Transport Task Group
BSC             -   Bangladesh Shipping Corporaton
PCA             -   Port of Chalna Authority
CPA             -   Chittagong Port Authority
ADP             -   Annual Development Program
TTB             -   Telephone and Telegraph Board
T lhis docuaent bas a rstictd diributon and may be used by rcipients only in the perforne of |
thek ofral duties. s contents may not ohrdwie   didosed without Wod Bank authoiatin



PROJECT CONMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 735-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................................            .....................  i
Basic Data oheet ........................... o......o..                     ii
Highlights ...... ..........................         ...    ..... o.        iv
I.   INTRODUCrION ..........................................................  I
II.   PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .... ......... o.......o........ .      2
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST ....................... ..        4
IV.   TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS ......     ........ ..........            21
V.   FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENTS ................................          24
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ....          ....     ......... v.     30
VII.   BANK PERFORMANCE .......................................         32
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS ... ........              ..................        33
ANNEXES
1.   Complianc2 with Covenants and Undertakings ..............        35
2.   Difficulties and Reasons Explaining Delays Experienced
Under Each Technical Assistance Study by Responsible
Ministry or Agencies.... ..........    .....    .........      39
3.   Actual and Expected Physical Completion ........ .........       44
4.   List of Major Projects Proposed by GOB for IDA
Assistance Under Its Future IWT Project ...............        45
5.   Actual and Future Requirements for Cargo Handling
Equipment ........... ............ ............. .....         49
6.   Modifications Made to the Consultants' Recommendations
for the Telecommunication Component ...................        51
7.   Appraisal and Actual Estimates of Project Costs .........        54
8.   Estimated and Actual Disburspments Schedule.............         55
9.   Details of BIWTC's Outstanding Loans as of 6/30/82
and 6/30/83 ........................................    .      56
10.   Actual Income Statements from 1976-77 to 1982-83 ........        57
11.   Appraisal Estimates of Profit and Loss Account for
FY10?7/78 to FY1980-81             ............                58



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page No.
12.   Actual Fund Flow Statements from 1976-77 to 1982-83 .....       59
13.   Actual Balance Sheets from 1976-77 to 1982-83............       60
14.   Actual Year-Wise Income and Expenditures from 1976-77
to 1982-83............................................        61
15.   Actual Balance Sheets from 1976-77 to 1982-83...........        62
16.   Statement of Debt Service Payable for the Years
1977-78 to 1982-83 ...........       .......      ......      63
17.   Borrower Co       o     m     m     e     n      ts...          64



PRojCECT COaLETiON REPORT
,BAN~AESE
SECOND ILAND WATER TRASPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 735-BD)
Pteface
This is a compLetion report for the Bangladesh Second Inland Water
Transport Project. The project was appraised in October 1976, and a Credit
(735-SD) in the amount of US$5 million was approved in December 1977. The
credit became effective in March 1978, and was closed on August 15, 1983,
i.e., more than 3 years behind the original closing date (June 30, 1980).
The Project Completion Report is based on IDA supervision reports,
transport sector  moranda, and data and information contained in the
project's files. A PCR mission was undertaken in November 1983 in connection
with the last supervision mission of the concerned project to obtain more
detailed information on the actual costs of the project. The PCi, prepared
by Ms. Sylla, was completed in February 1984, and its late distribution was
due to the extension of the Books' closing date to allow retention payments
and all authorized disbursements from the credit proceeds.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
aludit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft report was seat to the Borrower for comments; their reply is shown
as an annex to the report.
.-                                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- ii -
BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Basic Data Sheet
Appraisal
Key Project Data                         Estimate             Actual
TotaL project cost (Taka million)          8.5                 7.5
Under-estimation                             -                11.8%
Loan amount (US$ million)                  5.0                 5.0
Disbursed                                    -                 4.4
Cancelled                                    -                 0.6
Physical completion date                 02/28/80        06/30/85 (estimate)
Operating performance                                       progress made
Financial performance                                       not achieved
Institutional performance                                   progress made
Other Project Data
Government's application                                         12/74
Signing date                                                  09/30/77
Board approval                                                07/12/77
Effectiveness                             i0130/77            03/13/78
Closing date                              06/30/80            08/15/83
Borrower executing agencies                                 PSI Division;
BIWTA; BIWTC
Fiscal year of borrower                                     01/07 - 30/06



- iii -
No. of   No. of    Man-      Date of
mission Data            Month/Year    Weeks    Persons   Weeks    Reports
Identification           08/10/75       2.3         2       4.6    05/12/75
Pre-appraisal            22/02/76       4.0         3      12.0    22/06/76
Appraisal                02/10/76       2.0         3       6.0    20/06/77
Post-appraisal           04/03/77       2.0         3       6.0        -
Supervision    1         30/01/79       1.0         4       4.0    13/03/79
Supervision   II         29/05/79       1.0         3       3.0    12/07/79
Supervision  III         23/09/79       2.0         2       4.0    30/10/79
Supervision   IV         05/02/80       2.0         2       4.0    14/03/80
Supervision    V         06/10/80       0.4         4       0.8    10/11/80
Supervision   VI         08/02/81       0.1         1       0.1    11/03/81
Supervision  VII         22/04/81       1.0         2       2.0    17/06/81
Supervision VIII         27/11/81       1.0         2       2.0    25/02/82
Supervision   IX         01/06/82       1.0         1       1.0    20/07/82
Supervision    X         17/10/82       2.0         2       4.0    06/12/82
Supervision   XI         25/04/83       2.0         2       4.0    27/06/83
Supervision  XII         23/11/83       2.0         2       4.0    10/01/84
Country Exchange Rates                  Year          Average Exchange Rate
Appraisal                               1977                 15.67
Intervening years                     1978-1982              16.93
Estimated Completion year               1983                 23.76



-iv 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 735-BD)
Highlights
i.      The objectives of the Second Inland Water Transport Project were:
(a) to improve the operational and institutional performance and financial
position of the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIUTA) and the
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC) thereby enabling the
Inland Water Transport (IWT) sector to play its proper economic role in the
Bangladesh transport system and (b) to assist the Government of Bangladesh
(COB) in preparing a medium-term investment program on the basis of which a
future Bank project could be adequately prepared.
ii.     The proceeds of the US$5 million credit approved for this project
were on-Lent to BIWTA and BIWTC as loan at 91 interest rate for a period of
15-1/2 years (including a grace period of 3-1/2 years) except for the portion
of the credit used to finance technical assistance studies which was provided
to BIWTA as grant and to BIWTC as a soft loan at 0.75Z interest rate for a
period of 15-1/2 years including also a grace period of 3-1/2 years.
iii.    The components of the project to be originally financed under the
credit included: cargo handling equipment and materials, spare parts for
vessels, navigational aids and hydrography equipment, materials and equipment
for cargo vessels, telecommunication equipment for the whole IWT sector and
specialist services to: (a) review, recommend and assist in implementing
measures for improving BIWTA's and BIWTC's finance and accounting systems,
cargo vessel deployment, cargo handling operations and communications within
the Inland Water Transport Sector; and (b) assist GOB in strengthening plan-
ning/project preparation and in providing training. Except for the first
lists of priority needed spare parts which were co be prepared by BIWTA and
BIWTC themselves, most of the equipment and materials to be procured from the
proceeds of the credit were to be determined by the specialists as part of
their studies.
iv.     Although most of the specialists' recommendations were accepted by
the GCO antd the concerned agencies (BIWTA, BIWTC), they have been implemented
only to a limited extent. No equipment and material for cargo vessels were
procured and only limited cargo handling equipment (three cranes and two
forklifts) was financed from the proceeds of the credit (para 3.38). Under
the telecommunication component, only the MF and HF equipment were procured,
due to the contractor's inability to supply the VHF equipment. To assure the
maximum utilization of the credit, the Bank agreed at GOB's request to real-
locate about 171 of the credit amount to finance urgently needed hydrography
equipment (para 3.39), additional requirements for spare parts and a mini IBM
computer to upgrade BIWTC's accounting machines (para 3.44). Because of the
contractor's inability to supply the required hydrography equipment before
the final disbursement date, this component was dropped from the project.



v_
v.      Except for the installation of the telecommunication component which
took six years to be completed, most of the project's components experienced
two to four years delay in their implementation schedule. This was the
result of (a) delays experienced in hiring the consultants, (b) delays
experienced by the consuLtants in completing their studies, (c) the general
slow procurement and decision making process within the responsible agencies
and the Ministry of Communication (HOC) and (d) the contractors' and sup-
pliers' inability to meet their delivery dates.
vi.     At the expected closing date (December 1983) of the project, its
total cost was about 12Z below the appraisal's estimates as the result of
less procurement than expected, and savings generated under the spare parts'
component. Except for the spare parts and the 13 SSB radio sets (para 3.31)
procured from selected manufacturers and the mini-computer procured under a
negotiated contract, all the goods financed under the credit were procured
through ICB.
vii.    Because of the above delays (para V), disbursements lagged far behind
appraisal estimates. The closing date of the credit was extended three times
and books were kept opened sixteen months behind the last closing date
(August 1983) to aLlow payments for the remaining approved contract under the
Telecommunication component. At the final disbursement date, an undisbursed
balance of USS0.6 million was cancelled. 1/
viii.   Although some positive results were achieved in the accounting
aspects of both agencies (BIWTA, BIWTC) and in BIWTC's dockyards' operations,
most of the expected improvements in the agencies' institutional and opera-
tional aspects were not achieved. This resulted from the fact that only a
few recommendations of the cargo handling study were implemented, no action
was taken to strengthen the agencies' planning system, most spare parts were
received at the last stage of the project and the Telecom component has not
been implemented during the project period.
ix.     Though the recommendations of the finance and accounting studies were
the only studies to have been implemented to a greater extent, and a few
loans were converted into grant, the expected improvements in BIWTC's and
BIWTA's financial positions were also not achieved since GOB's decision on
the major financial restructuring plans proposed by both agencies are still
awaited. The financial restructuring of these agencies remain the last
covenant to be met under the credit.
K.      Since the objectives of the project were aimed at defining the sec-
tor' s requirements and achieving institutional, operational and financial
improvements, no economic rate of return was calculated in the appraisal
report. Thus, such calculation has not been carried out in this report which
also does not include a chapter on the analysis of the project's benefits
which are sufficiently detailed in Chapter III.
Ll BIT;.7TA comments that many short extensions were not useful because formalities
LoL!ld not be completed in this time. BIWTA would have preferred longer
extensions.



-vi-
xi.    Although all the objectives of the project were not achieved, the
studies carried out have (a) underlined to BIWTC, BIWTA and MOC most of the
deficiencies in their operational, financial and institutional aspects,
(b) provided the most suitable recommendations to address these deficiencies
and (c) defined priority investments to upgrade the sector's overall
activities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 735-BD)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since the independence war in 1971, Bangladesh has made significant
efforts in reconstructing and expanding its transport sector's network.
AlI the main entities included in the transport sector are state-owned.
Bangladesh's transport system consists of the Bangladesh Railway (BR), the
Bangladesh Biman Domestic and International Airlines, the Bangladesh Road
Transport Corporation (BRTC), the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
(BIWTA), the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC), the two
major maritime ports operated by Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) and Port of
Chaloa Authority (PCA) and a large private sector including numerous inland
water operators of mechanized fleet 11 and non-mechanized fleet (country
boats), and motorized and non-motorized road transporters. Virtually all
imports of the country pass through Chittagong Port and all exports (consist-
ing mainly of Jute) are handled at Chalna Port. Despite the steady change in
favor of road transport which carries about 20% of the sector's total freight
traffic and 50% of its passenger traffic, 2/ the poor state of the road
network and the high costs involved for its maintenance make the inland water
transport (IWT) subsector the most economical means for carrying freight
traffic and the best suited to the deltaic nature of the country's geography.
1.02    The inland water transport sector is under the responsibiLity of the
Ministry of Communication (MOC) through its Ports, Shipping and Inland Water
Transport (PSI) Divisicn which exercises its duties through BIWTA and BIWTC.
BIWTA was established in 1958 to control the inland waterways, regulate and
control traffic 3/ and fares 3/, and maintain inLand ports' infrastructures
and navigation channels.  It also acts as a coordinating body for the
development of the private sector's operators. BIWTC was created after the
independence in 1972 through the nationalization of the mechanized fleet of
about ten operating firms mostly left behind by Pakistan and foreign com-
panies. Both entities suffer from poor organizational features, inefficient
operations, and a precarious financial position. The objectives of the
Second Inland Water Transport (IWT) project were to assist them in improving
their services, strengthening their finances and key institutional aspects,
and preparing priority investment projects for the whoLe IWT sector. IDA
financing mainly was to complement other financial and technical assistance
provided by various foreign countries notably Norway and Netherlands.
Although some positive results were obtained under the second IWT project,
all the expected improvements were not achieved.
1/ Dumbcraft, self-propeLled vessels, coasters, tankers and launches.
2/ Transport sector memorandum (October 4, l982).
3/ Except those under BIWTC's responsibility.



-2-
1.03    Given the extensive involvement of the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
and bilateral financing agencies in Bangladesh's transport sector, IDA's
assistance has been limited since 1964 1/ to highway and inland water tran-
sport subsectors. From 1961 to 1982 the Bank group Lent a total of US$194.9
million with the objective of assisting the sector to expand, improve or
rehabilitate its existing infrastructural facilities, equipment and vesseLs.
The Bank contributed to the financing of five (5) projects in the IWT subsec-
tor which benefitted from 23.6% (US$45.9 million) of the Bank's total assis-
tance to the transport sector.
1.04    At the time of appraisal of the second IWT project, the subsector
had already received four (4) credits 2/ amounting to US$40.9 million. The
first credit (16-PAK) was made to then East Pakistan in 1961 and the last
credit (424-BD) in 1973.  A supplemrntary credit was approved in 1975 for the
procurement of two second-hand tankers for lightering imported oil. All the
five projects are now completed. However, under the last two credits (339-BD
and 424-BD) progress in physical imp'Lementation was slow and suffered from
cumbersome procurement procedures. Consequently, the first IWT project
(424-BD) was completed two years behind its estimated implementation
schedule. For the same reasons, the second IWT project (Credit 735-BD) took
more than five years to be completed.
II. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01    Following the completion in November 1974 of a transport survey 3/
which provided a comprehensive review of the transport sector up to 1973, the
Bangladesh Government called upon the Bank to help upgrade the inLand water
transport (IWT) sector. However, because of the lack of skilled and
experienced personnel within the country, and the absence of comprehensive
data for the IWT sector, the Government's investment plan proposed to Bank's
missions was found not to be directed towards the needed operational improve-
ments and based on realistic traffic forecasts. Therefore, to help address
the above constraints, IDA proposed a small investment program drawn up on
the basis of the sector's immediate needs, including a number of technical
assistance studies. The objectives of these studies were to update and
improve the data base of the sector and to assist MOC, BIWTA and BIWTC in (a)
preparing a medium-term investment program for the sector including suitable
projects for possible future IDA financing; (b) improving the operational
efficiency of the inland water transport sector i.e. BIWTA's cargo handling
operations, BIWTC's vessels scheduling, and the short-term working efficiency
of the sector's telecommunication system as a whole, and (c) improving the
l Bank group assistance of US$19 million was provided for four railway
projects, three in 1950's and one in 1964 to then East Pakistan.
21 Two credits were made in 1961 and 1964 to then East Pakistan, one credit
in 1972 for Coastal Area RehabiLitation and Cyclone Protection Project;
and the first IWT project wa^' financed under Credic 424-BD in 1973.
3/ Carried out by the Economic Intelligence Unit under UK financing.



-3-
accounting systems of BIWTA and BIWTC. IDA financing which was originally
set for US$14 million was reduced to US$5 million.
2.02    The proposed second IWT project was based on a two years and nine
months implementation schedule and was expected to be completed by February
1980. The project was estimated to cost about US$8.5 million (Tk 133.2
million) with a foreign exchange component of US$4.79 million, and included
the following components as by the responsible Ministry (MOC) and Agencies:
(a) MOC
- Telecommunication equipment for the whole IWT sector.
- Technical Assistance Studies - for teLecommunication
feasibility study, and to improve project planning and
preparation.
(b) BIWTA
- Three (3) mobile cranes for use on river side jetties at
Dhaka and Khulna
- Cargo handling materials and equipment
- Spare parts for vessels, navigational aids and hydrography
equipment
- Technical Assistance Studies to improve cargo handling
operations, and finance/accounting procedures and systems.
(c) BIWTC
- s-ate parts for vessels
- Technical Assistance Studies to improve vessels' operations,
and finance/accounting procedures and systems.
Except for spare parts for vessels, navigation aids and hydrography equip-
ment, the precise costs and types of all equipment and materials to be
procured under the project were to be determined by the consultants foLlowing
the results of their studies.
2.03    During negotiations (in May 1977) the issue which caused most dif-
ficulties was the proposed estimated man-months and the resulting estimated
cost for the proposed technical assistance studies. These difficulties
mainly reflected the Government's sensitivity in regards to the costs and
varied quality of the many consultants already working in Bangladesh under
various multilateral and bilateral financing. However, since it had been
recognized that in the event local consultants were appointed the gLobal cost
for technical assistance services could be substantially reduced, the Bank
agreed to reduce its proposed initial allocation of US$900,000 to US$720,000
and gave assurance to the delegation that any excess provision for such
services would be reallocated for the procurement of other components under
the project.



-4-
2.04    At the end of negotiations, all the components of the project as
described in para 2.02 were agreed upon as well as the timings set for con-
sultants' appointment, and the impLementation of the main covenants (Annex 1)
set in the credit agreement. The Bank's credit of US$5 million representing
about 59Z of the total project's estimated cost was designated to cover 100Z
of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for locally
manufactured equipment, materials and spare parts, 50% of total expenditures
for imported spares procured locally and 100% of the technical assistance's
cost. However, it was agreed that total local cost expenditures (including
the local costs for technical assistance) would not exceed the limit of
US$0.4 million equivalent.
Covenants
2.05    The major undertakings as set out in the credit agreement are shown
in Annex 1. ALthough the Government, and the responsible agencies (BIWTA and
BIWTC), had not been able to comply with the timing set in the covenants,
efforts were made to comply with most of them except for the financial
restructuring of BIWTA and BIWTC on which covenant the Government's final
decision is still awaited (paras 5.11 and 5.14).
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Project Start-up
3.01    As covenanted in the credit agreement's sections 3.02 and 3.05, MOC,
RIWTA and BIWTC were expected by December 31, 1977, to have completed the
consultants' appointment for the six technical assistance studies, and the
latter two to have forwarded to the Bank, their priority lists of needed
spare parts for vessels, navigational aids and hydrography equipment. The
processing of these components started promptly after negotiations. By
November 1977, applications from about 20 consulting firms had already been
received, and the priority lists of needed spare parts had already been
prepared and most items agreed upon by the Bank. However, because of the
late effectiveness of the credit, 1/ the project implementation slowed down
and did not improve later on.
3.02    The signing of the contracts with consulting firms started in
November 1978 and the latest contracts to be signed were for the telecoumunication
feasibility study (April 1979) and the project planning/preparation study
(October 1979) both of which were administered by the PSI Division (Annex 2).
The delay in appointing the telecom consultants was due to its omission from
the original request for proposals sent out in November 1977. Later on,
because of the absence of the required technical staff within PSI Division to
handle the evaluation procedures of firmz proposals, the responsibility for
the Telecom subproject was transferred to BIWTA. Most of the studies started
1/ The credit became effective (March 1978) fi-'e monchb behind the original
schedule (October 1977).



-5-
during FY1979 except for the project planning/pr-^aration study which started
only in April 1980, i.e. more than three years behind the estimated schedule.
3.03    Disbursement started only in December 1978 (instead of March 1978)
and lagged far behind the appraisal estimates during all the project's
implementation period (Annex 8). This was the consequence of the delays
experienced in the completion of the technical assistance studies and the
resulting delays in the procurement procedures for the acquisition of
materials and equipment which started only in March/April 1981, i.e., one
year and two months behind the original estimated completion date (February
1980) of the project. DeF,ite the fact that the PSI Division and the con-
cerned agencies submitted several plans of actions at IDA requests to speed
up the implementation of the project, the results were somewhat disappointing
until the completion of the project.
Reallocation of the Credit Proceeds to Meet Additional Priority Requirements
3.04    Since no equipment and material had been procured for BIWTC's cargo
vessels and only less cargo handling equipment was financed under the project
than originally expected, the GOB and the Bank agreed in July 1982, to real-
locate the remaining uncommitted Funds of the credit for the financing of
additional requirements for: (a) spare parts, and hydrography equipment for
BIWTA; and (b) spare parts and a computer equipment for BIWTC, in order to
assure the fuLl utilization of the credit amount. However, an undisbursed
balance of US$0.6 million was cancelled. The table below shows the original
(appraisal estimates) and the actual allocation of funds between the
Project's components.



-6-
Reduction or
Increase over
Original         Actual          Original
Appraisal Estimates                 Allocation      Allocation       Allocation
(Million)      (Million)         (Million)
MOC
Planning/Project
Preparation Study                    0.140          0.202             .0.062
BIWTA
Cargo Handling Material
and Equipment                        1.100          0.349             -0.751
Spare Parts for Vessels,
Navigation and Hydrography
Equipment including 7 radio sets   0.500            0.884             +0.384
Technical Assistance                   0.240          0.194             -0.046
Telecommunication
Technical Assistance                   0.080          0.119             +0.039
Equipment                              0.300          0.372             +0.072
BIWTC
Spare Parts for Cargo Fleet
including 6 radio sets               1.500          1.870             +0.379
Technical Assistance                   0.260          0.298             +0.038
Computer                                 -            0.107             +0.107
Contingencies                          0.880
Undisbursed Balance                      -            0.605
Total                          5.000         5.000
Except for the cargo handling equipment and technical assistance components
for BIWTA where some savings were made, the ir.tial allocations for all the
other project's components were increased. The total actual allocations for
technical assistance (US$813.000) was about 13% above its reduced negotiated
level (US$720.000). This increase would have been more substantial and above
the Bank initial allocation (US$900.00) (para 2.03) if most of the main
recommendations of the studies had been implemented.
Implementation Schedule
3.05    At the original expected completion date (February 1980) of the
project, most of the consuLtants' reports were still under review except for
the cargo handling study report which was completed in August 1979. However,
for this study, consultants failed to include in their report the main
characteristics of the first priority equipment to be procured under the
project, which was forwarded to BIWTA, at its request, only in late January
1980. Most of the project's components acknowledged two to four years delay
in tneir implementation schedule, except for the telecommunication component
which took six years to be compLeted. Most delays resulted mainly from
(a) the slow procurement and decision-making process within the concerned



-7-
agencies and the responsible ministry (HOC); (b) the delay in hiring the
consultants; (c) the attempt by most of Lhe retained consulting firms to
change the composition of the teams originally proposed at the last moment;
(d) the difficulties experienced by most consultants in getting reliable data
and information; and (e) the delay experienced by the consultants themselves
in providing their respective final report and lists of equipment and
materials to be procured under the project.
3.06    Difficulties and reasons explaining delays experienced under each
technicaL study as weLl as the actual and estimated implementation schedule
of the project are detailed in Annexes 2 and 3 respectively.
Reporting
3.07    Although the request for keeping IDA continuousLy informed of the
progress of the studies was stipulated in the TOR of alL the consultants, few
of them complied effectively with this requirement. Most of the progress
reports received from the consultants were of general nature and related
mainly to difficulties encountered in getting suitable data or accommodations
rather than to the progress of the study itself. No progress report was
received from PSI division, and those few received from BIWTA and BIWTC were
less than satisfactory. Most of the information received on the progress and
performance of the project was either from IDA supervision missions or cor-
respondence received from the IDA Resident Mission in Dhaka.
Main Recommendations of the Studies and the Status of Implementation bY
Responsible Ministry and Agency
3.08    At IDA request, special attention was made to assure that an
implementation program was included in each of the studies to ascertain their
full benefits.
MOC - Project Planning/Preparation Study
3.09    Under this study the consultants were to make suitable recommenda-
tions for (a) improving the existing management information system (MIS)
within PSI Division and BIWTA; (b) strengthening BIWTA's, BIWTC's and PSI
Division's planning cells; (c) establishing an effective project monitoring
system; and (d) defining (i) specific project proposals for the rehabilita-
tion and development of major inland waterways, cargo handling facilities at
major inland and sea ports, as well as at passenger terminals, and (ii) a
program for the rehabilitation/replecement of vessels in BIWTC's fleet. The
ultimate objective of this study was to assist HOC in developing a suitable
pipeline of priority investments for the IWT sector.
3.10    The results of the study indicated that the main problems faced by
BIWTA and BrWTC resulted mainly from the lack of organizational and technical
experience combined with an antiquated fleet and a labor intensive port
system. In th.s view, the study recommended the reorganization of BIWTA and
BIWTC with more emphasis on BIWTA's reorganization since this agency has
direct impact on the planning and implementation of the sector's main
projects. The main recommendations of the study for BIWTA's reorganization
included the following: (a) the shifting of its headquarters fro,m Dhaka to
Barisal; 1/ (b) the separation of the existing hydrography and hydrological
1/ See BIWTA comment on this recommendation.



-8-
department from BIWTA; (c) the strengthening of its planning department;
(d) the installation and operation of a Management Information System (MIS)
supported by a data bank; and (e) improvement of its finance and accounting
system. For BIWTC, the consultants recommended (i) the strengthening of its
Planning Department, (ii) improvement of its accounting and finance system,
and (iii) the transfer of the operations and maintenance functions of the
corporation under the direct control of the chairman.
3.11    As regards to projects' preparation, and monitoring, the consultants
suggested: the inclusion in the project proforma (PP) of more detailed
economic analysis to allow the selection of the best alternatives as welL as
bar chart and timetable to allow a better follow up of project implementa-
tion. On the basis of their estimated traffic growth and the sector's future
requirements for infrastructural facilities, cargo handling equipment and
vessels, the consultants recommended for the IWT sector as a whoLe, 14 major
projects (Annex 4).
3.12    Apart from a few exceptions, most of the major recommendations and
findings of the study were accepted by the PLanning Commission(PC), MOC, and
the concerned agencies. However, during the project period only a few steps
were taken for their implementation. Among the 14 priority investment
projects recommended by the consultants, four projects including
(a) improvement in cargo handling system at the major river ports;
(b) improvement in bagged commodity handling system; (c) facilities for
handling containerized cargoes at major river ports; and (d) improvement in
foodgrain handling system, were included in the second five year plan
(1980/81 to 1984/85) as suggested by the PC, leaving the remaining for the
third five year plan due to financial and organizational constraints.
3.13    Keeping in view most of BIWTC's, BIWTA's and PSI division's comments,
a fresh list of projects including most of those proposed by the study, as
well as those already included in the second five year plan (excluding the
projects already completed or under implementation) was prepared for IDA
assistance (Annex 4). At the GOB's request, the Bank agreed to hire consult-
ants to carry out further study to determine the required facilities (includ-
ing civil works and equipment) for handling containerized cargoes at major
river ports. The TOR for this study has been now finalized. The movements
of containers by the IWT sector is expected to be one of the major components
of the Bank's future IWT project.
3.14    The major disagreement was formulated by BIWTA in regards to the
(a) shifting of its headquarters to Barisal; (b) separation of hydrography
and hydrological department from BIWTA; and (c) staffing pattern for the
proposed MIS and data bank, which according to BIWTA needs further examina-
tion. For BIWTA, the shifting of its headquarters to Barisal and the crea-
tion of a separate hydrography and hydrological department may cause adverse
effects on the overall development and maintenance of the IWT infrastructure
and hamper its dredging and conservancy operations. However, despite these
objections, the Government has already instructed BIWTA to start taking steps
for the implementation of most of these organizational changes.
3.15    Because of the lack of qualified technical and management personnel,
no step was taken under this project for the implementation of the MIS and
the data bank. However, in regard to the need for gathering and improving



-9-
the flow of information within the sector, due consideration should be given
to this component during the preparation of the Bank's future IWT Project, as
well as to the required staff training to strengthen the agencies' planning
cell. Most of the additionaL posts recommended by the consultants to
strengthen BIWTC's planning cell still need to be filled up. Based on the
consultants' recommendations and its own actual requirements, PSI's planning
cell established in January 1983 its own program of training and approached
UNDP for its financing.  It seems that UNDP is now considering a technical
assistance program of about US$250,000 for training abroad for about twelve
(12) persons.
BIWTA - Cargo Handling Study
3.16    The main objective of the cargo handling study was to improve BIWTA's
cargo handling system at the major inland ports. Thus at the end of their
study, the consultants were expected to have (a) developed means for improv-
ing cargo handling efficiency and made specific recommendations for the
modification of existing equipment/or facilities, as needed, to meet the
country's short term and medium term cargoes throughput; (b) advised upon the
priority needed equipment and materials to be procured under the proposed
credit for an immediate improvement in the efficiency of cargo handling
system and storage procedures, and lighting Eor night working at ports; and
(c) assisted, iE requested, in implementing the agreed recommendations. The
report issued by the consultants met satisfactorily all these requirements.
3.17    The main findings of the study underlined the poor quality of exist-
ing cargo handling facilities at all the inland ports, and the need to
increase the number of mechanical lifting equipment (such as mobile cranes,
forklifts and wheeL trolleys). On the basis of the consultants' forecasted
cargo movements, 1/ most of BIWTA's existing infrastructural facilities at
the six (6) main inland river ports 2/ need to be improved or expanded (such
as che case for the Patuakhali port) to be able to meet future demands, and
proper lighting are needed to increase net working time. To improve the
existing ports' operations, the consultants also recommended that the exist-
ing contractuaL arrangement with stevedores be discontinued and qualified and
licensed contractors be allowed to perform the stevedoring at the major
inland river ports.  The creation of a pilot port was also recommended as
well as the establishment of a central repair workshop at Khanpur/Narayanganj
to assure an adequate maintenance of the cargo handling equipment and to
serve as a training ground for all levels of staff in the application of
improved methods of manageinent, operation and maintenance. At BIWTA's
request, the consultants drew up a List of required equipment to meet its
short-term and medium-term requirements as well as rough cost estimates for
the imediate requirements (Annex 5).
1/ Due to the lack of statistical data, tonnage of main commodities handled
at che 2 seaports (Chittagong and Chalna) formed the basis of the estima-
tion made for the cargo movements by inland water transport. To compen-
sate for estimate shortfalls the quantities have been increased by 25%.
2/ Dacca, Narayanganj, Chandpur, Khulna, Barisal, Patuakhali.



-10-
3.18    Although BIWTA has accepted all the consultants' recommendations,
it has been able to implement them only to a limited extent. Apart from
carrying out some repairs and renewals to physical assets and the acquisition
of six mobile cranes and two forklifts (para 3.38), BIWTA has not taken
effective action to benefit from the study mainly due to financial and staff
constraints, and frequent changes in chairmanship. In view of the great
effects of ports' facilities and cargo handling systems on the movements of
goods within the country, it is proposed that adequate provision be made
under the Bank's future IWT project for the implementation of the main
recommendations of the study.
BIWTA - Telecommunication Feasibility Study
3.19    The main objective of this study was to help define the immediate
requirements of the sector, in order to improve its overaLL short-term
working efficiency. Thus, the consultants were expected to (a) review the
sector's telecom-network operated by the public and private sectors; and
(b) draw up the list of required equipment to be procured under the project
and assist in establishing tender documents. The consultants performed their
tasks satisfactorily and most of their recommendations were taken into
account except those objected by the telegraph and telephone board (T.T.B.)
(para 3.33 and Annex 6).
BIWTC - Fleet Scheduling Deployment Study
3.20    The objectives of this study were (a) to advise BIWTC in improving
its operational and maintenance procedures; (b) to determine the required
optimum and economic size of BIWTC's fleet to meec the sh.ort and medium-term
estimated demands in relation to the carrying capacity of the private sector;
and (c) to assist BIWTC, if requested, in implementing the aFproved recommen-
dations.
3.21    Although improved scheduling of vessels and their waintenance was
the main objectives of the study, the consultants rightly considered it
necessary to examine the organizational and management aspects of the cor-
poration. Their study identified most of the deficiencies in BIWTC's
organizational, technical and commercial aspects, and made detailed and
extensive recommendations for improving the corporation's overall perfor-
mance. The study also provided a manual for developing a vessel monitoring
system as well as a well thought out implementation schedule. The consult-
ants' report was found excellent both by BIWTC and the Bank and all its
recommendations were accepted. Among the short-term and long-term organiza-
tional changes recommended by the consultants, the most important ones were
the following:
(a) The development of vessel management as a distinct function
within the corporation;
(b) The development of a vessel monitoring system to moniror the
activities and performance of BIWTC's -vessels;



To carry out such changes, BIWTC was expected to appoint two
senior officers at the rank of deputy manager; one responsible
for vessel management and the other for vessel monitoring
system;
(c) The need for intensive on the job training to improve dockyard's
operations;
(d) The introduction of a systematic maintenance schedule for vessels
and the scrapping of over-aged vessels;
(e) The timely and adequate availability of foreign exchange for
spare parts; and the introduction of appropriate spare parts
recording systems;
(f) The subdivision of the fleet operations into three groups (bay
crossing vessels, inland vessels, and passenger vessels and
ferries) to be put under separate responsibilities; and
(g) In the long run the consultants recommended: (a) the devel-
opment of a separate vessel management department; (b) the
appointment of two additional commercial managers: one respons-
ible for bay-crossing vessels and the other ones for passenger
and ferry services; and (c) the separation of the commercial
department from the vessel monitoring system.
3.22    An estimation of the future optimum size and composition of BIWTC's
fleet was also made, for the years 1984/85 through 1989/90 during which
period the consultants' major reconmendations were (a) the acquisition of
about six new 1500 ton self-propelled barges for the inland trade in grain
and fertilizer, three new (or second-hand) oil tankers, and one bay-crossing
vessel; and (b) the progressive reduction of the coaster fleet and inland
flats respectively to 12 each through scrapping or disposal.
3.23    Despite some constraints beyond its control, BIWTC's management made
appreciable efforts to implement several of the short-term recomnendations.
In July 1981, two senior officers were appointed as vessel deputy manager and
vessel monitoring system (VMS) deputy manager. Out of the eight junior
officers recommended to assist the vessel and VMS managers, four (4) of them
were appointed. The appointment of the remaining four are still subject to
the lifting of government's embargo on staff recruitment. BIWTC's efforts in
recruiting the recommended five (5) marine engineers were unsuccessful due to
difficulties in finding qualified people within the country. However, a
time-table was drawn up for survey and vessel maintenance, and the respon-
sibility for fleet operations was subdivided into three groups. The vessel
deputy manager has the responsibility for inland vessels, the assistant
commercial manager is looking after the passenger vessels and ferries and the
VMS deputy manager in addition to developing the VMS, is responsible for the
bay-crossing vessels. On the basis of the consultants' recommendations a
reorganization program was established by BIWTC's management and sent for
COB's approval in l'ctober 1983. COB's decision is still awaited. Most
deficiencies in BIWTC's organizational aspects are expected to be tackled
under IDA future IWT project. Up to now, out of the 117 over-aged vessels



-12-
presently identified, a total number of 31 I/ vessels have been disposed of
and a program for new acquisitions has been drawn up and sent for COB's
approval.
3.24    Since the improvement in dockyards' management and on the job train-
ing had been found to be of urgent necessity, the Bank agreed to BIWTC's
request in July 1982 to finance the services of an expatriate team for a
period of about one year to implement the consultants' key recommendations in
these areas. Since in July 1982 all funds under credit 735-BD had already
ben allocated, 2/ this technical assistance was financed under the third
technical assistance project (Credit 872-BD). In total, about 50 technical
staff (mainly engine operators) were trained under this technicaL assistance
program which was satisfactorily completed in November 1983. However,
although BIWTC had demonstrated its willingness to implement many of the
consultants' recommendations, much still remains to be done particularly in
regards to the reorganization of the corporation, and the hiring of qualified
staff which are both the key elements for an overall improvement. In view of
the difficulties in getting quaLified local technical staff. BIWTC's manage-
ment would have to provide its engineers with extensive on the job training
to upgrade their skills. For undertaking this task, BIWTC will need finan-
cial and technical assistance support, for which suitable provision could be
made under IDA future IWT Project.
BIUTA - BIWTC - Accounting and Finance Studies
3.25    The objectives of both studies were to:  (a) provide BIWTA and BIWTC
with appropriate accounting systems and procedures and on the job and train-
ing abroad for their staff; (b) define the appr3priate methods for financing
their various type of activities, and improving their respective financial
position and structure; (c) prepare for BIWTC medium-term financial forecasts
based on priority investments; and (d) make recommendations for upgrading
their accounting machines. The consultants performed their tasks satisfac-
torily, and appreciable efforts were made by both agencies to implement most
of their recommendations as described below:
(a) All accounting records, forms and reports were reviewed and
redesigned, when needed, to improve their information content.
(b) For each agency, an accounting manual as well as and internal
audit manual were developed on the basis of the revised account-
ing systems and incorporated alL the consultants' recommendations.
Besides the need for training for the internal audit staff, the
consultants also recommended the introduction of an internal
control questionnaire to evaluate the effectiveness and adequacy
of the agencies respective interral control system. This is
1/ The slow disposal of over-aged vessels resulted mainLy from the country
current economic recession.
2/ The undisbursed funds of 0.6 million became available only in November
1983, when the contractors indicated their inability to supply the VHF
equipment and the hydrography equipment (paras 3.34 and 3.39).



-13-
expected to be implemented as soon as the additional manpower
recomended by the consultants for both agencies will be
appointed.
(c) During the implementation of the new accounting systems, the
consultants provided assistance and guidance to both agencies'
concerned account officers and clerical staff through seminars
and on the job training, which were substantially beneficial in
familiarizing them with their new work. Under the consultants'
recommendations, an implementation cell was constituted within
BIWTC. Four senior officials, three from BIWTA 1/ and one from
BIWTC 2/ aLso attended at the consultants' development center
a two weeks executive seminar 3/ on financial management and
control and management reporting system.
(d) The extension of the consultants' contract by two additional
months allowed them to develop a new cost accounting system
for BIWTA's dredging operations and to ascertain within both
agencies the full understanding of the overall aspects of
their proposed new accounting systems.
(e) To improve their financial position and structure, the con-
sultants recommended far BIWTA: increase in tariff rates;
conversion of existing government loans, including accrued
interests thereon, into grants; request for concessional
interest rates on future government loans; prompt and accurate
billing-of ports and other charges; prompt collection from
sundry debtors; and strengthening of control over expenditures;
and for BIWTC: enhancement of fare rates; conversion of some
GOB's loans into equity; the financing through grants or equity
of all future capital expenditures undertaken for social
reasons; and the condonation to BIWTC of all subloans donated
to GOB by foreign countries as grant.
3.26    Most of the above recommendations (para (e)) made for BIWTC were
incorporated in the financial projections (for FY1980 through 1985) prepared
by the consultants in FY79 and updated in FY81, at BIWTC's request, to take
into account the increase in fuel cost and the corresponding increase in
fares and freight rates. Based on an estimated annual increase of 6Z in
BIWTC's freight traffic during the second five years plan (1980-85), the
projected capital expenditures included the rehabilitation or replacement of
existing old vessels, modernization of dockyards and repair facilities and
timely imports of spare parts, as recommended under the fleet scheduling
study.
1/ Directors of Finance, of Accounts and the Finance Member.
2/  The former Finance Director.
3/ Including site visits, observacions of selected ports' operations and
discussions with the Philippine Port Authority's officials.



-14-
3.27    All the recommendations of the consultants were accepted by both
agencies and most of the proposed new accounting systems were implemented
except for BIWTA's new dredging accounting system, the systematic valuation
of its stores as recommended by the consultants, some new procedures of
bilLing and revenue collections and the aging of its debtors (para 5.06).
To allow BIWTA to implement the remaining recommendations and ascertain in
both agencies the full integration of the whole new accounting systems, BIWTA
and BIWTC indicated that their accounts departments need to be adequately
staffed to cope with the additional work created by the introduction of the
new accounting systems. These requests have still not been satisfied due to
COB's embargo on staff recruitment. It is now understood that the embargo
would be maintained until a final decision is made upon the recommendations
of the committee constituted by GOB to review the manning scale of all public
autonomous bodies.
3.28    Most of the consultants' recommendations for improving the agencies'
(BIWTA, BIWTC) financial position and structures were included in their
respective financial restructuring proposal to GOB. Although some positive
actions were taken by both agencies and GOB, several recommendations still
remain to be fully implemented.  BIWTA's revenue collections improved only
marginally, no concrete action was undertaken to reduce its increasing out-
standing debtors, and the efEective rate increases agreed by GOB were insig-
nificant in regards to the increases in its operating costs.  Tie existing
severe competition from the private sector prevented BIWTC from adequately
adjusting its fares and rates. Though GOB agreed to a few loans conversion
into grants, it is stilL considering both agencies' major financial restruc-
turing proposals (paras 5.11 and 5.14).
3.29    The consultants also looked into the possibility of mechanizing some
of BIWTA's accounting activities (such as payroLl preparation, ledger post-
ings), and suggested the acquisition of a minicomputer (such as Model NCR
8250). However, this proposal had to be abandoned mainly due to some indoors
resistance to any kind of mechanization to avoid the problem of excess staff-
ing. However, with the introduction of the new accounting system, the
resulting increase in accounting workload and the actual difficulties in
getting the suitable additional accountants, BIWTA has now become more agree-
able to the idea of mechanizir.g some of its accounting work. This matter
should be followed up during the preparation of the Bank's future IWT
project. Under the consuLtants' recommendations of computerizing BIWTC's
accounting work, the Bank agreed to BIWTC's request to finance a
mini-computer under this project (para 3.44). By improving BIWTA's and
BIWTC's accounting system, providing the required staff training and improv-
ing BIWTC's internal informat_on system (para 5.03) and its accounting
machine, the accounting/finance studies fulfilled their objectives.
Procurement and Physical ImpLementation
3.30    Except for the first priority lists of needed spare parts and the 13
radio SSB sets which were initially prepared by BIWTC and BIWTA themselves,
1/ As of June 30, 1983, BIWTA's outstanding debtors amounted to Tk 55.2
million of which 70% was on behalf of the public sector.



-15-
all the equipment and materials procured under the pr-oject were made under
the recommendations of the consuLtants following the results of their
studies. Most deLays experienced in th'a implementation phase of this project
resulted mainly from difficuLties experie-c2d in procurement process due to
the frequent changes in the suppLiers' shipment schedules, the resulting need
for extending L/Cs, and some contractors' inability to fulfill at the last
moment their contractual agreement. Except for (a) the 13 new radio SSB sets
and spare parts for vessels, navigationaL aids, hydrography equipment and the
existing radio SSB sets, procured from selected manufacturers; and (b) the
computer equipment purchased under a negotiated contract, all the remaining
items financed under the credit were procured through ICB. By December 1983,
all items financed under the project were effectively received or completed
except for spare parts for a total worth of US$6,888 which were cleared with
the customs authority only in May 1984 and the instaLlation of the telecom-
munication component and its related local training which are still ongoing.
BIWTA - Telecommunication and Related Staff Training
3.31    Because of the delay experienced in carrying out the telecommunica-
tion feasibility study, and the urgent needs for additional new portable
radio sets to maintain adequate communications between the two agencies
(BIWTA and BIWTC) and their vessels, the Bank agreed in November 1978 to the
procurement of 13 new radio SSB sets for BIWTC (6) and BIWTA (7), including
spare parts for BIWTC's oLd radio sets. The six new SSB radio sets for BIWTC
were required for repLacement purposes; and the seven new SSB radio sets for
BIWTA were to be used mainLy for the hydrography survey of the Pussur
river. 1/ In order to get lower unit quotation and ascertain a reasonable
standardization, the procurements of the SSB radio sets were made jointly
through selective competitive bidding. By June 1980, all the 13 radio sets
were effectiveLy received by their respective agency.
3.32    The controversies which arose in defining the scope of the telecom
subproject, and deLays experienced in the procurement and installation of its
components were one of the main issues of this project. OriginaLly six
agencies including BIWTA, BIWTC, BTTG, BSC, PCA, CPA and the private sector
were listed as the beneficiaries of the project. However, because of BSC
non-involvement in the inland waterways sector 2/ and the closing down of
BTTG, both agencies were dropped from the project respectively in December
1980 and March 1981. Though Port of Chalna Authority (PCA) and Chittagong
Port Authority (CPA) are international sea ports, they were included in the
project for some of their involvements in the inland waterways sector,
besides the great needs for improving their telecom networks.
3.33   The detaile. feasibility study prepared by the consultants was com-
pleted in February 1980. Following several meeting with the Telephone and
Telegraph Board (TTB), substantial changes were made to the consultants'
recom endations at the request of TTB in regards to the number of the
1/ A study financed under Credit 872-BD.
21 BSC evolvement in the project was mostly on behalf of BTTG which wats
under its authority.



-16-
proposed equipment (HF, VHF, MF) and their respective power output to avoid
duplications and interference with the stations of the neighboring countries
(Annex 6). Consequently tenders documents which were initiaLly established
by the consultants in July 1980, were revised twice, and floated only in
March 1982, evaluated in June 1982 and approved by HOC in JuLy 1982. In
December 1982, separate contracts (including local and abroad training
programs) for each of the three (3) types of telecommunication equipment (HF,
VHF and HF) were signed and LICs were opened in January 1983. However, in
February 1983, HF and VHF contracts had to be amended to reduce the number of
trainees 1/ to be sent abroad (from 14 to 5) 2/ within the limit of fund
allocated by the Planning Commission for this purpose.
3.34    All the three contractors felt to meet their contractual shipment
dates which had to be extended from April 30, 1983 to July 31, 1983. In
August 1983, i.e., eight months after the signing date of the contracts, the
VHF contractor indicated that its Local agent who signed the contract on its
behalf had had no authority to do so, and requested substantial changes to
the conditions of its contract (relating to limitation of liability, guaran-
tee period, arbitration and payment terms) before it couLd deliver the equip-
ment. Although the Bank and MOC agreed to these modifications, the contrac-
tor declined, in October 1983, to honor its contractual agreement. BrWTA had
therefore no option but to encash the amount of the performance bond fur-
nished by the Local agent. Though the last supervision mission (in November
1983) had not supported BIWTA's request for continuing the disbursement
period of the credit for an additional year to allow the retendering for the
VHF equipment, consideration is being given to the financing of this equip-
ment under the flood rehabilitation program or IWT III project, both of which
are still under preparation.
3.35    The NF and HF equipment were all received in September 1983.
However, the installation phase of most equipment was delayed substantially
and the MF equipment is now not expected to be commissioned before the end of
June 1985. Because of a) disagreements developed between the MF contractor
and its local agent, b) difficulties experienced in replacing the new trans-
mitter damaged during shipment, and c) the MF contractor's own failure to
provide in the required bank guarantee to allow advance payment of the
remaining dues 3/ from the credit proceeds before the books' final closing
date, BIWTA calLed upon TTB in February 1984, to repair and install the MF
1/ The original training ,rogram abroad included 14 trainees [ll for HF
(three engineers and eight technicians) and 3 for VHF (one engineer and
two technicians)] for a period of two months; and the local training
program included a total number of 89 operators (76 for HF, five for MF
and eight for VHF) in addition to those to be sent abroad for a period in
the range of two weeks to two months.
21 The five trainees included two for the HF equipment and three for the
VHF equipment.
3/ Payment~s due after provisional acceptance on completion of installation,
testing and staff training and on final acceptance on completion of the
guarantee period of one year.



-17-
equipment and to impart the related local training for five (5) operators.
Since disbursement from the credit has now been closed, BIWTA agreed to meet
these installation and training costs from its own budget. In regards to the
HF equipment, the battery chargers delivered with were found of different
make than those contracted for. It was only by end December 1983, that the
contractor finally agreed to lower the quoted price for its battery chargers
which was BIWTA's ultimate condition for accepting the equipment. However,
because of the 9 months delay in clearing the contractor's engineers' tools
from customs and the difficulties experienced during the installation period,
the HF component was completed only in May 1985 including the local training
for 46 operators instead of 76 operators as originally planned. Under the HF
equipment, the training abroad for two (2) electro-engineers (one from BIWTC
and one from BIWTA) for a period of two months was satisfactorily completed
in October 1983. Despite all the Bank's efforts to accomodate the compLetion
of the Telecom-subproject, through several extensions of the disbursement
closing date, it is the only component (financed under the credit) which is
still not fully commissioned after a delay of more than 6 years in its
implementation schedule.
BIWTA - Spare Parts
3.36    Under the project, US$0.5 million was initially allocated for the
procurement of the first priority needed spare parts for vessels, naviga-
tional aid and hydrography equipment. Bv December 1977, all the lists of
spare parts were forwarded to the Bank and approved. However, because of
the slow procurement process, and the suppliers continuously changing their
shipment dates, it was only in November 1981, that all the first priority
needed spare parts were effectively received.
3.37    Following the recommendations of the cargo handling study and the
need to assure the full utilization of the credit, the Bank and GOB agreed
in July 1982, to provide BIWTA with an additional allocation of US$362,812
for the procurement of additional needed spare parts. Here also, because of
BIWTA's management indecision whether to procure spares for its hydrography
equipment or vessels, the procurement process was substantially delayed. It
was only in September-December 1983 that all the additional spare parts were
received. Consequently most of the improvements expected in vessels opera-
tions and hydrography surveys didn't materialize during the project period.
Due to savings generated under these procurements, only 96% of the total
allocations (US$862,812) made under the credit for spare parts were effec-
tively utilized by BIWTA.
BIWTA - Cargo Handling Equipment
3.38    Following the results of the cargo handling study, the consultants
drew up a list of materiaLs and equipment including their detailed specifica-
tions to meet BIWTA's priority requirements for efficient cargo handling
operations. However, in September 1980, BIWTA decided to procure only three
diesel mechanical cranes and two forklifts, leaving aside towing tractors,
trolleys and workshop equipment, since: (a) 33 hand-trolleys in good working
conditions had been discovered in its stores, for which n^ tractors were
required; and (b) BIWTA had found that existing public and private local
repair facilities were appropriate to assure an adequate maintenance and
repair of its cranes and forklifts in addition to its own repair workshops at



-18-
Barisal.  In December 1981, all the equipment procured under the credit were
effectively received and installed. Both forklifts were installed at
Narayanganj Port.  In addition to the three cranes financed under the credit,
three other cranes were procured under Norway's financing. All the six
cranes were installed at Dhaka/Narayanganj and Khulna ports, where the bulk
of IWT cargoes are handled.  As recommended by the consultants, all the
equipment were provided with adequate supplies of spare parts; and the sup-
pliers' two engineers sent to Dhaka for the installation of the equipment,
provided satisfactory on the job training to about four (4) cranes and
forklifts operators.
BIWTA - Hydrography Equipment
3.39    To help improve the efficiency of the Dhaka chain's transmission
system which is required for fixing the position of vessels during
hydrography survey work, the Bank approved in July 1982 under the project,
the procurement of eight numbers of digitaL clocks. However, because of
delays in processing the procurement documents, and the supplier's inability
to supply the equipment before the final disbursement date, expected at that
time to be on December 31, 1983, BIWTA decided to drop the procurement of
these digital cLocks under the project and approached the International
Maritime Organization (a UNDP Executing Agency) to increase the number of the
digital clocks to be procured under a UNDP-financed program approved in
September 1983, for the improvement of hydrography services. 1/ Under the
project, drawing equipment (such as an ammonia printing machine, drawing and
cartography equipment) were also procured to help improve the production of
charts and maps, i.e., the output of the hydrography survey work.
BIWTC - Spare Parts
3.40    In October 1977, i.e., two months ahead of tne appraisal estimated
schedule 2/ BIWTC s lists of priority needed spare parts were forwarded to
the Bank and agreed upon.  The provision set for these first lists of spare
parts was also limited to US$0.5 million, pending the findings of the fleet
scheduling study which was also to determine BIWTC's need for additional
spare parts. These first lists also included the spare parts requirements
for 11 radio SSB sets which were found to be still worth repairing. By end
FY81 most of the spare parts from the first lists were effectively received
by BIWTC.
3.41    Based on the recommendations of the fleet scheduling study, a second
list of priority needed spare parts for vesseLs was drawn up ond sent to IDA
for its approval. IDA objected to the urgency of some requirements, par-
ticularly those related to passenger vessels and ferries and requested BIWTC
to submit a revised list. Since BIWTC had informed that (a) these passenger
vessels were in fact cargo-cum-passenger vessels operating in coastal areas;
and (b) the concerned ferries were also transporting trucks Loaded with
11 This project would provide equipment, technical assistance and training
abroad training.
2/ December 31, 1977.



-19-
foodgrains and other main commodities, the Bank finally accepted to approve
the list proposed by BIWTC with minor modifications.
3.42    Out of a total amount of US$1.885 million allocated for this com-
ponent, only US$0.015 million (0.8%) was not utilized due to a supplier's
inability to submit the required performance bonds before the final closing
date for opening L/Cs. 1/ By October 1983, all the spare parts from the
second list arrived in Dhaka. However, because of BIWTC's resource con-
straints to meet customs duties, clearance procedures were made on priority
basis and it was only in May 1984 that all the spare parts were effectively
received by BITWC.
3.43    Due to the above reason, and the withdrawal from operations of a
number of old vessels, most spare parts procured from the proceeds of the
credit have not been utilized during the project period. 2/ However, with
the recent introduction of preventive maintenance procedures within BIWTC's
dockyards under the recommendations of the specialists financed under Credit
872-BD, moset of these spare parts are expected to be utilized in the very
near future.
BIWTC - Computer Equipment
3.44    Because of the breakdown of BIWTC's accounting machines, the impos-
sibility for the private local computer division to provide timely services
to BIWTC and the strong recommendations of the accounting/finance study to
upgrade BIWTC's accounting machine, the Bank agreed to BIWTC request's in
January 1981, to finance a new computer equipment from the proceeds of the
Credit 735-BD. Because of the existing local back-up facilities for main-
tenance and training, the Bank's computer specialist sent to Bangladesh in
June 1981, recommended the procurement of an IBM Model 34 through a nego-
tiated contract on a turnkey basis. In November 1981, the project's descrip-
tion as well as credit documents were accordingly amended to include this new
component. However due to COB's :ong delay in providing its agreement on
the amended credit documetts, the contract between IBM and BIWTC was signed
only in June 1982.
3.45    In ApriL 1983, the installation of all the computer equipment was
completed as well as the local training provided to two (2) programmers, and
nine (9) data entry operators for a period o. one to four weeks. Considering
the importance of programming, additional local training was provided to the
two programmers. BIWTC postponed the training abroad up to October 1983, to
allow its staff to train themselves on the instaLled equipment and draw the
full benefit from the IBM local agency's assistance. Three account officers
benefitted from the training abroad for a period of three weeks; and in
November 1983, the whole computer training program was satisfactorily com-
pleted. Once fully operational, BIWTC's computer unit would need to be
1/ February 28, 1983.
2/ During the project period, the spare parts procured under the credit
helped to repair only 6 cargo vessels.



-20-
strengthened, thus requiring additional local and training abroad, for which
suitable provision could be made under the Bank's future IWT project.
Project Cost
3.46    The total cost of the project was estimated at about US$7.6 million
including a foreign exchange component of about US$4.1 million (Annex 7).
The total cost was 11.8Z below the appraisal estimates mainly because:
(a) equipment and materials expected for BIWTC's cargo fleet were not
procured under the project as well as most of the cargo handling equipment
recommended by the consultants; (b) savings were generated under the procure-
Lient of spare parts for BIWTA and computer for BIWTC; (c) the VHF equipment
and the main hydrography equipment were dropped from the project; and (d) the
Government's determination to reduce to the minimum possible, Bank-financing
for technical assistance.
Financial Sources and Disbursement
3.47    Out of the total project cost of US$7.5 million, the Bank's financing
of US$4.4 million covered 1002 of the foreign exchange costs and about 9.3Z
of the local costs. The remaining cost of US$3.1 million representing mostly
duties and taxes was covered through COB's ADP funds and the agencies' own
internal resources.
3.48    Throughout the project implementation period, actual disbursement
schedule lagged far behind the appraisal estimates (Annex 8). This was the
results of delays in the completion of the technical assistance studies,
GOB's determination to postpone the reallocation of the credit proceeds until
the estimation of the cost of the telecom subproject's contract (July 1982)
was made known to secure sufficient funds for this component and the long
procurement process experienced under all the oroject components, par-
ticularly in regards to the telecom component. At the original disbursement
closing date (September 30, 1979) only 18% (US$0.9 million) of the total
credit amount was disbursed. To allow the full completior. of the project and
to effect all authorized disbursement from the credit proceeds, disbursement
closing date was extended three times 1/ to August 15, 1983, and disbursement
was continued during FY1984 to accommodate retention payments for the telecom
sub-project. At the books' closing date, US$0.6 million out of the total
Bank's credit of US$5 million was cancelled for reasons indicated in para
3.46.
Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers, Beneficiary Agencies
and the Borrower
3.49    The quality of the studies carried out by the consultants as well
as the related staff training provided by them were satisfactory. The
studies underlined to BIWTA, BIWTC and PSI division most of the deficiencies
in their operations, finance and planning activities, and the corrective
measures and investments required to address them. Although most of the
delays occured in carrying out the studies were mainly due to difficulties
I/ To December 31, 1981, then to December 31, 1982 and to August 15, 1983.



-21-
experienced by the consultants in getting sufficient and reliable data, the
consuLtants also shared some of the responsibility considering their lack of
interest in sharing information among themselves (which could have benefitted
them in their work), their frequent attempts to modify the composition of
their teams at the last minute and their own delay in finalizing their
reports.
3.50    Similarly, the frequent changes in shipment dates due to contractors'
and suppliers' inability to comply with their contractual shipment dates,
resulting in several amendments to their contracts contributed to substan-
tially delaying the implementation phase of the project, and even jeopard-
izing the full realization of all the project's components. For example, the
last minute amendment to be made to the VHF contract documents at the request
of the contractor and his final withdrawaL in October 1983, i.e., two months
before the estimated completion date of the whole project, illustrate some of
the lack of concern on the part of contractors in providing timely services,
or fulfilling their contractual agreements.
3.51    Despite some efforts on the part of BIWTA, the general slow procure-
ment and decision-making process within the beneficiary agencies and MOC have
often raised some degree of doubt in the IDA staff working on this project in
regard to the priority given to its implementation. The successive changes in
Government and the rapid turn over of chairmanship with in the beneficiary
agencies, also strongly affected the course of the project's implementation.
CoB's continued embargo on staff recruitment has hampered the full implemen-
tation of the accounting studies as well as the short term recommendations of
the fleet scheduling study, and its delayed decision on the financial
restructuring of BIWTC and BIWTA has set back the expected financial improve-
ments in both agencies.
IV. TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS
4.01    In 1979, it was estimated that the mechanized fleet carried about 33Z
of the transport sector's freight traffic in terms of tons and 29Z of its
passenger traffic in terms of number. 1/ A significant portion of IWT Sector
traffic is also carried out by the non-mechanized subsector including a very
competitive private sector operating under little regulation at low transport
cost. BIWTA has the responsibility of gathering all information available on
the overall IWT sector's operations and traffic. However, because of dif-
ficulties in locating individual private operators due to frequent changes in
ownership, and their reluctance to supply their traffic datac, and (b) the
poor staffing of BIWTA's port and traffic department, 2/ BIWTA is experienc-
ing tremendous difficulties in establishing reliable statistics on IWT sec-
tor. Therefore, actual freight traffic data gathered by BIWTA goes up to
1/ Transport Sector Memorandum (October 4 1982).
2/ Presently, BIWTA's port and traffic department wouLd need about 24 to 28
qualified staff to help mostly in gathering statistical data at the
different river ports.



-22-
FY1980-81, and are limited to the mechanized fleets which considerably under-
estimate the activities of the rWT sector.
4.02    Since the project had not been designed to have a direct impact on
the sector's traffic and only a few recommendations of the studies aimed at
improving BIWTC's and BIWTA's operational performance had been implemented,
this chapter is limited to a summary of the sector's freight and passenger's
traffic from FY77 to FY81.
A. Freight Traffic
4.03    Based on FY81 statistics, the mechanized fleet consisted of 1369
vessels with a carrying capacity of 397,065 tons. The total freight traffic
moved by the mechanized fleet was estimated at about 4.3 million tons repre-
sentinig an increase of about 9.7% p.a. since FY77. On average, from FY77 to
FY81 che public sector moved about 53Z of the sector's total freight traffic;
its traffic increased by 3.1% per annum up to FY80 (against an appraisal
estimate of 5% p.a.), then decreased by 22% at the end of FY81 (para. 4.04)
due to the private sector's increasing competition. The mechanized fleet was
supplemented by about 90,000 private country boats with an average carrying
capacity of about one to two tons. Although no supportive statistic does
exist because they are thinly spread over the land, it was estimated that the
country boats carried almost the same traffic if not more than the mechanized
fleet and continue to make substantial contribution to economic development.
However, because of the recent changes in local banks' lending terms and the
absence of a well defined Government's policy in regards to inland water
vessels' acquisition, the private mechanized fleet acknowledged a rapid
growth during recent years 1/ particularly in regards to coasters and
tankers. Thus, the sector is currently suffering from excess capacity, and
depressed profit margins. Since January 1981, the Government has been trying
to bring this situation under control and local financial institutions have
been instructed that aLl private's acquisitions should obtain PSI Division's
prior clearance.
4.04    From FY77 to FY81, the main commodities carried by the mechanized
fleet were the following: 2/
1/ From 1977 to 1982, the private sector mechanized fleet increased by 34%,
i.e., by 6.8% per annum.
2/ BIWTA estimates that the overall shortfalls in its statistics are about
5%.



-23-
MilLion Tons
1976-77     1977-78      1978-79      1979-89      1980-81
Foodgrains             0.45         0.99        0.73         1.04         0.93
POL                    0.74         0.85        0.89         1.16         1.37
Jute                   0.37         0.29        0.33         0.31         0.28
Jute goods             0.27         0.27        0.22         0.1S         0.15
Cement                 0.19         0.27        0.38         0.29         0.37
Fertilizer             0.24         0.25        0.40         0.37         0.46
Stones and
shingles             0.11         0.12        0.18         0.11         0.15
Other                  0.33         0.59        0.68         0.59         0.66
Total               2.70         3.63        3.81         4.02         4.27
Public sector
(BIWTC)              1.56         2.28        2.13         2.09         1.62
Z carried by
Public sector         57.78        62.81       55.9l        51.99        37.94
Private sector        42.02        37.11       44.09        48.01        62.06
4.05    The bulk of IWT freight traffic is concentrated on major routes with
about 80% of tonnage moving on routes between Chittagong, Dhaka/Narayanganj
and Narayanganj to Chalna. About 60% of the freight traffic was carried in
bay-crossing operations; and about 56Z of this freight traffic was estimated
to have been handled at the main river ports at BIWTA ports' facilities, most
of which need to be improved. Although the private sector was known to be
more efficient than the pubLic sector (BIWTC) I/ overall vessels' performance
still remain low due to excessive time spent at ports for loading and unload-
ing, long waiting time for maintenance, and limited night sailing.
B. Passenger Traffic
4.06    At the end of FY81, the passenger mechanized fleet carrying capacity
was estimated at about 155,389 steam and motor launches of which 91%
(141.830) was estimated to be for the private sector and 9% (13,559) for the
Public Sector (BIWTC). From FY77 to FY81, the private sector carried out
about 94% of the total traffic in terms of passenger number and 87% in terms
of passenger miles with an average haul of 25.2 miles. The public sector
with its average haul of 61 miles, i.e., 2.4 times the average private haul,
was operating on trunk routes and was mostly used by long distance travellers
while the private operators provided feeder services. The table below sumr-
marizes the passenger traffic data compiled by BIWTA.
1/ In FY81-82, the average turn around time for BIWTC s cargo vessels were
about 35 days except for inland flats/barges which acknowledged about
40 days; and the maintenance schedules of vessels was estimated around
30 to 60 days.



-24-
Passenger      Passenger-Miles         Length
(Million)          (Million)           (Miles)
1977-78
Private           41.21              1,038.5             25.2
Public              2.00               121.9             61.0
Total           43.25              1,160.4             26.9
1978-79
Private           41.47              1,038.0             25.2
Public              2.63               160.4             61.0
Total           44.10              1,198.4             26.9
1979-80
Private           43.46              1,097.9             25.2
Public              2.84               173.2             61.0
Total           46.30              1,271.1             27.5
1980-81
Private           44.61              1,126.4             25.2
Public              2.79               170.2             61.0
Total           47.40              1,296.6             27.4
4.07    Contrary to the freight traffic, there is a capacity gap for pas-
sengers services particularly in the private sector, resulting in overloading
boats (double-decker vessels and single-decker launches) and increasing risk
of accidents. Therefore, although the campaign launched by BIWTA in 1977 to
promote private's passenger services was not a success, the expansion of
private ownerships should be encouraged to meet the sector's requirements.
V. FINANCIAL IMPROVEMENTS
5.01   To help address BIWTA's and BIWTC's financial deficiencies and make
BIWTC a viable commercial entity, it was agreed under Section 4.03 of the
project's credit agreement that COB would review both agencies' financial
conditioas (including their loan liabilities and their capability to service
their debts), and would take appropriate measures to improve their respective
financial structure by proposing to IDA not later than December 31, 1978 a
financial restructuring plan for each of the agencies. To assist the Govern-
ment in the preparation of these plans, specialists were appointed to help
improve BITWC's and BIWTA's accounting procedures as well as the presenta-
tions of their financial statements and to provide both agencies with
appropriate advise for the formulation of tbeir respective financial restruc-
turing proposal to GOB. The ultimate objective of improving BIWTA and



-25-
BIWTC's accounting systems, and their financial structure was to: (a) bring
the go%ernment to establish specific financial objectives for BIWTA and
(b) help BIWTC to generate sufficient revenues to cover its debt services by
about 1.5 times starting FY79/80. Since only few loans had been converted
into grants and GOB's final decision on the agencies' major financial
restructuring proposals is still awaited, these later objectives have not
been achieved.
A. Improvement in Accounting System
BIWTC
5.02    The full implementation of the recommendations of the accounting/
finance study substantially improved the presentation of BIWTC's financial
accounts (para 3.25). Although the presentation of BIWTC's assets register
was also improved and is being updated now on a regular basis, there is still
a need to assess the physical existence of some of its components, to ascer-
tain that depreciations are not being calculated on fictitious assets or on
assets withdrawn from operations. During the last supervision of the project
in November 1983, BIWTC agreed to hire a local consultant to assiqt its staff
in carrying out such work. In order to reduce its operating losses, BIWTC
had also decided to start charging to capital expenditure the cost of some of
its repair and maintenance work if the benefits of such work are expected to
last more than one year.
5.03    The improvement in BIWTC's accounting system mostly contributed to
improving its internal information system. Since FY82, vessel-wise earnings
and expenditures accounts (including depreciation and interests) have been
drawn up on a mon hly basis, thus providing BIWTC with a strong management
tool. On the basis of costs and profitability, BIWTC should now be able to
decide which services to maintain or upgrade, which ones to withdraw promptly
or reduce gradually, and on which costs (such as fueL) strict control should
be acted upon to reduce operating losses. With such information in hand (if
produced in a timely manner) BIWTC's management should be able, if supported
by GOB, to put the corporation on a healthier financial footing.
5.04    During the project period, BIWTC had made appreciable efforts in
clearing up the audit of eight years accounts. However, due to computer
unavailability and time lost in appointing auditors, most of the reports were
completed behind the timetable agreed upon in the agreed minutes para. 4
(Annex 1). After three (3) years of persuasion, MOC agreed to issue, in
January 1981, a general order allowing all the agencies under its jurisdic-
tion to appoint auditors for a period of three years. This should allow
BIWTC, in addition to the use of its new mini-computer (IBM 34) to produce in
the future timely audited accounts, i.e., 6 to 9 months after the end of each
fiscal year. BIWTC's external auditing is now being done by two private
Chartered Accountant firms and the quality of the reports was f-Ind adequate.
5.05    The audit manual prepared by the consuLtants to improve BLWTC's
internal audit procedures was accepted by BIWTC's Board of Dire:rors only in
February 1983 and its full implementation has also been hampered by GOB's
embargo on staff recruitment. So far only the introduction of the proposed
pre-auditing system has been taken in hand.



-26-
BIWTA
5.06    Through the implementation of most of the finance and accounting
study's recommendations, the presentation of BIWTA's financial statements
was also substantially improved (para 3.25). Under the consultants' recom-
mendations BIWTA hired in April 1983 a local auditing firm to carry out the
aging of its debtors; but the work is being held back due to difficulties
encountered in extracting the required data from BIWTA's old records. For
the same staffing problems, the existing internal audit department has not
been strengthened, and the creation of an internal control cell as well as
the introduction of a questionnaire to check the existing recording system,
as suggested by the consultants, have been postponed up to now. BIWTA
requested at least a total of 33 additional accounting staff to strengthen
its Accounts Department 1/ and its Internal Audit Department. 1/
5.07    Although BIWTA had also not been able to comply with the agreed
timetable, it had made appreciable efforts in clearing up the audit of 9
years accounts; and most of its audited reports were provided to the Bank
within 6 to 9 months after the end of each fiscal year. BIWTA's external
auditing has been the responsibility of the Government auditor; and the
quality of the reports were also found adequate.
B. Financial Restructuring Proposals
BIWTC
5.08    Following the completion of its accounting and finance study, which
provided a clear picture of its financial position, BIWTC presented to the
Government in September 1982 its first financial restructuring proposal
requesting that about 85 (Taka 482.7 million) of its total outstanding loans
(Taka 566.8 million) as of June 30, 1982 be restructured as follows: (a) all
the foreign exchange financing provided to GOB by donor countries as grant
(Taka 183.8 million) and interest free loans (Taka 186.5 million) be passed
on as such to BIWTC and (b) 40Z (Taka 112.4 million) of its outstanding ADP
loans (Taka 277.2 million) contracted for the financing of vessels for social
reasons be converted into equity. As of June 30, 1982, about 772 of BIWTC's
debt services (Annex 16) was on accounts of ADP loans which represented 48.9%
of its outstanding total loans at that time. However, GOB agreed to convert
into equity only the outstanding foreign financing of Taka 183.8 million
originally provided as grant by the donors countries, and which amount was
aLready requested to be considered as grant in BIWTC's proposal. As a
result, BIWTC's entire loan service burden was left unaffected.
5.09    Consequently, BIWTC requested from GOB that:  (a) the structural
status of all its above foreign currency financing of Taka 370.3 million
(including grants and interest free loans provided as such by donors), be
1/ Out of the 33 additional staff 26 would be for the accounts department
and 7 for the internal audit department.



-27-
maintained as recorded in its books of accounts 1/ and (b) instead of con-
verting into equity the Taka 133.8 million which was already considered as
grant in its books, and equal amount (Taka 183.8 million) be drawn fronm its
existing outstanding ADP loans (Taka 277.2 million) 2/ and converted inti
equity. Meanwhile, the National Economic Council (NEC) agreed to convert
into grant a total loan of Taka 181 miLlion. Out of this grant, Taka 30
million represented ADP loans. BIWTC requested that this additional grant be
added to Taka 183.8 million recorded as grant in its books, and out of its
remaining outstanding ADP loans (Taka 247.2 million) Taka 183.8 million be
still converted into equity, in order to reduce its debt service to a
reasonable Level, which was the primary objective of its financial
restructuring.
5.10    In addition to the restructuring of a substantial portion of its
outstanding loans, BIWTC aLso requested that, the Taka 51.7 million incor-
porated in its balance sheet as capital fund for the 10 consolidated old
units, should not be treated as part of its equity, since no capital fund was
received by BIWTC at the time of nationalization of these units, but instead
should be used to write off part of its accumulated operating losses shown in
its balance sheet. As of June 30, 1982, BIWTC's total existing equity
amounted, to Taka 232.9 million. With the conversion into equity of the
requested Taka 183.8 million, the total outstanding equity would stand to
Taka 416.7 miLlion, thus well within the authorized equity of Taka 450 mil-
lion.
5.11    However, in June 1983, after detailed reviews of BIWTC's outstanding
loans, and the valuation of its equity 3/ by the Finance Ministry, the latter
indicated that BIWTC debt/equity ratio (53/47) as of June 30, 1983 was
already comfortable and that there was no need for further conversion of
loans into equity. BIWTC contested GOB's method of computing the above
debt/equity ratio, and is now requesting a total conversion of 74Z (Taka 209
million) of its outstanding ADP loans of Taka 282.1 million, as of June 30,
1983 (Annex 9) into equity for a meaningful reduction in its debt service
burden. GOB's decision on this last proposal is still awaited.
BIWTA
5.12    Projects undertaken by BIWTA can be grouped under eleve:z categories
as follows:
1/ As of June 30, 1982, aLl foreign currency financing were already recorded
in BIWTC's books under the same conditions as they were provided by donor
countries to GOB.
2/ As of June 30, 1982.
3/ Calculated by including the capital fund for the 10 consolidated units
and the total reserves set in the balance sheet (as of June 30, 19E3)
and which in fact are not real reserves but grants received for the
financing of 4 L.C.T. vessels and spare parts.



-28-
1. Survey Schemes
2.  Excavation of Canals
3. Consultancy Services
4. Training and Research Institutes
5. Mechanization of Country Crafts
6. Essential Social Services
7. Aids to Navigation Projects
8. Basic Facilities
9. Food Jetties
10. Procurement of Dredgers
11. Workshops Facilities
Apart from some basic facilities and food jetties, and the dredging and
workshops activities which provided BIWTA with little earnings, all the
projects grouped under category 1 to 7 did not yield revenue since they had
been aimed at providing basic services and infrastructural facilities for
inland water transport. Therefore, one of BIWTA's main financial difficul-
ties resulted from the fact that most of these schemes were financed from
loans which BIWTA can neither repay nor service the interests. In March
1978, GOB enacted that all the approved schemes falling under category l to 7
would be financed through grants in aid and agreed to convert into grant a
total loan of Taka 187.3 million. Since then, most of the loans contracted
for unapproved schemes at that time and for new schemes approved later though
classified under the first seven categories have still not been converted
into grant.
5.13    Following the improvements in the presentation of its financial
accounts providing it with a better picture of its financial position, BIWTA
prepared, on the basis of its FY81-82 accounts its first financial restruc-
turing proposal which was forwarded to the GOB in October 1982. In its
proposal, BIWTA requested that out of its outstanding loans of Taka 544.9
million as of June 30, 1982: (a) a total loan of Taka 188.7 million (34.6Z)
be converted into grant; (b) the rates charged for its revenue earning
schemes 1/ be increased by 100% 2/ excluding its dredging and workshops
activities which rates depend upon the costs of work performed; and (c) a
total loan of Taka 42.8 million contracted to finance assets which are cur-
rently being used by BIWTC be transferred to the liability of the latter one.
Out of the total loans of Taka 188.7 million, Taka 52.6 million (27.9%)
represented loans contracted for some revenue earning schemes (such as 3
Landing Stage Schemes and 2 Food Jetties) which, because of their low
utilization and rates charged for, would never be able to generate sufficient
revenues to meet their debt service. After the above adjustment, BIWTA's
outstanding loans as of June 30, 1982 were expected co stand at Taka 313.4
million (including a foreign exchange loans of Taka 112.3 million) repre-
senting only the financing contracted for its revenues earning schemes, its
dredgers and workshops.
1/ Concerned canals, pilotage and conservancy and ports charges.
2/ This was based on the assumption that the loan liabilities would be
reduced as proposed, and thus the related debt service burden.



-29-
5.14    However, in June 1983, under the Ministry of Finance's decision to
convert into grant only 112 (Taka 60 million) of its outstanding loans of
Taka 544.9 million as of June 30, 1982, BIWTA has now sent a new financial
restructuring proposal requesting that: (a) all its outstanding loans as of
June 30, 1982 be converted into grant since all services rendered by it are
for social reasons; and (b) decision be made to finance alL its future
projects through grants. The COB's final decision, which is still awaited
would depend now on the recommendations of a committee which was expected to
be constituted as soon as possible to review the supporting justifications of
BIWTA's last proposal.
5.15    BIWTA's and BIWTC's financial restructuring remain the last covenant
to be met under Credit 735-BD. The provision to IDA with meaningful finan-
cial restructuring plans, as well as the full implementation of the recommen-
dations of the accounting and finance studies should be considered as condi-
tion of negotiations of any future Bank-Group financing to the IWT sector.
Operating Results
5.16    BIWTA and BIWTC's actual financial statements and appraisal
estimates 1/ are shown in Annexes 10 through 15. Since the financial objec-
tives of the Project were mainly to improve BIWTA and BIWTC's accounting
systems and their financial structures, and BIWTC internal cash generation
has not improved, the analysis below are limited to keys factors which con-
tinuous to undermine the financial positions of both agencies.
5.17    During the project's implementation period, both entities had been
faced with deteriorating financial positions. For BIWTC, this resulted
mainly from: (a) the continuous decline in its freight traffic and the
marked increases in its operating costs (such as fueL and maintenance costs)
not offsec by comparable increases in fares and rates; (b) its obligation at
GOB's request, to continue to operate uneconomic passenger services; (c) its
own management inefficiency and slowness in taking corrective actions; and
(d) its increasing debt service burden resulting mainly from loans incurred
to procure uneconomic vessels to service public interests. At the end of
FY83, BIWTC's payable debt service represented 14.72 of its total revenues
(Annex 16). At the end of FY81 BIWTC's net operating losses amounted to
Taka 41.5 Million (against an appraisal estimated loss of Taka 33 MilLion)
(Annex 11) and its cumulative Losses at the end of FY83 stood at the level of
Taka 129.2 Million. Therefore, if BIWTC's financial restructuring is
expected to provide some relief, effective improvements in its financial
position would depend upon others factors such as: (a) the withdrawal of its
main revenue loosing passenger services and the subsidization by the GOB of
those maintained for pubLic interests; (b) BIWTC's own capability of attract-
ing more cargoes, and carrying out profitable operations at low costs; and
(c) the gradual replacement and modernization of its aging fleet. Since (a)
a number of these factors might weigh on GOB's already limited resources and
(b) an overall improvement in BIWTC's operations and management might take
some time, if not impossible, to materialize as long as BIWTC would remain in
the public sector with the primary objective of serving public interest,
1/ Limited to BIWTC's profit and loss accounts.



-30-
there is a case for a gradual privatization of a substantial portion of
BIWTC's revenue losing operations.
5.18    BIWTA's declining financial position during the past six years
resulted mainly from: (a) its low rates arbitrarily set by GOB; (b) its own
difficulties in collecting its revenues from inland water operators; and
(c) the low utilization of its dredgers and workshops facilities mainly due
to the high costs of their services, in comparison to those provided by the
private sector. At the end of FY83, BIWTA's cumuLative losses shcsn in its
balance sheets amounted to Taka 54.7 MiLlion. In reality these losses were
underestimated since no adequate provisions were made for depreciation in
FY1978 and FY1979, provisions for bad debtors were substantially low and no
interest on foreign loans and GOB's loans were charged to income stateu-ents
since 1978, although BIWTA had paid a total interest of about Taka 452 Mil-
lion during the past six years.  If BIWTA's financial restructuring will also
provide some relieve, the improvement in its financial position would depend
upon the quantum of work GOB would agree to provide for its dredgers and
workshops to optimize the use of these facilities and allow BIWTA to earn
sufficient revenues to cover the operating costs of these facilities and the
revenue shortfall of its other revenue-earning schemes since there is little
prospect that BIWTA's rates would be adequately adjusted for sociaL reasons.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
BIUTA
6.01    Because of several changes in its chairmanship during the past six
years, BIWTA had lacked some strong directives from its top management
resulting in an increasing Government's involvement in its internal decision
making process. Communication within the authority also weakened with each
manager running his department as a separate organization. Prese-.:-ly. there
is no systematic management information system within BIWTA, and meetings at
the managerial level which were previously organized on a monthly basis, are
now held on an ad hoc basis when required by the GOB or the Chairman to seek
solutions for specific problems. The advisory committee, 1/ which was
re-established in 1977 under the Bank's recommendation, with the e .pectation
that it would provide BIWTA with excellent source of information on the
overall IWT sector's operations and requirements, thus allowing BITA to play
its role of coordinating body, has not been effective up to now mainly due to
BIWTA's own lack of initiating meetings with the concerned parties. As its
accounts department (para 5.06), BIWTA's ports and traffic section also needs
to be strengthened with additional qualified staff to alLow the authority to
gather meaningful data on the sector's traffic and update its records. Cur-
rently, BIWTA requires further technical assistance to improve its planning,
costing, data collection and processing functions. Most corrective measures
to be introduced in these areas have been underlined in the project's plan-
ning and preparation study, and cargo handling study.
1/ Includes representatives from aLl agencies as well as the private sector.



-31-
6.02    BIWTA's workshops at BarisaL also needs %a) an efficient management
system to introduce better planning of work and effective costs control; and
(b) qualified technical staff (such as marine engineers) to improve the
overall maintenance system. Currently, BIWTA needs: a general manager with
mechanical engineering background; an experienced marine engineer with wide
experience in repair work of marine diesel engines; a ship building engineer;
and a cost accountant to streamline the stores, purchasing procedures, bill-
ing and man-hour control. Since the country has a shortage of qualified
persons, some of these requirements could be met either by hiring consultants
who would help to streamline the existing systems and provide on the job
training or by organizing abroad training for key staff. As indicated by
BIWTA, it seems that NORAD is considering providing BIWTA's workshops with
some technical assistance to introduce some improvements in their working
activities, particularly in regards to maintenance practices.  During the
preparation of the next IWT project, an appropriate level of concertation
should be kept with NORAD, if the Bank would also consider financing some
technical assistance for the Barisal workshops.
6.03    In regards to the reorganization of BIWTA's headquarters, BIWTA had
already been instructed by GOB, in October 1983, to transfer to Barisal its
hydrography, and conservancy and pilotage departments. This decision seems
to have affected the moraLe of the staff and most of them who went to settle
in Barisal are now back to Dhaka due to difficulties in finding suitable
accommodations and social services for their families.
Staffing and Training
6.04    In June 1983, BIWTA had a total of about 4,800 employees incLuding
those at the Barisal Workshops. Since wage levels have been tied to those of
the government services, which are relatively low, BIWTA has difficulties in
attracting, and retaining qualified staff.  In recent years, skilled and
semi-skilled personnel at all level have been attracted to more highly paid
work in middle east countries. Under the Second IWT Project, a total of
about 25 staff benefitted from local training, 1/ and one engineer was sent
abroad for training under the telecommunication subproject. Since most of
BIWTA's middle level officers require some kind of training, only on-the-job
training, to be provided either by consultants or equipment suppliers,
appears to be the most appropriate means to meet such a large training
requirements.
BIWTC
6.05    During the past six years, BIWTC has also been adversely affected by
the successive changes in Chairmanship and Finance Director.  BIWTC needs an
eftective reorganization to introduce improved management and institutional
systems particularly in the areas of vessel monitoring, ma.ntenance, store
controls and procurements. Besides the fact that BIWTC's dockyards stilL
need to be rehabilitated and modernized, they are also suffering from the
twin problems of excess and shortages of stores due to: the acquisition of
1/ In accounting work and in operating cargo handling e-uipment (cranes and
forklift).



-32-
more slow moving items and the lack of an appropriate assessment of the
requirements at the time of placing orders. There is a need to streamline
BIWTC's stores to: (a) identify spare parts and materials to be disposed
off; (b) make suitable recommendations for an efficient use of thr remaining
ones; and (c) introduce a more systematic control on stores' procurements to
cut back excess requirements. To allow the management to exert better con-
trol on its dockyards' activities and make timely decisions, one of the
corrective actions would be to introduce a budgetary control system within
each dockyard and eventually to establish separate financial statements for
each of taem. Once the computer unit would master the use of its equipment,
it should also be able to store data on dockyards' activities and to provide
the management with a systematic up-to-date statistic data on the performance
of the dockyards' overall operations and productivity, thus allowing a better
control on operating assets, stores and costs.
6.06    Most of BIWTC's organizational and institutional deficiencies were
underlined in the fleet scheduling study. The technical assistance services
financed under Credit 872-BD to improve BIWTC's dockyards management and
vessels' operations were substantially beneficial in providing on-the-job
training, preventive maintenance procedures and effective advices on means to
reduce fuel consumptions and costs.
Staffing and Training
6.07    In May 1983, BIWTC had a total effective staff of 7,159 against a
total sanctioned staff of 8,668. The marine and engineering departments
accounted together a total vacancy of about 1,055 staff (including 40
engineers), representing about 70% of the total vacancies.  As within BIWTA,
because of the government's low salaries, BIWTC has also difficuLties in
attracting and retaining qualified staff.  During the project period, on the
job training was provided to u-ost of the  "ey accounting staff, and to about
50 dockyards' technicians and one telecow engineer.  However, without an
adequate staffing of BIWTC with qualified technicaL staff, the corporation
would continue co require technical assistance to streamline its operations
and provide on the job training.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01    At the time of appraisal, neither an investment program nor an
appropriate data base and traffic forecasts existed to allow the Bank to
formulate a coherent investment program for the IWT sector. Under such a
circumstance, the Bank did well in reducing the scope of the project to the
immediate priority requirements of the sector, and in putting more emphasis
on technical assistance studies in order (a) to tackle the sector's major
institutional constraints; and (b) to prepare a comprehensive investment
program on the basis of which a future Bank's project could be developed.
Under the Bank's constant supervision, and guidance, all the studies were
adequately prepared and included appropriate implementation programs for the
key recommendations. To allow BIWTC to draw some immediate benefits from
the vessel scheduling study, and the accounting and finance study, the Bank
did well in financing (a) additional technical assistance services under



-33-
Credit 872-BD to introduce some improvements in BIWTC's dockyards' manage-
ment; and (b) the needed computer equipment which was not originally included
in the project. All the studies were substantially beneficial to the whole
inland water transport sector, in terms of gathering in a comprehensive
manner the needed statistical data, and identifying the priority areas in
need for improvements within BrWTA and BIWTC, as well as seccorwise.
7.02    Although the physical impact of the project was Little in regards to
the sector's requirements, the size of its physical components was
appropriate in regard to the objectives of the project which were to prevent
further deterioration of key vessels and equipment and improve the sector's
telecom network and main ports' operations. Although several factors beyond
control contributed to delaying the project implementation phase, the Bank's
implementation scheduLe for the various projec.'s components as well as its
estimated credit disbursement schedule were too optimistic in regards to the
slow decision making process within Bangladesh and the usual delays in
procurement. Since the teLecommunication subproject had been the main issue
of the project, the Bank provided considerable support to help solve its
various implementation problems. However, instead of reallocating in July
1982 most of the undisbursed funds under the credit for the procurement of
additional spare parts, the Bank should have pursued the Government to put
more emphasis on the implementation phase of the studies, either by hiring
additional consultants' services, or by arranging training abroad for some of
BIWTA's ports and traffic and planning departments' staff, which training
would have been the first step towards the implementatior. uf the needed
sectorwise managem.nnt information system.
VIII. CONCLUSION
8.01    The five-years delay experienced in the project implementation period
have allowed to complete most of the physical components financed under the
project and to achieve a few institutional changes. The whole technicaL
assistance component provided, zn addition to their useful recommendations
(a) the required staff training in accounting, maintenance and operations of
key cargo handling equipment, and (b) brought BIWTC to start introducing
improved maintenance procedures and vessels scheduling and considering some
required changes in its organizational structure. Besides the fact that the
project provided a clear picture of the sector's constraints and require-
ments, further appreciation of the project performance is rendered difficult
since the recommendations of the studies were impLemented to a limited extent
mostly due to the general slow decision making process within the country,
the Government's willingness to reduce to the minimum IDA financing for
technical assistance, and the limited scope of the project itself which was
aimed at meeting the priority immediate requirements of the sector.  The next
IDA project should mainly focus on the implementations of the studies' key
recommendations.
8.02    Lessons to be learned from the project are the following:
(a) although studies financed under the project were needed to define the
sector's main requirements, COB's sensitiveness to IDA financing technical
assistance studies should be taken into account to reduce delays in project
implementation. Therefore, fucure IDA financing should include limited



-34-
technical assistance component as possible with immediate impact on the
beneficiary's operations and focus more on development activities; (b) in
regards to the country's weak implementation capability, estimated implemen-
tation schedule should be more conservative; and (c) the poor performance of
some contractors under this project, raise the need for IDA to start estab-
lishing performance reports on contractors to track those ones with poor
records.



-35-                           Page
BANGLADESH
INLAND WATER IRJaSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COM PLETION REPORT
Compliance wlth Covenants and Undertakings
Project Agreement                 Status
Section 2.04     ClosLig date June 30, 1980.  Extended to August 15, 1983.
(Third extension)
Section 3.01(b)  Proceeds to be passed on       These financial arrangements
to BIWTA and BIWTC on         were a condi tion of effecti-
terms satisfactory to         veness.  In July 1977, GOB
the Association,              agreed to pass on the credit
proceeds to:
(a) BIUA as grant except
for equlpmet for revenue
earning schemes which were
Telent at 9? p.a. for a
period of 12 years including
a grace period of 3 1/2 years.
(b) BIUTC as loan at 9%
p.a. for 12 years Licluding
3 1/2 years grace - except
for technical assLstance
studies which was made as
soft loan at 0.75% for a
period of 12 years Including
a grace period of 3 1/2 years.
Section 3.02     Borrower to appoint by         Not complied with by due
December 31, 1977              date.  Last speciallsts to
specialists to assist         be appoLnted was in October
to assist in carzying         1979.
out Part C of project.
Note: Part C ls use of
technical services for
(i) strengthening planning,
preparing draft investment
plan, and assessing need
for equipment for telecomu-
nications; (ii) improving
IITA-s accounting, financial
structure, management and
cargo handling facilities;
and (iiL) Lmprovement of
ITCs accounting, financial
structure, management and
cargo vessel deployment.



-36-
ANNU L
Page 2
Section 3.05     Borrowar to scud, by            Complied with.
Decmber 3L, 1977 a list of
spar: arts to be procured
under PCrt B of project.
Notet Part U Ls improveent
of efficiency of vessels of
BNUTC and B3IUA through
provision of spare parts.
ScetLon 4.01(b)  Starting frost FY7/78           Not complied wLth by due
ZWA:'s cmd tTC's audited       dates, but all reports
accounts and reports to        werc received.
be sout to TM within six
moths after the and of
each fiscal year.
Section 4.02     By Deember 31, 1978, MOC        Not complied with by due
to scud draft medium-term      date. *Evesteet needs of
Lnvsteut plan for DT           each agency  B3lWC, BtIlA)
Sector.                        and PSI DLvsLon were
provided to IDA in
December 1981.
Section 4.03     By Dcember 31, 1978, COB        Not compled with by due
to se" to M  its plans         date as appoLatmat of
for fieacal restructuring   specialists was delayed (see
of B1SA and BTC and by         Section 3.02).  BZVTC's and
Jue 30, 1979 to implent    BIes financial restructur-
such pla"s.                     ng proposals were submitted
to Finance Mnis try but GOB's
decsion is stLil awaited.
Section 4.04     By June 30, 1978, GOB to        Not complLed with by dua
send to iDA audited reports   date.
of the accounts of BIVCA
gud BMiUC for Ff74-78.



-37-
ANNEX L
Page 3
Schedule 3               Procurement
Section A        For ICB - follov guidelines,  Complied with.
except for those Items in
SectLon B.
Sectlon B        Other procurement procedures:
Spare parts - can be         Complied with.
negotiated with suppliers
of origlnal equipmnt;
and, for contracts up to
$5,000 can follow normal
GOV's procedures provided
the aggregate of such
contracts do not exceed
$50,000.
Section C.2      Domestic preference applies.  Complied with.
Section D.1      Review of invitations to        Complied with.
Bid and Proposed Awards:
- Over $50,000, IDA to
approve all documents,
and proposed award.
- Less than $50,000. Bid
evaluation and copies
of contract to be sent
to IDA after execution.
Agreed Minutes
Para 2.          Details of what iLrestment    Complied eith
plan must contain.
Para 3.          GOB (upon request of IDA)       Complied with
to keep rDA informed of
substantial iLrestments in
IWT sector - between date
of signing and December
31, 1978.
Para 4.          Timetable for production of
audited accounts.



-38-
ANNEX I
Page 4
IVTA           $TC            Not complied with agreed
teetable but all audited
1974/75  August 1977    June  1977      accounts were received.
1975/76  December L977  December 1977
1976/77  June 1978      June 1978
Para 6.          BIUTA (upon request by IDA)   Complied vith
To advise of any significant
decisions made by the
Advisory Coumittee.



-39-                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Difficulties and Reasons Explaining Delays Experienced Under each
Technical Assistance Study by Responsible Ministr= or Agencies
I.      Port, Shippiug and IWT Division of HOC
Project Planning/Prolect Preparation Study
1.      Because of lengthy negotiations between MOC and the consultants in
regards to the number of man-months requLred for the study, the contract was
onLy signed in October 1979, i.e. , 22 months behind the agreed schedule. The
contractual completion time of the study was expected for April 1980.
However, because of the Last minute changing of the project manager, the
appoiLtment of an additional economist (proposed by the consultants at their
own costs), and the delay &n the consultants' arrival In Dhaka, the project
started only in April 1980. Later on, because of delays occurred In
researching and developing reliable data 11 for the study, and more Impor-
tantly the many improvements still requlred to be made to the consultants
interim report for satisfactory results, the Bank and HOC had to agree to the
consuLtants" request to extend their contract by two addItional months. Th*
extension allowed the consuLtants to provide more detailed projects' descrip-
tions with their associated costs and benefits and their implementation
schedule, and to make suitable recommendations for a) improvements in the
existing maintenance practices and b) the installation of a management iafor-
mation system and a data bank.
2.      The study was completed in February 1981.  Following a thorough
reviev of the final report by the concerned agencies and MOC, lt was only
in December 1981, i.e., three years behind the origiual agreed schedule
(December 1978) that the medium-term investment plan for the IWT sector was
provided to the Bank.
1/ Since in-depth analysis to meet the specifications of the TOR were either
not av&llable, or Incomplete or Unsubstantiate.



-40-
ANNU 2
Page 2
U.      3IUTCs
Finac.IAccounti  StudL
3.      The consultauts were appointd on April 3, 1979, i.a., 1U months
behind the agreed schodule and works started on April 17, 1979. The study
was completed La Septmber 1980 lnstead of May 1980 as originally stipulated
La the contract. The implementation of th  caosultasts' recommendations
started dcring the course of the study aud was satisfactorily completed Ln
July 1961, i.e.,two years behind the appraisal estimate. At the cousultas'
request, the bank areed to  xtend their contract by two addtiotal
men-months to assure a satisfactory implementation of the study. To ease the
mpl_eustation of the mm accounting system, four (4) posts of Deputy chLef
account officers were created under the consultants' recommedations in 1981
and filled up through Internal promoLon. However, to assure a fULL integra-
dton of the new acconting systm which resulted in creating additional work,
BNITC has b-ee  requesting COB since Septimber 1981 that the ezistin  vacan-
cies 1/ in its accounts department be filled ap to allow It to cope with the
additTonal worko Despite the B3auks missions contiUnuos Insistence for the
hiring of these staff, the GOVs embargo on the recruitment of non-technical
staff 2/ bas still not been raised. ta September 1963, GO3 set up a commt-
tee to review the manning scale of alL publie autonomos bdies, and It is
now understood that G038s embargo would be maintained until a final decision
is made upon the recommndations of thls committee.
Pleet Schedulln Study
4.      BWSC selected in October 1978 the s*me consulting firm retained for
its accounting and finace study.   owever 4 moths later (in February 1979),
the Later modified the cmposition of the tm originally proposed in their
contret. Since the profile of the now members had not been found suitable
for the work and their f ir ha not been able to provide suitabte sub.-
stitutes, BNC selected the secomd lowest proposal and the contract was
signed in October 1979, i.e., 22 months behind the agreed schedule. The
study started in November 1979 and was completed in November 1980, l.o., two
months behind the contctual schedule due to the Illness of a team member,
the complexty of 3ZWC's operations end particularly the inadequacy, and
1/ As of November 1983, vacancies were of 60 positions in BITC's Accounts
Department Including 9 positions for officers and S1 for support staff.
2/ Ta the recent civil servant's classification, accountants are not con-
sidered as technical staff.



-41-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
incompatibility of the data provided by BIUTC. The study was completed 2 1/2
years behLad the appraisal estimate.
S.      At the end of their contract, the consultants indLcated, that their
tasks orlginally budgeted for 68.5 man-weeks took in fact 122 man-weeks of
consultancy time, due to the Lnadequate data provided to them, and requested
extra-funding which the Bank found justified in regards to the excellent
quallty of their work.
6.      Since lt resulted from the conclusions of the study that improvements
in the management of BIWTC's dockyards and the need for an the job training
were the main bottleneck to the efficiency of the vessels' operations, the
Bank agreed In December 1981 to BIUWTCs request to finance under Credit
872-tD a team of technical specialists to advise and work with BIVTC's dock-
yards' managers and staff. To obtain the maximum benefits from the consult-
ants, the Bank sugsested that BIWTC (a) retained the sevice of the same
consultants, since they vere already familiar with its organization (b) drew
up a wotk program, and identify suitable staff to work with the consultants
and (e) speed up the procurement of the prlority needed spare parts for its
vessels and tools to coincide with the arrival of the consultants. However,
because of the latter consulting firm-s inability to provide a suitable team,
5IUTC appointed, In July 1982, the teem of experts provided by the sme
consulting firm retained for the project planning and preparatlFn study. The
work started in September 1982 and was satisfactorily completed in November
1983, including an extension of consultant~s services by five additional
months which was financed from savings generated from the early return of one
team mamber in January 1983, due to health reasons.
ZiI.    BIWA
Cargo Handling Study
7.      After the signing of the contract in January 1979, i.e., 13 months
behind the agreed schedule, the selected consulting firm also tempted to
modify the composition of the team originally proposed in their contract.
But under BVTA's threat of cancelling their contract, they withdrew their
proposal. The study started in February 1979 and was completed in August
1979. Due to difficulties encountered in collecting cargo handling data,
BIUTA and the Bank agreed in July 1979 to the consultants- request to extend
their contract by an dditional one man-month to assure the quality of the
report. Rowever, because of the delay incurred In obtatning the required
equipmt specificatious which were omitted by the consultants in their
report, the implementation phase of this study including procurement of cargo
handling equipment and the related staff training was substantially delayed.
Tnstead of February 1980, this component of the project was completed only in
December 1981, i.e., 22 months behind the appraisal estlmates.



-42-
AN=EX 2
Page 4
AecounLa/PPucane Studs
8.      The coasultants were appointed In November 1978, i.e., 11 mouths
behind the agreed schedule. The study commenced with a aix mouths delay due
to the selected consulting firm's Litentioc to modify the composition of the
team originally proposed. Here also, under BDITA-s threat of cancelLing the
contract, the consulting fim withdrew lts proposal. The study was coopleted
in mid-February L980, I.e., 8 mouths bohind the appraisal estimate, and
included an implemetation period of three months. At BMUTAas request, the
Bank agreed to extend by two additLonal months, i.e., up to aid-April L980,
the implementation period under the consultants' supervislon, to assure a
satisfactory understanding of the whole new accounting system and to allow
the cousultants' to assist B N TA in developing a nw cost accounting system
for its dredging operatioas.
9.      The lmplementation phase continued after the departure of the con-
sultants. Rowever, the full implementation of the new accounting system have
been hampered due to the shortage of suitable staff to process the additi4onl
workload created since the introduction of the new accounting system. As
indicated in para 3, recruituent of new staff has been now frozsen n all
public entities untidl the completion of the manpower assessment committee~s
report.
Telecommunication Study
LO.     Consulting ff.ms were invited to submit their proposals for the
telecommunLcation study only in mid-July 1978, sLice PSI Division faLled to
incLude this component in the published invitations sent out for all the
other studles Lu Novembor 1977. Later on, because of the absence of the
required technicAl manpower in the PST DivisLon to handle the evaluation
procedures of the consulting firms' proposals, the Governomet declded to
transfer, in November 1978, the responsibility for the telecommunication
study to B%Vr!, as originally suggested by the bank during negotiations.
11.     The cost (US$ll9,000) proposed by the selected consulting firm  Ln
April 1979 for the telecom feasibilLty study was well above the original
provision (US$80,00O) allocated under the project for this component.
Howevor, sine a lot of valuable time were already lost, and an early
mplementation of the telecm  subproject was the mai concern, the Bank
agreed in Uay 1979 to enhance the allocation for this study. The consultants
were appointed in August 1979, i.e., 18 mouths behind the agreed schedule,
and the whole telecom-subproject ws excected to be completed in February
L981. iacluding the physibLUty study, the procurement and listallatton of the
recommended equipment and the related staff training to be provided by the
equLpment suppliers.



-43-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.     The first phase of the study 11 (feasibility study) was completed in
February 1980, but it was found that the report didu't Lnclude the assessment
of the private sector's requirements as requested inz the consultants- TOR.
Consequently, the Bank strongLy requested that appropriate arrangements be
made by B1VrA to assure that the consultants cover this Missing component
under the second phase of the first phase of the study. In April 1980, the
team of experts sent to Bangladesh by the consulting firm to carry out the
second part of the first phase of the study did not Lnclude the experts
originally agreed upon under the contract. However, since the new teams was
found well qualified to continue the study, and theLr consultancy services
were only for one month, The Bank and HOC agreed to this last modification,
at BIWTA's request, to avoid further delay in this subpro4ect.
13.     In November 1980, i.e., 18 months behLnd the appralsal estimate the
feasibility study report was satisfactorily completed. However, because of
a) controversies arose by the Telegraph and TeLephone Board (T.T.B.), b) the
continual changes in the beneficiaries requirements (particularly the ones of
Port of Chalna Authority (PCA)) and the resulting multiple modifications to
the specifications and tender documents, c) the delay incurred by the con-
sultants in submitting the specifications requested to accommodate Port of
ChaLna Authority (CPA) re-entry in the project, and d) the suppliers'
incapacLty either to fulfill their contract or to meet the agreed contractual
shipment schedules, the LnstallatLon of the telecommanicatLon equLpment and
the related staff training are still not completed, and this subproject is
already more than 5 years behind the appraisal estimate.
I/ Under the telecommunication subproject, the feasibility study was con-
sidered as the first phase and the procurement, installation of the
equipment as well as the related training was regarded as the second
phase.



- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    -'
-44-
b      T cAmmel  o
nFLAND MAM TUIUSPOUT VROflCT
PRO=U   CUWUTIOK 33103
ACtual and Exected Phnyical CowletCion
Z of TA or Procurment/
Date of Cempletion of Technical Assistance   Istallation Completed by
(T P) or Procuzm.t/lnrtallatigs          tbe Original Cag letion Dete   _emrks
Project
gmmetf                          Actua                              gmted
HOC
&schnical Assistance
Plauningtproject Preparation      Completed in February            April 1979                  0
1981, but report
subitted in April 1981
Prourent of Cargo INadliu
cunigmet
i)  3 mbile cre                August 1981
staff training             December 19U                  Februay 1979                   0
ii)  2 forklifts                Naoveber 1981
staff training             December 1981                 February 198D                  0
ProMant of Sure Part. for
i)  veesels                    December 1983                     Mareb 1979                 46
ii)  Navigatioua aide             ovember 1983                    March 1979                  2
iii)  lSdrogrephic equipmt    December 1983                        March 1979                 37
Radio sets (7) and current
mter (7) for hydro dept   May-June 198                                                                    Procuremnt of the
-                six digital clocke
_e caDcelltd
ecihfic*1 Assistance
i)  Ieinnce/aecounting study   Completed in April 1990
but report submitted in
February 1981                     June 1979                 40                Imple_mtation
ii)  Cargo handling study        Cmpletion in August 1979                                                      period mat extended
but equipment specification                                                   by 2 moths
obtaind in January 1980           June 1979                 95
TOleCCoPiniCgtiOn
Feasibility study                 November 1980                    April 1979                  
Procurent sad installation                                                                                      PU equipment was
of I1 and MY equipmet             SlLC 1984                        April 1979                  0                 dropped frm  the
project
msc
Spare PUrt for
i)  Veasels                     October 1983                      Jue 1979                  40
ii)  Radio sets                 June 190                               -                     -
Procuremet of 6 rodio sets        June 1980
Technical Aesistance
i)  Fleet deploymnt and        Completed i1 November
scheduling study           1980 but report sulmittej
in April 1981                November 197H                   0
ii)  Finance/accnating study   Completed in September 1930                                                     Implemetation
but saport submitted in                                                       period wan extended
January 1981                       may 1979                  1                by 2 =obthe
Procuremsnt]installatioc          April 1983
Training for computer             hovewber :983



-45-
ANNEX 4
Page1
BANGLAD ESN
SECOND INLAID MATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION RORT
List of Major Projects Proposed by COD for
IDA Asaistance under  Wtes Future lI  Prolect
(Taka in Lacs l
Resarks
The first thlrteen (13) projects represent mjor projects recoended by the Project
Plannlyg/Preparation Study. The fourteenth project which Is not Included Ln this List
vas a proposed feasibility study for improvement of Lakhya and bSairab basing which
study was being carsted out under Norad Technical Assistance.
Estia ted
Name of Prolects                     Cost                         Roemrks
L.  Technieal Assistant for             480.00      Under this project a study vill be under-
Improvement of efficiency                       taken for lmproveent of the efficLancy of
In the IUT Sector                               the rlT Sector.  This is a new project and
is reouired to be Licluded ln the S.F.Y.P.
2. Improvement of cargo                 4Z6.00      The obl&ctive of this project is to
handllng system at the                         improve the present loading and unloading
important river ports                          system at the Important river ports such
as Dhaka, Narayangonj and Khulan for
reductLon of loading and unloading time
and for improvement of efficiency. ThLs
is a new project and is required to be
included in the SFYP.
3. Improvement of bagged                679.50      This project envisages improvement of
cocaodity handling system                       unloading of bagged commodity at the
Important river ports providing conveyor
belts. The system vill be designed tc
accommoate outgoing bags for loading.
This is a new project and is required
to be Included In the SFTYP.



-46-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
4. Provision for handling of         1,018.00      Containerized cargoes are arrivLag at
coatalnerixed cargo at                         the maritLee ports and it Ls lkely to
Liportant river ports                         iLncrease i  the coming years. Under
this project, faclltLes will be provided
for handling of coutalnerixed cargoes at
the important river ports. This Ls a
cow project and is required to be
included ia the S!FP.
5. Replaceomt and rehabilitation  5,046.00         ThLs project envisages replacemet of
of IUYTC fleet (replacment of                  7 sos. coasters by self-propeLled bares
7 nos. coasters by self-                      and rceplment of 6 sos. oll tankers by
propelld bares and replace-                    seLf-propelled *il barges. This project
aest of 6 nos. SIl tankers by                  Ls Iscluded ia the SPYP. A portion of
self-propolled)                                this project is under implementation.
6. Improvemet of food grain            L94.70      Under this project a floating storag
baudthg sys te                                 and proeassins facilities will be provided
at a suitable loction for quick unloading
of food grain vessels. Such facilities
will b- provided by converting a big vessel
into fl"tiug storage. Food grain will be
loaded on coasters/barges from thLx storage
for up land movement. Thls is a  o
project and is required to be included Ln
the SPTP.
Under this project a Master plan for future
7. Master plan for development         300.00      devlopmnt of Dhalla port wllI be propared
of Dbaka ports                                 and facliLties wSLL be provided. This is
a new project and is requlred to be
included in the STP.
8. Studr of ank erosion                20000      This project envisges technical and
problems at Barisal                            bhydrographic study to identify the Bank
erosion problem. at Barisl and to
recommend remedial measures. This project
is included ia the STYP and study is going
on under ORAD assLstance.
9. Technical, economic and             150.00      Techlecal, econoodc and bydrography study
hydrography study for                         of the inland watermys will be carried
impo e t of Inland                            out for preparation of a Master plan for
waterwAys                                      dredging for improvesw.c of navigable
waterways. This is a  w project aud is
required to be included In the Sm!?.



-47-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
LO.  Provislin fet development         5,000.00     There is a project for development of
of rural Launch landing                        S0 launch landing statlons.  Under this
stations                                       project 150 more launch landing statlons
in the rural areas vill be developed.
This project is required to be lncluded
in the SFYP.
It.  Study for improvement of              -        Under thIs project a study wll be made
deslgns of jettles                              to find out the most suLtable desLgns
of jetties provlded at the river
ports/rural launch landing stations at
least cost. This is a new project and is
is required to be Included ln the SFYP.
12.  Feasibility study for               150.00      Under thls project feasibility study
improvoent of vaterways of                    vill be undertaken for development of
North-Vest area of Bangladesh                  vaterways ln the North-Vest area of
(Jamuna and Atral rivers from                  Bangladesh.  Thls Is a new project and
J&waLgpnj/Joypurhat to                         is requlred to be Licluded Ln the SYPY.
Baghabarl).
13.  Construction of 10 nos.             100.00     This is a pilot project for construction
Ferro-Cement country boats                     of structures for pontoons and country
and 10 nos. Ferro-Cesent                       boats. This project is Lequired to be
Pontoons.                                      Included in the SFYP.
14. Dredging of navigable                700.00     Navigable channels will be dredged for
channels of Bangladesh.                        improvement of draft. This project is
required to be included in the SFYP.
15.  Re-excavation of 12 nos.            300.00     This is a rural oriented project and is
deteriorated river routes                      required to be included in the SFYP.
used by country boats.
16.  Development of 10 nos.              500.00     Existing pontoous at these places are
Class I. river ports at                        too inadequate.  Port facilities are
Bagharhat, Nadaripur,                          required to be developed to meet the
Jhalakati, Munshigonj, Chatak,                  increasing demand.  This project is
Barguna, Kaukhali, Antall,                     required to be included in the SFYP.
Bandura and Rangamati.
17.  Mechanization of 500 nos.           300.00     A pilct project for mechanization of
country boats.                                 country beats was completed.  This is
the second phase of the project to
popularize mechanization of country
boats. This project is required to
be included in the SFm?.



-48-
Page 4
1a. Poecuremt of 7 nos.                200.00      Nydrographic survey Is a chartered
bydrographic suvey vessela                    function of BIUTA. Most of the suwvy
under crash programe.                        vassels of the authority are old and
delapidatad. So procurment of surxey
vessels Ls urgtly required. This projec
is required to be Lacltuded n the Sm.
19. Procurment of 5 nos. dredgers    700.00        Dredging wvoks have Licreased tremendously
and essential aicLlary caft                   and Ls likely to increase sore La the
equipmt etce. for Increasing                  coaing years. To cope with the ILcreasing
the efficiency and capaclty of               needs, S nos. dredgers ad some anclllary
existeng dredgers of BUZTA.                   craft, equLpmen are required. This
project Ls required to be lncluded Lu the
Sr".
Z0. Study for Laprovement of           100.00      This technical asslstne  is requLred.
Chittagoug - Candrapur route.                 ThLs project Ls to be Lncluded in the SmT?.
Total:  ac  16.54-3 2  lacs



-49-                             ANNE-  5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND rLAIND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESE INLAND WATER TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
Actual and Future Requirements for Cargo Randling Epuipment
No. of      No. of       No. of
Mob      Fork Lift    4-Wheel    Amount
Cranes      Trucks     Trolley.      USS
PORTS:
Dhaka         Mill Barracks              1                              140,000
Bandautali Jetty          1                              140,000
Narasyanganj    hanpur                   2                              280.000
Khanpur                               1                   20,000
Mnhapur                                            30     20,000
Khulna        Quay Wall                  1                              140,000
Mahesvarpasha
Estimated Minimum                        5           1           30    740.000
Estizated Additional Equipment
a.  4-vheel trolleys at
Mill Barracks                                                20
b.  Machines for Charargop Khal
providing dredging                  1            1
c.  Mobile cranes for construction
of RCC jetty
d.  Machines if dredging at Quay
Wall                                1             1
e.  Machines if bagged comodities
to be handled instead of bulk-
grain by evacuacor.                 2                        50
Estimated Maximum                      11             3         100



-50-
ANN=X 5
Page 2
As shown, the estimted minumm needs refer to the present situation
includLng full operation at Kbanpur. The estimted maximum numb.- of
machires represe1ts the global medium-tmrm investment requiLrsents. The
phasing for the acquisition of these machines would depend upon the
Authority's own priority. At the pilot part Lt is recomended to
establish a central repair and workshop. Ta equip the proposed
repair/wozrshop may preferably be equlpped with the foLlowing machines
were recommended:
o  One owerhead crane, lifting capacity 3 toues
o One latziu, 5aeter 0.5 a, length 1.5 m
o One shaping machlne
One workbench with two vices
o One colum drilling machine, dirater 20 -
o One steel plate cutting machine (manual)
 Electeic welding equipment
 Oxygen welding equipmet
oOne g~rindiug machine
o ne hacksaw
o Ona ai_ coeressor
o Niscellantous hand tools
o  Stores equipmnt
Based on indicative prices for machines Listed above including
foundations and installation, the cost of establishing a repair-wov@shop
was *stmated to about US$120,000 (1979 price). Cost of building is not
included.



-51-
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESU
SECOND INLARD WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Modifications made to the Consultants Recomendations for the
Telecommunication Cowmonent
1.      Following the results of their feasibility study, the consultants
recommended in February 1980 for BIWT*, BIWTC and the private sector 108 sets
of EF equipment of which 15 sets for each central station were to be fitted
with 400 wvtts and the remaining with 100 watts reducible to 60 watts. Out
of the 108 sets, only 10 sets vere for the private sector. For Chittagong
Port Authority, and Port of Chalna Authority the consultants recommended the
following sets:
For Chittazoni Port Authority
F  - 1 (one) set
For Port of Chalna Authority
VHF - a)   6 sets of 5C watts, 2 each at Ihulna, Mongla and
Hiroupoint.
b)   8 sets of 25 watts for 8 ships.
c) 10 portable sets of 10 watts.
d) 20 nos. of handheld sets of 2 watts.
11 - 1 set of 500 vatts for Hironpoint.
2.      However in July 1980, TAT Board 1J raised some objections in regard
to the quantity of the above proposed sets on the basis that: (a) 108 nos.
of EF sets were too many and were causing duplication; and (b) the proposed
VHF statiou at Rhulua for Port of Chalna Authority (PCA) was a duplication to
the VHF station of T&T Board at Ehulna. Consequently, the number of EF sets
was reduced to 69, and PCA's VHF station at Khulna was dropped from the
11 Telephone aud Telegraph Board.



-52-
ANNEX 6
Page 2
project. Procurement o' the 10 nos. HF sets for the private sector was also
dropped from the project, since TUT3 Ludicated that the private sector had to
be catered by it.  WLth the dropping of BSC and BTTG from the project, the
number of workshops and sets of testing equipments and tools were all reduced
to four (4), i.e., one for each of the remaining four bensficiary agencies.
3.      raking into account those modifications, tenders were accordingly
astablished in July 1980, and approved in S-eptmber L980 by the subcommittee
fomed to review the specifications. The tenders included the folloving
components:
RF: BST                        - 33 sets
BXZTC                      - 33 sets
Chittagong Port Authority -  I set
Port of Chalna Authority  -  2 sets
TotaL    69 sets for 69 stations
HF: Port of Chalna Authority  -  I set (1 tsansmitter plus I
receiver).
VHF: Port of Chalna Authority  - a) SO watts for 2 coast stations -  4 SetS
b) 25 watts for 8 ship stations  -  8 sets
c) 10 vatts portable sets         -  5 sets
d)  2 watts hendheld sets         - 15 sets
Total                                  I eaots
4.      However in October 1980, VHF radio equipments for Port of Chalna
Authority at Khulna, which was excluded from the tender documents at Tr3's
request, bed to be included again in the tender documents since TTB finally
agreed to provide the required suitable frequency channels. The resulting
revision to the tender documents by the consultants took four mouths and was
completed in February 1981. When tenders were about to be floated In April
t981, TTrE representatives who were previously called upou by BZUTA to decide
on equipsmet specifications, objected that R' equipment with 400 watts power
output (para 1) would create interference with the stations of the neighbor'
Lug countries. Consequently they insisted on having a maximum pover output
of 100 watts for all the sets and recommended, for economical reasons, only 5
central stations (4 with distress services and one without distress service),
instead of 15 central stations as initially recomenaded by the consultants
(para L).
5.      Following a number of meetings with the TTB, it was finalLy decided
to procure 69 sets with 100 watts. In February 1982, the tender dcuments
and specifications were revised to include the last modifications in regard
to the  umber of sta tios, and HF power output. However :TTs agraeemnt to



-53-
ANNEX 6
Page 3
the implementation of the telecomunication netvork was conditioned to the
payment of a royalty fee vhich the beneficiaries found extremely high and
unreasonable. While this last issue was being settled, tenders were floated
in March 1982, evaluated in June 1982 and approved by MOC in July 1982, wich
TTBs agreeat.  Further lengthy negotiatious with the interested contrac-
tors, in regards to the costs and equipment delivery time, added further
delay to the implementation of this subproject. It vas only in December
1982, that separate contracts (including local and abroad training programs)
vere signed for each of the three (3) types of telecomsunication equipments
(EF, VHF and MF).



ncon  hun   uu. IuIIOIT  1'0,11C.
PIOICTCCNL8goUN IT01
Asaauisal. bd Act Al IattmAtas of _roimet COtSI
(Millions)
Irolacta Cosnoseuta                                  Ann     lEstimateO                                                                                     Act.ua  C.st
Otbut                                                                                                               bo
Qi *                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ece4m
foreign ots
Local Cost   roreeso  Lool    Cost    Total                                                     Local Costs          Local   1ariagn    Cost    Total
UL         gaJlL-  -lL.    m~I.    Ml.                                                Mg8 TAME. and Duzisa)       Jjjs      us$     mj         us$
mg
PlsoOioI?rn,att Preparation                0.060    0.10      -      0.010     0.22           Ptlan ..  I  to  ert Prpsiation             -                   _      0.2         _      0.202
aImS                                                                                         Ui'SA
Codlina *uie_A.                                                                                  .  Crsa Elqim aumast
Al  Tbtce mebile crane.                  0.200    n.00        -       -       0. Soo             Al - 3 mbil. mcbatsoics
A2 - Cscr  hadisa                                                                                      diesel srands                  0.243                         0.327       -      0.172
Cctilittla and                                                                              Al - lorklift .                                     g0i.02                    L-01
materalI                            0.UO0     O.        -        - MO  .                         Subtatal                        0.262                 -       0.349      _       0.b11
SubIotal                            0.0e    1.100       -        -        .e00
*. s^gI PuJuUJuor
It - wals                           0.239                  -      0.20        -      0.490
SI - Veesels                             0.30    o.30o       -        -       0.600
52 -  ayiationt l aids                   0 100    0 100      -        .       0.200              52 -  el.gational aide               0.427                 -       0.291       _      0.133
11 - 3ldcosacphttc s*4r,y                  9       0a                         Q                  81 - iydeIta,htc curvey              0.170                         0.2619     -       0.539
Subtotal                            0.i0     0-.10      -       -        1.
C. I adio saets and I Cevtz*t
C. Tbouel Asistancr                                                                                 stCct  eta  hydi ph  dcpt            o.flM. e               -                         Lift
Subtotal                          O0.917                  -      0. Oe4      -      I .9ili
Cl - Cargo handlla study                           0.100   0.010      -       0.240                                                                                   S
C2 - riraaeoaccountiag                                                                       i.  Teahnical Aaala"'U
study                                 :..    Lii
Subcotal                                     0.170   0.070               ".2               Cl - Cego bhadlics  study                                 0.010    0.061       -      0.019
Cl - Vizaaa/ ecaoutig study            -                 0.037    0.0"1       -      0.108
D. I     _nuui =UU                                                                                  C  - 2 eas tr the resaltants            Ot                H-                   -      0.017
subtotal                       0.01                 UI0  rnV -                     W
D2 -Telecm  - physhbility study            -       0.03 0                     0.03 )
D2 - YE equipment)                                                                            . elgonisog
01 - h7 equip_Zt)                        0.421    0.300               .       0.720
04 - NV  quipent)                                                                                Dl - Tlelom  - pbyetbility atady   0.007 1                       0.119               0.126
subtotal                            0.420    0.3lD              _            O.eOO         02 * TN  qipmet                         -          -                 - O            eceslIed
03 - myT equipast                    0.045               0.001    0.019       -      0.0
* Ivic                                                                                              04 - it eqnipmuet                     LiELi                          ii                 ii
Subtotal                       0.3                   .010    0 a4               0. M7
A. gouismamt. mterial sad
SALrse Lr  alee                          1.000  1.100   -             -       2. SO
8. lAthaie I Assistance ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~ ~ ~ A Bsi nil fr saal
8. SeehnluALeiatLaee                                                                                8d~l~2S1. *.454                                         C.122    1.74        -       3.324
It - Fleet daploymat NWd                                                                     .Tchnical Aeis'taas
aebhduting study                      -      0.090   0.030      -        0.20                    Fleet dplymet s
82 - VIn.ec/eecumtina study                *         fl 9    ,0       -                                ebioeliag study                                    0.022    0.246              0._10
Subtotal                              -      0.12    0.00       _        0.260lb
82  Vinameo eoeomtimstudy -r          |OU0.04                   0.071       -      0.121
133   Car for the comaaltamra        t5fLh                LEI.                       LII
Total Price Ccatlagescio                                                                        lubtatal                        0.JOC  0                             5
C. Camut'r Zaui t
Oread Total                         LAM  0L1          L 02 LII0          Ld                Cl - Equipment end ititallatios
C aS                           0.049                  _      0.09               0.147
el - Tr&ainig for compacte             -                             7-      --         I
subtoatl                                    " 0Lgn
Subt*otal                      5000.049                      0.098       -      0.256
Grand Total                    3.019                0.316    4.03D       -      7.493



- 55 -
ANNEX 8
BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT GOHPLETION REPORT
Estimated and Actual Disbursement Schedule
(USS Million)
Actual Disburse-     Actual Disburse-
Appraisal  New Estimates  Actual         ment as 2 of          ment as 2 of new
FY1978            Estimates  in Feb. 1979   Disbursement  Apuraisal Estimai:es  Estimates in Feb. 1979
March 31, 1978       0.4           _
June 30, 1978        1.1           -
FY1979
September 30, 1978   2.2           -               _                _
December 31, 1978    3.1          0.1            0.1                 3                   100
March 31, 1979       4.0          0.5             0.6               15                   120
June 30, 1979        4.6          1.2            0.8                 17                   67
FY1980
September 30, 1979   5.0          2.2            0.9                18                    40
December 31, 1979                 3.2             1.0               -                     31
March 31. 1980                    4.2             1.1               -                     26
June 30, 1980                     5.0             1.4               -                     28
111981
September 30, 1980                                1.6               -                     -
December 31, 1980                                 1.7               -                     -
March 31, 1981                                    1.8               -                     -
June 30, 1981                                     1.8                 
FY1982
September 30, 1981                                2.1               -                     -
December 31, 1981                                 2.4               -                     -
March 31, 1982                                    2.4               -                     -
June 30, 1982                                     2.9               -                     -
FY1983
September 30, 1982                                2.9               -                     -
December 31, 1982                                3.0                 - _
March 31, 1983                                    3.2               -                     -
June 30, 1983                                     3.8               -                     -
FY1984
September 31, 1983                               4.0                _                     _
December 31, 1983                                4.2                _                     _
March 31, 1984                                    4.2               _                     _
April 30, 1984                                   4.4                -                     -
Closing Date          6/30/80 1/                %I 5/m
J  From April 1978 to May 1983, the disbursement was rescheduled by about 10 times.  The
closing date was extended 3 times respectively to June 30, 1981, then to December 31,
1982 and the later to August 15, 1983. However, after this date, disbursement was
was allowed to continue up to February 1984 to accommodate the completion of the
telecon subproject.



-56-
ANNEX 9
RANGLADESE
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESR InLAND WATER TRANSPORT CORPORATION
Details of BIVTC's Outstanding Loans as of 6/30/82 and 6130183
Taka
Amount    Amount       Rate of
Particulars                   6/30/82    6130/83      Interest
Audited   Provisional
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank         201,360        -         7.502
Shilpa Rin Sangatha         14,089,492    14,089,492   7.502
KPF.W. West Germany        128,901,901   128,901,901   0.752
Dutch Credit                15,106,065    15,106,065   2.50
IDA Credit 345-BD            7,776,990      7,776,990   0.75%
IDA Credit 242-BD           20,308,040    20,308,040   0.752
IDA Credit 735-BD           24,812,873    38,998,225   0.752
Belgium Loan                32,364,486    32,364,486    N/I
Danish Loan                 72.987.824    75.076.829    N/A
Subtotal                316,549,031   332,622,028
Loan from Goverument
1972-75                          -              -       6.25%
1975-76                    111,493,000   111,493,000       9%)
1976-77                     13,400,000    13,400,000        9%) Repayment
1979-80                        669,002        669,002      92) over 20 years
1980-81                     23,655,000    23,655,000       9:) after 5 years
1980-81                     21,245,000    21,245,000  11.50%) grace period.
1981-82                     76,696,000    76,696,000  11.50%)
1982-83                                    34.917.000  11.502)
247,188,002   282,105,002
Loans from Directors         3,063,359      3,063,359
Grand Total             566,800,392   617,790,389



-57- _ANNEX 10
BDANLADESR
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PRIJECT
PROJBCT COMPLKTIoN REPORT
BANDESH INLAD WATER TRANSPORT CORPORATION
Teka
Actual Income Statements fr., 1976-77 to 1982-83
Particulars                 1970-77         1977-78         197h79          1979-80        198D81          19b1-82        1982-83
(Audited)      (Audited)       (Audited)       (Audited)      (Audited)        (Audited)   (Provisional)
EARNINGS:
Traffic Earnings               Il.08,56.533   15.19,78.721   18,53,17,474   24.12.31,414   25.68,71,305   26.36.33.027   26,09.b8,163
Charter Ithre                   1,51.88,010       70,79.836       54.j8,252       53.10,748       66,59,827       75.48.787      40,26,127
MISc. Inca.e                      75.25.777       23.34.283       19.22.311       17.65,054       48.92 177       67 91 992      96 06 475
13.35.70.320   16.33,92.840   19.26,98,037   24.83.07.216   26.86.'3.309   25.79.73.806   27.6.0.7
EXPENDITURE:
Direct Fleet Expenses           9,25,41,580   I0,28,47,475   12,73.05,792   16,84,15.703   21,61,35,781   20,41,76,208   22,07,71,570
Traffic Operation Exp.             70.86,121      83,12,509       96,39,386       88,16,6b5    1.09,09,770        79,65,u30      62,40,779
Shore Establishuent Exp.        1,03.30,904    1,28,56,690    1,b6.86.091    2,06,76,661    2,41,45,538    2.32,90.429    2,21,85,417
Shore Conttngencies               44,02,888       52,10.948       63,48,257       71,27,967    1,29,45.538    1.13,91.171        85,2b,421
Bad Debts Provision                  -               -               -            54,51,900       63,00,000       b3,10,000      63,98,182
Interest on Loan                  86,22,300    1.25,98,475    1.46,10,262    1,53,69,205    1,52,53,435    1.59,39,712    1,65.38,306
Depreclatton                    2.34.25,587    2.33,80,022    2.31.96.680    2,27,96.364    2.43.84,316    2.86.95,002    3.33.63.235
14 64 09 380   16 52 06 119   19 77 86 463   24 86 84 465   31 00 80 345   29 77 69 552   31 .46.23.910
Met Lose for the year           I 213 NUWU        15.K13.9       '350f88426        3,77,249    4,14.57:036    3.97.95,7Z6    400,23, 145
Lose brbught forvard from
the previous year              9.90,49,176   10.11,78.501    1,74,44,787    2.29,.6.980    1.83.12,096    4.77,73,460    8,90.29,771
(Net Profit) Loss A/c
ULTS OperatJon                    4,14,941         (52,157)                 -                       -              -               -
Adjustment in respect of
previous year                 (1.11.24.676)  (8.54.94.836)   3193.767           (49,92.133)  (1,19,95.672)        14,60,565      1.33.543
Loss balance transferred to
Balance Sheet                 It,11,78,501    1.76,64.787    2.29,26.980    1,83,12,096    4,77,73,4bO         8,90,29,771  12,91,86,459
_4



- 58 -
ANNE 11
IINGLADZES
SZCOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT CONPLETIOI RPORT
BANGLADESH INLAND VATER TRANSPORT CORPORAlTION
ADpaaisal Estimates of Profit and Loss Account for F71977/78 to F71980-81
1977/78          1978/79           1979180          1980/81
Earnints
Traffic earnings                 12,10,00,000      14,00,00,000      16,20,00,000      18,70,00,000
Charter hire                           (a)              (a)               (a)               (a)
Miscellaneous earnings               50,00,000        50,00.000         50,00,000         50,00.000
Required tariff increase lJ       1.20,00.000       1 40.W00000       1.60.00.000       1 90.00.000
Total Income                13,80,00,000      15,90,00,000      18,30,00,000      21,10,00,000
Expenditures 2J
Direct fleet expenses            10,20,00,000      11,40,00,000      12,80,00,000      14,40,00,000
Traffic operating expenses          60,00,000         70,00,000         80,00,000         90,00,000
Shore establishment               1,30,00,000       1,40,00,000       1,60,00,000       1,70,00,000
Shore contingencies                 50,00,000         60,00,000         70,00,000         80,00,000
Interest on loans                 3,20,00,000       3,40,00,000       3,60,00,000       3,80,00,000
Depreciation                      2.20.00.000       2.40.00.000       2.60 0000         280.00.000
18,00,00,000     19,90,00,000      22,10,00,000      24,40,00,000
Net profit/(loss) _J             (4,20,00,000)    (4,00,00,000)    (3,80,00,000)    (3,30,00,000)
a) Included in traffic earnings.
Based on a 1OZ annual increase in rates and fares from 1977178 onvards; traffic volume has
been assumed to increase at 52 p.a. from the 1976177 base year mission estimate.
21 The mission estimate of future expenditure is largely based on judgment. The budget estimate
for 1976/77 seems unrealistically low because operating expenses are shown at a much lover
level than iu the previous year vhile the estimate for interest and depreciation is Taka 17
million higher than in the previous year. Mission estimates of 1976177 operating expenses
are at about the same levei as for 1975/76 and for future years it has been assumed that
operating expenses will be 502 variable vith volum and provision has been made for annual
price increases of 102; a modest increase in interest and depreciation charges has been
allowed for possible increases in borrowing and investment.
3   The forecast losscs are considered to be the best estimates which can be made in the absence
of more realistic information. They have been drawn up to indicate some order of magnitude
in the tariff increases required which have been restricted to 10Z annually. If the Govermsent
loans should be converted into equity the forecasts would look more favorable because the
interest charges would be reduced.
Souoce: BIUTC and IDL Staff



- 59 -
Anlll 12
SW OJCIID lNllUNSP URPOTWT
AIOLADSB XINLAID 1VAT8 TUIS        CORP0UUO"
Actual Fund now Statements from 1976-77 to 1982-83
Taign ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ tviiw
1976-77      1977-78      1978-79       19 9-80      1980-01      1981-82      1902-83
A. SBorces of Fund.
Gross operating income     (1.28.39.060)   (18.13,279)  (50,88,426)   (3.77,249) (4,14.57.036) (3,97.95,746) (4,00.23,145)
Depreciation                2,34,28.367   2,33,82.596   2,32,23.411   2,27,98.574  2.46,20,669  2.87,15,720   3,38,35.775
Disposal of aasets          2,52.80.988    64.04,559    68,99,695   1.56.95.089    26.14,666    49,62.591     97,44,043
Total Internal Carb Ceneration   3.587Q.Z95  2.Z9.73.876   2.50.34.680  3.811j.J414  (1.42.21.701)               35j7.U52   2.i56.673
Decrease or (increase)
of Working capital         (2.22,70,735)  1.93,08.164  (2,08.24,358) (3.53.58.119) (6,49,34,350)(11,79,36,129) 4.23.87,092
xtiernal Finauci t
Coverment loans             1,34.00.000       -            -             _       4.55,99.002  7,66,96.000   3.49,17,000
Governmt graots                  -            -            -             -       7,17,40,701  17,10,40.068
Loccl                            -            -            -             -            -            -
Foreign                       28.2.169     10.68.550     83.54.052   1.29.19987  4.87.83.69   6.02.92.341   1.60.72.997
Subtotal:                1,62,82,169    10,68,550     83,54.052   1,29,19.987  16,61.23,399  30.80.28.409  5.09.89,997
Total Sources of Fld.         98.81.729       .26                   1.56 .78.2    8.69.67.348  182.39.4.845   9.69.33.762
S. Anulication Futd.
Cspital expeuditure
(including interest
during coastruction)       2,29,56.362   4.34,89.600   1.02,63.952    59.42.980   8.46.29.561  17.8809,850   9.69.33.762
Interest on Debts             22.70.993    19.91,054     9,04.143    24.10.710      7,65.399    15.61.861
PZaent of Principal.
Local                            -            -            -             -            -            -
Foreign                       46.54.374    28.69.936     13.96.379    43.24,592    15.72.388    36.03.134
-ort-term                        -            -             _            _            _            _
Dividend                         -            -            -             -            -            -
Total Application           2 .8..8350 .594 1,25.64.374  1.56 .78.282  8.69.67.34U 18.39.74.U5   9.69.33.762



60 -
l13
=scoC CwO gns TIPEUFoT Ro REPOR
RUWCLDIN DUN  UA7UR TRANSPORTS CORo3ATONo
Actual Balance Sheets trom 1976-77 to 1982-83
Capital a*d Liabilities           1976-1977     1977-197S      197S-1979      1979-1980     1980-1981     1981-1982      1982-1983
(AudiMted)    QAgdfed)       (AuLL_4ie)    (4uldit")      jAyoi%t-4)    (Adlitcd)   (P-Mio1900
Capital                          5.00,00.000  45.10,00.000  45.00.00.000  45,00,00,000  45.00.00.000  45.00.00,WU   45.00,00.000
Paid-u Capital
Ceontribution from Covt.           99.92,500  23,29.79.500  23.29.79,500  23,29,79,500  23.29.79.500  23,29,79,500  23.29.79.500
Capital fund of the Saito        5,23.5.411   5.23.85.411   5,23.85.411   5.17.22,111   5,17.22,111   5.17,22,111   5.17.22.111
Reserve and Syrolmv
Capital reserve                  2.93.83.926     23.08.906      28.93.916     56.24,122      98.53.107   1.23,89,107   1.85.83.552
General reserve                   1,S3,234       3,38,951       3.38.951      3,3S.951       3.38.951      3.38.951       3,38,951
Reserve for donated vessels      5.16,09.208      6.82.019       6,82,019      6,82.019   7.24,22,720  24.34,62,788  24,34,62,788
Reserve for spares                 61.33.731      _L.60.378     31M60t        66.71.272      69.29.779     69.29.779      69.29.779
8.88.10,099     34,90.254      71,03,495   1,63,16,364   R,95,44,557  26.31,21,075  26,93,15,070
Loan                            54,98,40,193  32.50,51,807  33.20.09.480  34,06.04,875  43.34.15.185  5b,68.00,392  61.77,90.389
5S debenture stock                 35.95,320     35.95 120      11.98,440        -                            - -            -
Net Liabilities in Pakistan        29.51.081     29.5i.091      29.51.081     29,51.0U1      29.51.081     29.09.985      29,09.985
Deferred liabilities               13.38.951         -             --                           -             - 
Current Liabilitics
Accrued interest                 2,82.91.257   4.11.43.412   5.48.12,293   6,67.62.601   6.S8.44.172   6.36.87.250   9.30.94.930
For expensem                     2.71 37 868   3.18 76 654   3 77 037201                           5     6.1 44 0410   659O
1.24,34.129  91.80:62720 4.86.j6:121                                      9 *   6.j
For capital exp~enses            1:2473.661279                                24, 8089         * 2,.6..7    ,,24. *9       -,
For otber finance                1,75.17.851   1.66,8.,641   1.80.99.165   1,91,45.157   1,0.9b.780   1.32.34.782   1.40,33,464
For deposit and advances           20.74.320     26.52.714      35.01.141   _4.16.373        62 80         77.13A482      9411.000
8.74.55.455  10.35.01.645  12.16.82.593  13.98,17.041  14,45,35.170  14,68.87.763  18.25,39.297
79.63.69.010  7.39 .55.018  '5.03.10.000  78,43.90.9ii 95.51.47.604 '26.41.20.8b 135.72.562.35
Fixed Asset
At cast                         58.05.26.868  61,73.92.090  62.22.76.044  62,51.44.960  72,07.11.328  69.68.15,622  98.69,28.721
Less: Accunulated
Depreciation             13.82.72.394  16.05.55 920  18.35.72.391  20.12.38.018  22.51.61.597  25.337.702  282 .36.405
44.22.54.474  45.68,36,170  43.87.03,653  42.39,06.*42  49.55.49.731  64.32.77.920  70.26,92.316
Capital work
in progress                  4.24.06.225   2,08,83,542   2.19.54.584   2,12.33,939   8.63.06,085  17,54,04.128  14.16,;0.429
Investment                            45,050        45.050         45.050        45.050         45,050        45.050         45.050
Current Assets
Stock and Stores                11,21.15.246  12,17,80,445  14.32,84,070  15,54.61,032  16,50.53.568  18,17.37.308  19,74.45.462
Suadry Debtora                   5.85,88.804   7,80.1,959   9,43.66.107  10.'5.37,340  11.97,16.382  11.98.89,785  14.29,51,398
Advancr deposit and
pre-pa7ments                    33,92,009     50,71,751      55,78.925   1,89.73.167   1,47.28.928   1,31,89,815       97,45.133
Cash and Bank Balances           3,63,88,701   2,38,11,314   2,34.50,631   3,17.65.807   2.35,64.439   4,02.20.121   3.27.51.641
Consultancy service               -----                                       21.55.599      24.0S.961 16.26.928           8MS..464
21.04,84.760  22,87.45.469  26.66.79,733  32.08,92.945  32,54.73.273  35.66.63.957  38.37.02.098
CmmmIlstive loses               10.11.78.501   1.74,44.787   2.29,26,980   1.83,12,096   4,77,73.460   8.90.29.771  12,91.86.459
79.63.69.011  72.39 ,5:10  75,0310,000  78.43.90.972  95.51.47.604 126.44.20.826 135.72.56:352



-61 -                                                        UIIZX 14
*OS  INLAID WATER uADUTPROr
noom= wrrow su
4WD Mu  IRIN WUTE TE ESPOT AWfl1
Actal Tear-Vise rncme & RxnandiUre fros 1976-7 to 1982-83
Take
I  197J -7 I 1977-73  I 1978-79  1 1979-S0   I 19I   1   1981-82    1 19S2-83
Govermt OreaL                                   13,315.000  13.315.000  13,315.000   15,815.000   13.315.000   21.315.000   26.315,000
Port Earnins                                    21.157,854  14.142.912  16.411.000  23,030.577   26.797.617   25.515.090  34.715.960
grudger Revenue                                 30,153,400  26.336,600  24,971.980  40,547.200   43.053.625   73.198.200  53.526.820
Cal Tool.                                        4.437.384   1.730.265  2.834.930   4.493.990    2.851.735   4.622.916    1.636.726
ciServOty & Pilotage 1.s                        12.853.521   1.724.857  3.733.123   4.220.b33    4.706.842   5.631.546    7.154.817
Salvage Charge.                                  1,325.467      95.542     205.590       -          378.330      4b5.613     436,587
Cbhrter of Teaun                                     -          72.379    147,000      396.124      576,810      742.313     240.435
lust Receipt (Office Suilding)                       -           -           -           -           75,700      104.840   4,947,086
Other Cursing                                  7J810.399  3.124460  7.518.087  5.049.ZU   10.154.447   10J4L 18M         1.0Lf6AI
91,058.025  60.548.023  69.156.710   93,55Z,812  101,910,106  142.247.4   139.259.374
Pxv"itere
Islariea and bmefita                            12.964,124  21,494.290  25.506,391   31.451.082   30484,.135   31.328.487  38,025.736
"et, Rates & IMaicipal Tax                       2.369.015   1,691.455   1.133,675   2,092.102    4.432.085    1,793.934    1.733.172
ulectridty 6 Cea                                   124,154    157.737    272.312       293U743      550.187      737.889     949.583
PrLDtiU   & Stationery                             703,443     705,219    785.990      767.085      763.713   1.015.585   1,170,579
Postage, Telepbone                                 649,452     569.065    485.074      549,205      544.357      704.818     855.038
Advert itmant.                                      67,315      70,370      79.107     102.838       78,317      110.735     108,005
Fel 4 Lubricant.:-
Dredger                                          6.ll8,511   7.402,361   6,343,465    8.352.325   18,792,936   21,324.264  21.590,907
Vanel.                                           2.668.424   3.752.625   3,785.895   4.893.617    6,474.697    7.557,927   9.530,832
Wabicles                                           353.249    454.049    39.9180       704.243    1,112,139      753,812   1.469.520
Deer chain                                        449,909     479,126    485,233      873,208    1,272,s57    1,262,421    1,527,385
others                                               1,180       2.262       -           -            -           -            3.941
Repra 4 USiuteaace:-
Dredger                                          1,199.037   1,757.300  3,194,757    3,00,4618    3,538,956    8.418.403   13.930,630
vessels                                          2.710.607   3.453,269  3,940.915   5,200,288    4,203,825   3,495.508   3,227,049
Wahiclee                                           402,324    402,203    462,666       507,969      611,338    1,398,938     502.741
Detes chaIn                                         23,114      22.177      52,043       -           39.620       -           4,44
Potoos                                           1,097,428   1,099,682     557,186       -          814,690       -        3.041.915
Swildints                                        2,818.514   1.235.120   1,874.664   1,191,966      974,7u3   2.183.149    2,663,764
jetties                                          1.948.935   1.555.307   3,041.973   3,042.985    2.024.399   3.215.082   3,017,578
River Banks                                        842.430     425.s86   1,314.171    1,015.852     164.462    1.628.49     303.29
Oher                                               335,078     605.531     382,306   1.551,366      238,293    1.460,963     435,532
River Haistenaoe (Dredging)                     83095,809   7.232g943   7.041.423   9,574,211    7.o00985  15,000.000   21.456,436
Conehble storea                                    239,911     613.148    471.895      588,963      879,285   1.749,036      469,359
Conueecsy Geara                                    665.368   1.303.085   1.320.910   3,914,068   2,031,583   4.070.419   2.296.132
Duty * Taes                                     21.005.000       -          -          153.201        -       6.038.336   1.000.000
Insurance                                          165.211   2.113,056   1,974,930     258.285    2,265.087    2,230,029     274,105
Depreciation                                    21,056.430       -       3,333,963  23.361,970  20.406.348   24,352,951  22.500.000
bSena for Bud debt                               1,466,950       -         160,182     330.505        -          44.74         -
Other expenditure                                1.172.172   1.521.267   1.621.136   1.582.195  _5016.6flj,   10.139.2     2.7338421
9L1713Z 094 60L119h033 70.527.126  105J57.910  114.716.005  15z.24L1A.s   L54MZ77Z636
Ecess of Incme over
Expenditure surplus (deficit)                     65L5f069)    4.2S990  (1.370.416) .W..105.0) (12Q805Z84  ) (10.171.193) 11.561L.
Prior year. adjustnnta
urplus or (loss)                                20a0uZ1453 .3i097a 28u  (1201fZ1l) (1-434.737)  AS96M405) ...1AJ                (859)
Total surplum or (deficit)                      19.366,304   3.526.278  (2,571,627) (13,239.835) (13.102.304) (10.158,063) (15,618.921)



BANGLADESH
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION-REPORT
BANgLADESH INLAND WATER TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
Actual-Balance Sheets from 1976-77 to 1982-83
Taka
Particulars                            1976-77         1977-78         1978-79         1979-SO           1980-81           1981-82            1982fr83
1                                     2              3                4               56                                  78
FUND ADLIABILITIES
Grant:  Foreign                                45,037,530    46,283,672    61,033,353    66,489,421              78,763,986         83,133,555        99,655,606
Government of Bangladesh              98,027,644   324,249,694   366,927,694   449,225,694             504,334,694       582,113,694       656,213,694
Loan:  Foreign                               173,238,649   156,251,689   154,158,633   159,466,829             162,265,686       219,733,243       291,949,468
Government of Bangladesh            300,255,000   157,127,000   204,287,000   218,177,006              284,936,000       325,235,000       377,557,000
Special Reaerve                                 9,672,476      11,241,671      11,241,671      11,241,671        li,241,671         11,241,671        11,241,67]
Provisions                                                        -               -               -              12,015,511         3,291,857          2,368,985
Bank Overdraft                                  5,223,300       6,371,330       5,500,000       4,500,000         3,300,000          2,500,000         2,000,000
Current Liabilities                            37.773.641      26.199.835    20.092.354    28.823.875            11.817.219         20.927.520        22.322.463
669,228,290   727,724,891   825,980,705   937,924,490   1,068,874,767   1,248.181,540   1.463,308,887
PPOPERTY AND ASSETS
Fixed Assets (%fromn Revenue)                   6,540,180      11,180,874      18,794,096      21,411,961        27,390,127         41,820,295       105,369,215 
Capital Outlay (Dcv. Exp)                     547,118,069   614,613,397   718,150,458   815,942,142             934,675,038   1,117,140,964   1,266,969,967
R.R. 'Programme                                69,054,640    62,054,640    62,054,640    62,054,640              62,054,640         62,054,640        62,054,640
U.S. Excess PropErty                              325,839         325,839         -               - 83
Cray marine Machine Import                        820.345         356.08    -____                              ______            ______             ______
616,859,073   688,530,835   798,999,194   897,408,743   1,024,119,865   1,221,015,899   1,434, 93,822
Less:  Depreciation                            21.056.430      21.056.430      24.390.39       44.752.362        68.158.910        89.459.354        115A011.860
595,802,643   667,474,405   774,608,802   849,656,381             955,960,955   1,131,556,545   1,319,331,962
Sundry Debtors                                 27,872,130    26,027,779    29,051,231    35,330,816              43,993,567         52,406,457        52,406,457
Advances                                        3,151,823       6,621,387       5,554,620       7,845,212         8,301,151         11,105,343        11,695,842
Pro-payments                                      -             6,901,852       3,794,907       9,924,587         8,479,881         11,511,190        20,&69,880
Current Accounts                                3,536,176       2,781,153       1,618,854       3,220,301         4,880,033          1,274,503         1,963,497
Cash & bank Balances                           35,316,283    17,895,338    18,757,707    16,109,774              18,322,457          1,232,711         2,677,537
Cu=nulative losses                              3.549 1235         22095t       2.594.584    15.834.419           280936.723       392094.791         54,713.712
669,228,290   727,724,891   825,980,705   937,924,490   1,068,874,767   1,248,181,540   1,463,308,887
*uummuwmw- u    Umuumu=mmm    *--numumuu        uoutsUU.nZa      uusinuunu*    ne w                   --e.nnnn
PPOPtRTY AND A88ETS~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



DANOLADISE
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADBSH INLUD WATIE TUNSPORT CORPORAION
Statenent of DeBt Sarvice Payable for the Year ,1977-78 to 1982-83
Loan       IDtereat       Priacipal                                 Loan        Interest       Principal
Nature Of  Loan           Amount       Payable         PaXYble        Total       ReV. I       Amount       Payable         Pavable       Total      Rev, 2
1977-78                                                                1918-79
A.D.P, Loan                12,48,93,000  1,12,40,370           -       1,12,40,370    6.88    12,48,93,000  1,12,40,370            -        1,12,40,370    5.83
Foreign Loan              17,13,55,421    15,49,521            -          15,49,521    0.95    17,97,09,474    15,55,053           -          15,55,053    0.81
Local Loan (B3B & BSRS)   2.54.41.658    20,53,318         28.69.936     49,23.254    3.01       2.40.45.278    18.14.501    28.44.160        46.58.661    2.42
32,16,90,079  1,48,43,209       28,69,936   1,77,13,145   10.84    32,86,47,752  1,46,09,924    28,44,160   1,74,54,084    9.06
M...n..n   .fufl..            ...             ....Ma...    Mun         mmn....  map  ...            n.n.....   Winn...... on    Mas.s
1979-80                                                                1980-81
A.D.P. Loan                12,48,93,000  1,12,40,370           -        ;,12,40,310    4.53    17,04,92,002  1,25,87,089    55,74,650   1,81,61,739    6.76
Foreign Loan              19,31,70,613    16,17,695            -          16,3 ,695    0.65    24,19,65,839    16,36,810           -          16,36,810    0.61
Local Loan (B8B   BSRB)   1,94.66375    15.91.295          28.76. -      44.68.107    1.80    1.78931.986    15.68.071    32.S.7719           48.25.790    1.80
33,75,29,988  1,44,49,360       28,76,a12   1,73,26,172    6.98    43,03,51,827  1,57,91,970    88,32,369   2,46,24,339    9.17
..u.uun.sun  ................. n    0  ............w ,  .........   .. ....... .....u am.....  was.....  mn...... ........    ....
1981-82                                                                1982-83
A.D.P. Loan               24,71,88,002  1,81,82,871        62,44,650   2,44,27,521    9.47    28,21,05,002  2,58,87,035    62,44,650   1,21,31,685   11.70
Foreign Loan              30,22,58,179    16,70,232            -          16,70,232    0.65    31,85,32,536    17,41,150           -          17,41,150    0.63
Local Loan (BB 6 BSRS)  1_42.90.852    15.95.336          40,39.990      56.35.335    2.18       1.40,19.492    17.43.899    46.50.397       63.94.296    2.33
56,37,37,033  2,14,48,439   1,02,84,649   3,17,33,088   12.30    61,47,27,030  2,93,72,084  1,08,95.047   4,02,67,131   14.66
..... ---aft  ...o w * -       mwuwnw  ."NO.Mm             11mss     u ....... t. -won .......... .--n-   -11  we-... ---. ...     ..



ANNEX 17 (Pa.ge 1,
- 4        *            GOa: AUTHORrTY
Phones: 236151-55
BANGLiDESH INLAND WATER TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
1. ut* W. uw (IRtM)                                       DIT BUILDING I ANN9XZ) 
uw q~~~~~~* uww:-~~~~~~~~~              POST  BOX 70. DACCA-4
BANGLAD3SUL
No .2Pp..715j2                Dated s 6th June  185.
Janab M.  Hal,
Chief PlanAing Cell
KinisL7y of Ports.Sipplng & IWT,
Govement of the peopwle'
R-public of a    ad
11sugladesh  ecritariat,
Dhaka.
Sub I Comments of BIWTA oan the ProJect
Completiom Report oan the 2nd 1aLW
W-ater ?esotP 1w"tCCQJ.t Ng,7X:dQ.*
Ref a lD Letter NG.ERD/DJflIJ/Mmu1-4/84-
V0olTI177 dtedMrh ,.1M
Wlith reference to the abovetbe undersigned is
directed to convrey the coswnts of the Authority as
follows I-
i)   The report Indicates (pars 5.10) that the World
Bank consultants recommended shlftlng of BIVTA Headquartor
from Dhaka to Barisal. But the basis of such recommendation
Coment   and programme for jeplemectation of the recommendation has
noted in
Pci,     not boon recorded any where. In Implementing the recommen-
para. 3.10
dation it is found that there is an acute searcity of
Office & residential accommodation at Barisal. Accordingly
by vacating the officers and staff from the Reidential
Estate at Barisal only approx. 25; of the reWiroment of
office accoumodetion for the Headquarter could be mt.
Such being the position,,BrWTA hs now been faced with a
serious problem In performing Its duties and responsibilities
The recommendation also did not analyse the adverse effect
on the efficiency of BIuTA due to silfting Headquarter from
Dhaka to Barisal.
Co_td .     .2.



-65-                       ANNEX 17 (Lae 2)
II)   T2e report inicates (page v,para-vil) that the
closing date of the credit was extended thee tims ed books
were kept open 16 months beyod the last closing date. BrITA
would like to point out that Instead of several extensions of
short duration, lf the extensions gdre siven for a longer
period at * time, the agencies would have got msfflcint time
Coment    for utilipatlon of the allocation. Extensions of short durat-
noted in the
Highlights Lon were not useful as during such a short tmoe It was not
possible to observe the requlred formalltLes for placing orders
and complete supply of the materIals for utillsatlon of the
credlt amount.
It Js requested that the Ministry may please forward
these coments of BIviTA to the llrl Bank through ERD at an
early date.
SdI.-
Joint Secretary
Copy to -
Mr. YukJnorl iatnebe,
Acting Director General,
Operation Eraluation Department,
1816 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433,
U..S. A.
Jolnt Secretary.
/BASHR






