Report No. 1570-BD                                                             R E  COpy
Bangladesh Appraisal of a Second Inland
Water Transport Project
June 20, 1977
South Asia Project
Transportation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disc:losed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is pegged to the Pound Sterling at a rate
of i 1.00 = Tk 26.70. The Pound floats relative to the US Dollar
and consequently, the Taka, US Dollar rate is subject to change.
The rate below has been used throughout this report, except where
stated to the contrary.
Currency Unit            =    Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$1                     =    Tk 15.67
(The average market rate in the fourth quarter of 1976)
WEIGHTS AND   EASURES
1 Mile                   -    1.6093 km
1 Foot                   =    0.3048 Meter
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIWTA     =    Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC     =    Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BSB       =    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSC       -    Bangladesh Shipping Corporation
BSEC      =    Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation
BTS       =    Bangladesh Transport Survey
CPA       =    Chittagong Port Authority
CPD       =    Chalna Port Directorate
GOB       =    Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
MOC       =    Ministry of Communications
POL       =    Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......            ...................... i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................ . .....    1
II.    BACKGROUND ...........................  ................. .   2
III.    INLAND WATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM AND BENEFICIARIES ....    6
A.   Management and Organization                 ..................   6
B.    Inland Waterways Systems ......................    8
C.    Vessel Fleets         .................................    8
D.    Dockyards for Maintenance & Construction of
Vessels .......       ........................ .           9
E.    Traffic and Operations of Vessels ............                9
IV.    THE PROPOSED PROJECT ...............................  13
A.    Formulation          ...................................  13
B.    Description of the Project             ....................  14
C.    Execution of the Project, Procurement and
Disbursement ................................  16
V.   FINANCES ...........................................   17
A.    BIWTA        .........................................   17
B.    BIWTC ........................................   18
VI.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .................         .............  20
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............  22
This report was written by Messrs. Y. Abe, D. Perfrement and J. Spencer.
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1.   BTS Traffic Data
2.   Transport Infrastructure, Rolling Stock and Equipment
3.   Estimates of Development Investments in the Transport Sector
4.   BIWTC Fleet
5.   Private Fleet
6.   Freight Traffic by Major Commodities
7.   Items to be Financed by the Proposed Credit
8.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
9.   BIWTA's Statements of Income and Expense Accounts
10.   BIWTA's Balance Sheet June 30, 1976
11.   BIWTC's Actual and Forecast Profit and Loss Accounts
12.   BIWTC's Balance Sheets 1972-76
13.   BIWTC's Cash Flow
14.   BIWTC Details of Outstanding Loans
ANNEXES
1.   Scope of Bangladesh Transport Study
2.   Freight Traffic by Major Commodities
3.   Typical Breakdown of Time Taken for Operations
4.   Scope of Technical Assistance
5.   Project Description and Cost Estimates
6.   Financial Projections
CHART
Organization of Ministry of Communications (World Bank-17394)
Project Implementation Schedule (World Bank-17395)
MAP
Bangladesh Transportation Network (IBRD 12279)



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for inland water transport, with the
objective of improving the operational performance and financial position of
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) and Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation (BIWTC), thereby enabling the inland water transport
sector to play its proper economic role in the Bangladesh transport system.
The proposed credit of US$5 million equivalent would be the fifth Bank Group
lending operation for the sector. The first was made in 1961 to then-East
Pakistan; and the most recent credit (Credit 424-BD) was made in 1973. Total
Bank Group lending to the sector has amounted to about US$21 million equivalent.
ii.       The 1974 Bangladesh Transport Survey (BTS) financed by the U.K.
Government and prepared by the Economic Intelligence Unit (EIU, UK) in asso-
ciation with Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (SWKP, UK) and E.G.
Frankel, Inc. (USA) made a comprehensive review of the transport sector up
to 1973. The major conclusions of BTS were that the strategy for the trans-
port sector, at least for several years, should be to improve operational
efficiency and to maintain the existing facilities without putting too much
emphasis on expansion. In order to achieve this, BTS indicated that the main
problems such as poor ferry service, poor wagon turnaround on the railways and
high detention time for inland water vessels should be solved by minor but
selective investments, together with improvements in pricing policy and trans-
port planning. If these improvements were made, BTS indicated that there
should be considerable transport cost savings. Although implementation of some
of the recommendations has contributed to a restoration of some transport
capacity, many of the needed improvements in overall efficiency have yet to
be realized.
iii.      The inland water transport sector is the most important mode of
transport in the country. It is dominant in the transport of imported food-
grains and petroleum products (POL) from Chittagong to major cities, of jute
and related goods for export from inland to Chalna Port and of other bulk
commodities such as cement and fertilizer. Also, it is important in servicing
the distribution of bulk commodities from major cities to rural areas and
coping with substantial passenger and ferry requirements.
iv.       The Ministry of Communications (MOC) through its Ports, Shipping
and Inland Water Transport Division is responsible for the inland water trans-
port sector and executes its duties through the Bangladesh Inland Water Trans-
port Authority (BIWTA), and the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC). The latter was created after independence in 1972 by the national-
ization of a major part of the mechanized inland water fleet. But a large
part of inland water transport operations is in private hands. BIWTA suffers
from a lack of capacity to monitor and regulate the inland water transport
sector and from a lack of funds to provide essential services. BIWTC's



- ii -
operations are poorly organized, there is inefficient programming of vessels
and poor monitoring of fleet utilization and an unsatisfactory financial
position. Its services are also hampered because of poor dockyards. Finally,
the private sector is handicapped by obsolete vessels and poor dockyards.
v.        GOB is receiving financial and technical assistance for the inland
water transport sector from various countries, notably, the Netherlands and
Norway. The proposed credit is intended to complement these efforts. The
proposed credit would finance equipment, materials and spare parts for BIWTA
and BIWTC, communications equipment, and specialist services to (i) assist
GOB in strengthening planning, project preparation and training; (ii) review,
recommend and assist in implementing measures for improving the finances of
BIIWTA and BIWTC; and (iii) review, recommend and assist in implementing mea-
sures for improving cargo vessel deployment, cargo handling operations and
communications within the inland water transport system.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at Tk 133 million (US$8.5
million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of US$4.8 million. The
proposed credit of US$5 million would finance about US$1.9 million equivalent
and materials, about US$1.5 million equivalent of spares and about US$0.7
million of technical assistance; and the balance is for price contingencies.
It would finance the full foreign exchange cost of equipment, materials and
spares and the full cost of proposed technical assistance or about 59% of the
total project costs. Up to US$3.4 million equivalent of equipment, materials
and spare parts will be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guieelines.  Out of US$1.5 million equivalent for spare
parts, some critical spares for existing vessels and equipment may be purchased
from the original suppliers. Procurement of locally available imported spares
costing less than US$5,000 per contract may be purchased through normal GOB's
procedures. Such purchases would, however, be limited to US$50,000 equivalent
in total. IDA would review contracts and related documentation for all orders
valued at US$50,000 equivalent or more. Although provision has been made for
financing of 100% of local expenditures for locally manufactured equipment,
materials and spares and the full cost of technical assistance, the amount of
local cost financing under the proposed credit is expected to be minimal and,
in any event, is unlikely to exceed US$0.4 million equivalent.
vii.      GOB has yet to develop a coherent investment program for the sector,
and to generate the detailed vessel and port operational data, traffic fore-
casts, and costing data, all of which are required for the development of such
programs. The proposed project has been defined within these constraints. It
would make a significant contribution to the inland water transport sector by
meeting priority requirements and by initiating institutional improvements.
It will, in addition, lead to the preparation of a possible future project
with necessary economic, technical and financial justification.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5
million equivalent to GOB. The portion of the credit made available to BIWTA
and BIWTC will be passed on by GOB on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB) has
requested an IDA credit of US$5.0 million equivalent to finance part of the
immediate foreign exchange requirements of the inland water transport sector.
The project is designed to assist in the improvement of services rendered by
the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA) and Bangladesh Inland
Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC), to strengthen these agencies' operations
and finances and to assist in the preparation of a possible future project.
The project will complement other financial and technical assistance now being
provided by various countries.
1.02      The proposed credit would be the fifth lending operation involving
inland water transport. Credits 16 (in 1961) and 65-PAK (in 1964) to then-
East Pakistan, totalling US$7.2 million, emphasized the need for the improve-
ment of infrastructure and operations of the Inland Water Transport Authority
(IWTA). After some initial delays in project implementation, both projects
were completed satisfactorily. Credit 339-BD (Coastal Area Rehabilitation and
Cyclone Protection Project) in 1972 included provision for the procurement of
service support vessels and the construction and repair of inland water termi-
nals for BIWTA. Except for some remaining minor civil works related to inland
terminals, most of the civil works and procurement of goods have been completed.
As a result of the hostilities in 1971, the inland water transport related
agencies suffered greatly and Credit 424-BD (US$4.1 million) in 1973 provided
for urgently needed spare parts and equipment. A Supplementary Credit (US$4.6
million) was approved in 1975 for procurement of two used tankers for lighter-
ing imported oil. The procurement of spare parts and equipment under the
Credit is almost completed, and the tankers will shortly be ready for opera-
tion. The performance of GOB and the agencies on both Credit 339-BD and the
original Credit 424-BD suffered from slow acquisition of land for terminals
and on the latter from Government's cumbersome procurement procedures. The
procurement of the tankers under the supplementary credit also took longer
than originally envisaged. During the period of reconstruction, priority
was given to immediate needs in restoring facilities and equipment and these
credits contained no financial or institution building conditions.
1.03      Other Bank Group assistance for transportation in Bangladesh total-
ling about US$54 million, consisted of one on-going highway project (Credit
408-BD) reactivating a road project (Credit 53-PAK in 1964) and four railway
projects, three in the 1950's and one in 1964 to then-East Pakistan. While
railway projects were completed after some delays, the progress of the highway
project has been extremely slow because of lack of suitable materials, poor
performance of Government supplied equipment, the reluctance of foreign



contractors to bid for work in Bangladesh, the use of inexperienced contractors,
and delays in agreeing on the design and location of a new Highway Department
building. Construction works are now expected to be completed in mid-1979.
With past experience in mind, the proposed project has been prepared to assist
GOB and its agencies in improving the overall performance of the inland water
transport sector.
1.04      This report was prepared from information supplied by GOB, BIWTA
and BIWTC and from the findings of the October 1976 and March 1977 appraisal
missions, composed of Messrs. Y. Abe (Economist), D. Perfrement (Port Engineer)
and J. Spencer (Financial Analyst).
II. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Bangladesh covers a land area of about 55,000 square miles, less
than one fifth that of Pakistan. It is divided in the middle along a general-
ly north south line by the Jamuna/Padma/Meghna River, and the halves are
further divided by the main tributary river systems of the Ganges and the
Meghna. There are many smaller rivers, canals and other water courses. The
monsoon floods make necessary the construction of railways and roads on high
embankments, a particularly costly operation in Bangladesh because of the
general lack of building materials. Floods frequently shift channels, requir-
ing ferries to be moved, and navigable waterways to be cleared or relocated.
2.02      Bangladesh's gross domestic product (GDP) in 1975/76 at current
factor cost is estimated at about US$10.4 billion with a per capita GDP of
about US$128. The real average annual growth rate of GDP has been about 7%
during the past three years starting from a very low base immediately after
the war. The major sector in the economy is agriculture, generating about 60%
of GDP. Annual balance-of-payments deficits on current account of about
US$870 million have been experienced in the past three years. The population,
currently about 81 million, is growing at about 3% per annum.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.03      Over the centuries, economic activities developed along the banks of
the numerous rivers in the country. Thus, historically, inland water transport
has been the most important element of the transport sector. The railways,
originally developed as a part of the Indian Railways system in the nineteenth
century, connect key economic centers such as Dacca, Chittagong, Mymensingh,
Khulna, Ishurdi, etc. Later, roads were developed but the development of the
road system and the road transport industry has not been emphasized with the
exception of certain short and melium-haul services. All transport modes
serve the key centers of Bangladesh. They largely complement one another
rather than compete for traffic. Information on the Bangladesh transport
sector is detailed in the Bangladesh Transport Survey (BTS) financed by the
U.K. Government and prepared by the Economic Intelligence Unit (EIU, UK) in
association with E.G. Frankel, Inz. (US). The report dated November 1974



- 3 -
presents a comprehensive review of the sector up to 1973. BTS is useful
source of data and for considering policy options in the transport sector.
Annex 1 describes the scope of BTS. It is currently being updated with U.K.
technical assistance. The draft report is expected to be available by end-
1978. Bangladesh's transport network is shown in Map IBRD 12279.
2.04      No detailed up-to-date traffic data in terms of traffic flows, pass-
enger-miles and ton-miles are available. BTS estimated total inter-district
freight traffic by mechanized transport in 1973 at 7.5 million tons, consisting
of food grains (3.6 million tons), petroleum (1.0), jute (0.9), coal (0.4) and
others of which the inland water transport sector (including bay-crossing
vessels) carried 62%; road 17% and rail, 21% (see Table 1). The total inter-
district passenger traffic by major modes was estimated at 10.3 billion
passenger miles in 1973. Of this, railways carried about 28%; road transport
(bus), 34%; and mechanized inland water vessels, 38%. In addition, substantial
freight and passengers are carried by non-mechanized vessels (country boats)
and bullock carts. The main freight traffic direction is along two north-south
corridors based on the ports of Chalna and Chittagong. Freight consists mainly
of foreign trade items such as exports of jute (Chalna) and imports of food
grains, fuel and raw materials and industrial products (Chittagong). This
dichotomy is a consequence of Bangladesh's economic structure and geographical
distribution of supply and demand of various goods. Available data on the
transport sector are shown in Table 2. The inland water transport system is
described in Chapter III.
2.05      Road transport services are .provided by the state-controlled
Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation (BRTC) and private operators who carry
about 90% of road traffic. BRTC is having difficulty in maintaining its fleet
capacity due to the age of its vehicles, the lack of repair facilities and
shortage of spare parts. The total number of vehicles, including trucks,
buses and passenger cars was about 53,000 in 1975. The principal road network
consists of 2,700 miles of all-weather roads and 1,500 miles of fair-weather
roads. Much of the main road system consists of unconnected stretches.
2.06      The Bangladesh Railway Board (BRB) operates a railway system of
1,786 miles: 1,186 miles are in meter gauge; the balance in broad gauge.
The present condition of the railway is extremely poor and BRB is unable to
carry considerable quantities of freight traffic which is ideally suited to
transport by rail. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and several countries,
notably Saudi Arabia, are providing considerable support to BRB in an effort
to upgrade its operations.
2.07      The two maritime ports, Chittagong and Chalna are controlled respect-
ively by Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) and Chalna Port Directorate (CPD)
under the Ministry of Communications. Chittagong handled about 4.5 million
tons of cargo; and Chalna, about 1.5 million tons in 1975/76. Chittagong,
which is a lighterage port, is being assisted by Dutch aid and the ADB in
improving its operations; Credit 424-BD is financing the construction of an
oil jetty to unload imported crude oil and to ease congestion in the port
area. Chalna, which is an anchorage, is now being developed as a full mari-
time port with help from Yugoslavia. GOB has been considering for some time



- 4 -
the possibility of building a deel) sea port for handling bulk commodities.
A feasibility study for such a po:-t will start shortly with Dutch assistance.
2.08      Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) operates 16 dry cargo vessels
with a total capacity of about 140,000 DWT. GOB is aiming to obtain for BSC
a greater share of the country's foreign trade, since only 9% of total exports
and about 2% of imports were carried by BSC in 1975/76. To this end, BSC has
recently purchased with Norwegian assistance a large oil tanker for the import
of crude oil.
2.09      Air transport has been increasing.  A Government owned airline,
Bangladesh Biman (BB) provides domestic and international services. Bangla-
desh is also served by other international airlines. Most traffic is handled
at the Dacca International Airport which is too small to handle increasing
traffic. A new international airport is being built near the existing one
with French and Islamic Development Bank assistance.
C.   Transport Policy and Investment
2.10      After the major setbacks suffered by the country's transport system
as a result of the 1971 war, considerable progress has been made in recent
years. Most of the damaged bridges and ports have been rebuilt; the major
constraint imposed on the railways by the 1971 war was removed in September
1973, with the reopening of the King George VI bridge. GOB gave the restor-
ation of the transport sector high, priority in the Annual Development Plans
of 1972/73-1974/75; a great porticn of transport rehabilitation programs was
financed by foreign aid amounting to about US$300 million equivalent. However,
the sector suffers from low productivity, due mainly to poor management,
inadequate repair facilities, lack of spare parts and materials and insuffi-
cient procurement of replacement items. Table 3 indicates public sector
investment in transportation in the four years ending 1975/76.
2.11      The Government is facing difficult problems in improving the trans-
port sector. In addition to historical and natural problems that Bangladesh
has to tackle, the Government will have to improve planning and management
and maintain an appropriate balance (i) between capacity expansion and proper
use and adequate maintenance of existing capacity; and (ii) between the public
and private sectors. During the reconstruction period, it was natural to give
priority to restoration of capacity, depending mainly upon foreign aid. How-
ever, it is now essential to consolidate the present capacity and to improve
operational efficiency through better management. Such problems as the need
for financial improvement as well as the need for greater autonomy in the
agencies should be given more consideration. These are in line with BTS
recommendations and GOB's policy statements. After independence, public sec-
tor ownership and control was substantially expanded in road and inland water
transport. However, GOB recognizes that there have been deficiencies in pub-
lic sector operations in these fields due to a shortage of managerial personnel
and incentives. Recent Government policy is to permit a greater role for the
private sector.



- 5 -
2.12      A Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) was established in February
1973 "to ensure the most economic utilization of transport resources, public
and private, available in the country" and it has been effective in alleviat-
ing the immediate capacity problems. In order to increase the efficiency of
the management of the transport sector, GOB, in line with a BTS recommenda-
tion, reorganized two transport-related ministries into a new Ministry of
Communications (MOC) in January 1976. MOC is responsible for all transport
matters except for the civil aviation sector. The effectiveness of the new
Ministry has so far been limited by the tendency for each Division to act
independently without adequate consultation with the other. In addition to
MOC, the Ministry of Planning (MOP) is responsible for coordinating transport
investments and policies, but is not yet fully effective in carrying out this
function.
2.13      With a view to improving transport planning and data collection
on traffic flows, operational statistics and costs, GOB has established a
Planning Cell in each of the Divisions in MOC and in each transport operat-
ing agency. While these are steps in the right direction, GOB's decision-
making in investment planning is still dispersed, and none of the agencies
plans on the basis of comprehensive information regarding the whole transport
sector. Organizational changes as a means to improve transport planning and
policy decisions can have effect only if the need therefor is fully realized
and accepted. The extent of the problem makes it unrealistic to expect more
than gradual changes. The effort to convince GOB at the higher level of the
need for proper planning should be continued; IDA is expected to assist the
Planning Commission in improving the quality of national economic planning.
Meanwhile, in the immediate term there are certain areas where the need for
improvement is acknowledged and where specific action is feasible. For inland
water transport, it has been agreed that GOB will furnish to IDA, by not later
than December 31, 1978, a draft medium-term investment program. This draft
investment program will be reviewed by IDA with a view to agreeing on a
rational cverall investment plan for the sector. The proposed credit makes
provision for technical assistance (see Annex 4) to assist GOB in collecting
meaningful data and preparing these investment plans. It has been agreed
that, not later than December 31, 1977:
(i) MOC will appoint specialists to assist in the prepara-
tion of investment plans and projects in inland water
transport and a staff training program to upgrade the
quality of Planning Cells in the Ports, Shipping and
Inland Water Transport Division of MOC, and those in
BIWTA and BIWTC;
(ii) BIWTA will appoint specialists to improve the data
collection system for the sector.



III.  INLAND hATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A.   Management and Organization
3.01      The Ministry of Communications (MOC) through its Ports, Shipping
and Inland Water Transport Division is responsible for the inland water trans-
port sector and executes its duties through the Bangladesh Inland Water Trans-
port Authority (BIWTA) and the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC). There are three other principal public sector institutions related
to inland water transport: CPA, CPD and the Bangladesh Steel and Engineering
Corporation (BSEC). Much of the cargo handled by CPA and CPD is distributed
by inland water transport. BSEC is a corporation comprised of a number of
nationalized steel and engineering enterprises including two shipyards. The
1973 Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project (Credit 424-BD) provided
spare parts, maintenance equipment and tools to BIWTA, BIWTC, CPA and BSEC.
The beneficiaries of the proposed credit would be MOC, BIWTA and BIWTC; in-
land water transport related agencies are being improved by GOB and other aid
giving agencies. A chart attached to this report (17394) describes the orga-
nization of the inland water transport sector.
3.02      The BIWTA was established in 1958 to develop and control inland
water transport and waterways. Its functions include waterways and river
conservancy and related services, improvement of inland ports, the prepara-
tion of regulations governing inland water traffic and the control of rates
and fares. It also acts as a coordinating body for the development of private
sector operators. Although BIWTA has a Board consisting of a chairman and a
finance member, for all practical purposes the Authority is virtually a Gov-
ernment Department operating through the BIWTA chairman who is the chief
executive. The Government has control over staff appointments and promotions,
salaries and budgets. The total number of employees is about 4,500.
3.03      One of BIWTA's pressing problems is to have a more meaningful rela-
tionship than now with the users of the inland waterways system. In the past,
this had been achieved through an Advisory Committee whose members included
representatives from all agencies as well as the private sector. After in-
dependence, the Committee ceased to operate but it has been recently recon-
stituted. The Advisory Committee could serve as an excellent source of inputs
to BIWTA on navigational problems, coordination of inland water transport
operations between marine and inland ports, and research on modernizing of
vessels and needs for re-engining of private vessels. In addition, in order
to make an ongoing assessment of the sector's requirement, BIWTA will have
to improve existing methods of data collection concerning vessel inventory,
vessel operation and traffic data. This would facilitate routine investment,
operational planning and foreign exchange allocation within the inland water
transport sector. To this end, provision for technical assistance is included
in the proposed credit (see para 2.13). Also, the proposed credit includes
provision for procurement of spare parts for BIWTA's service support vessels,
and for navigation and hydrographic equipment.



3.04      The BIWTC was established as a body corporate on March 26, 1972,
by Presidential Order No. 28 of 1972. The main purpose of forming the cor-
poration was to take over the assets, liabilities and obligations of the East
Pakistan Shipping Corporation and the Pakistan River Steamers Limited. In
addition, other smaller companies were absorbed by the corporation following
independence because several of the operating entities were owned either by
foreign companies or by firms having their roots in Pakistan. Altogether ten
operating firms were absorbed.
3.05      The Board of BIWTC consists of a chairman who is the chief executive
and three other members of whom two are full time officers, the Director of
Maintenance and Operations of BIWTC and the Finance Member. The fourth member
is the chairman of BIWTA. The total number of employees is about 7,900.
3.06      BIWTC is the only public sector agency offering freight transport
and some passenger services on the inland water transport system. It pro-
vides a little over 50% of the cargo handling capacity of the inland fleet
and about 10% of total passenger carrying capacity. Its ferry services for
movement of trucks and passengers are important links in the country's trans-
portation system.
3.07      The private sector constitutes a very important element in the
inland water transport sector because it handles about 90% of the passenger
traffic and 50% of freight traffic. In general its operations are fairly ef-
ficient, considering the difficulties, such as obtaining adequate allocations
of foreign exchange for equipment and spare parts, poor dockyard equipment,
high taxation and the high cost of finance for new and replacement vessels.
As a part of its policy to permit a greater role for the private sector, GOB
is encouraging the expansion of the private sector in inland water transport.
For example, in late 1976 GOB requested the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) to
channel some of its funds, which include an existing US$25 million credit
(Credit 632-BD), to private operators investing in vessels; BSB recently
approved projects which will expand private sector inland fleet capacity.
BSB has engaged in such lending in the past and their appraisals have been
satisfactory.
B.   Inland Waterways Systems
3.08      There are about 2,300 miles of navigable waterways in Bangladesh
during the dry season and these increase to 3,300 miles during the high water
monsoon season, excluding sea routes and tidal creeks. The major inland water
transport routes which link the five primary inland water ports at Dacca,
Narayanganj, Chandpur, Barisal and Khulna and further connect these inland
water ports with the maritime ports at Chittagong and Chalna, are generally
maintained to 12 ft. draft availability, apart from some five shoal areas
where at least 9 ft. 6 in. is provided at low water. However, due to the
intensity and volume of water runoff, the regime of the waterways often
changes. Also, the variations in the level of water affect operation of the
inland water transport system.



- 8 -
3.09      The inland waterways are provided by BIWTA with n4-- gation s1ids
consisting of some 30 lighted buoys, 40 unlighted buoys and _O beacons.  The
positions of these buoys and beacons are not shown on any public charts, be-
cause changes in waterways' regime require frequent relocation of many navi-
gation aids. Most of the inland water operators navigate waterways using
knowledge acquired by experience and by reference to the periodically publish-
ed "River Notices" circulated by BIWTA when depths of water alter on shoals.
To maintain the published depths of water in the waterways, BIWTA now has a
fleet of eight cutter-suction drecdgers, five of which have very recently been
acquired through Dutch aid; a Dutch advisory team is in Bangladesh to train
BIWTA staff in the use of the new dredgers.
C.   Vessel Fleets
3.10      BIWTC had in 1976 a cargo fleet of some 589 vessels comprising bay
crossing and inland water vessels with a total static capacity of about
180,000 tons, 19 passenger vessels and 17 ferries. About 40% of the BIWTC
cargo fleet will shortly require extensive repairs and about 30% will require
extensive repairs within 5 years. More than half the passenger vessels are
old. The 1976 composition of the BIWTC fleet is shown in Table 4. Many
vessels have been laid up waiting for repairs and spare parts. Others which
were unserviceable and were beyoncl economic repair were "divested" by BIWTC
but were mainly sold as scrap. Meanwhile, BIWTC with the assistance of spe-
cialists to be financed under the proposed credit will prepare a time phased
program of rehabilitation and/or replacement of BIWTC vessels. Procurement
of spare parts for BIWTC vessels has been provided for in the proposed credit.
3.11      There are no complete and detailed statistics of the private ves-
sels. However, it is estimated that the private sector has 615 passenger
vessels with a total capacity of 77,000 passengers and 696 vessels with a
total capacity of about 128,000 tons (see Table 5). These vessels are of
various designs and are old, suffer from lack of "readily available" spare
parts, and need rehabilitation or replacement. In order to standardize vessel
design, BIWTA has recently establ:shed a vessel design center with Dutch
technical assistance.
D.   Dockyards for Maintenance and Construction of Vessels
3.12      For vessel repair and maintenance, BIWTC has three dockyards and
one floating dock in the Narayanganj area, one small workshop in Narayanganj
and one in Khulna with a total of about 550 workers; one of the Narayanganj
dockyards is being reclaimed by the original owner. The dockyards generally
are in poor condition with obsolei-e equipment, and a critical lack of spare
parts and materials, and poor fac-.lities.  The Norwegian Government is to
assist by providing equipment and technical assistance for the BIWTC yards;
this should bring about a marked `mprovement.
3.13      BIWTA has workshops and repair yards at Barisal, mainly for the
repair and maintenance of its own fleet and navigational equipment such as
buoys and lights. In 1968, construction and equipping of the main workshop



- 9 -
was commenced but due to the war, the project was not completed, and some
modern equipment is still lying unused.  The Dutch Government is to assist
BIWTA in completing the workshops.
3.14      The Government-owned Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation
(BSEC) has two yards for the construction of inland water vessels. The
Narayanganj yard has a present building capacity of nine to ten barges a
year, utilizing about 2,000 tons of steel. However, production has been
restricted by inadequate slipway and crane facilities. The yard employs
about 1,250 persons. Two Norwegian engineers on a two-year contract financed
by NORAD have assisted in improving yard productivity. The Khulna yard is
at present the most important shipbuilding facility in the country. This
yard is well equipped and well managed. The two yards together have the
capability to supply new vessels for the inland waterways and bay-crossing
services, but currently, both suffer from a lack of new orders, due mainly
to the high cost of new construction arising from the high cost of locally
produced steel in relation to world prices and the high import duties levied
on engines and equipment, as compared with duty on imported complete vessels.
The private sector depends for the maintenance of its fleet on the numerous
private dockyards; many yardowners also own vessels. Many yards construct
small craft and bay crossing barges and overall productivity appears higher
than in BIWTC yards. Improvement of the private yards could make a consider-
able contribution to the inland water sector and additional equipment needs
are being financed by BSB. In order to foster demand for local yard products
and to save foreign exchange, modifications to the import tariff structure may
be necessary and this has been drawn to the attention of GOB. A Committee to
review the problem was appointed in mid-1976 and some modifications are being
made.
E.   Traffic and Operations of Vessels
(i) Freight
3.15      Overall freight traffic carried by the mechanized fleets in 1974/75
is estimated at 3.5 million tons and 578 million ton miles, including freight
carried by BIWTC, the private operators and the chartered mini-bulkers. 1/
In 1975/76, BIWTC carried about 1.8 million tons of freight, but there is
no data available on freight carried by private operators. The mechanized
fleets are supplemented by about 300,000 country boats with an average loading
capacity of about one to two tons; they probably carry more in total than the
mechanized fleets, but traffic and operational characteristics are unrecorded.
The traffic in 1974/75 by major commodities carried by mechanized carriers is
shown below:
1/   In the emergency situation caused by the destruction of road and rail
facilities during the war in 1971, the role of the inland water transport
sector was considerably magnified. Since domestically available inland
water vessels were not sufficient, the additional capacity was provided
in mini-bulkers chartered by United Nations immediately after the war and
fromn 1974 to February 1976 they were chartered by GOB.



- 10 -
Tons      Ton miles       % of ton miles
(1,000)     (million)      BIWTC      Private
Foodgrains (excluding minis)        492         50.0           81        19
Foodgrains (minis)                  400         40.7         n.a.       n.a.
Jute (raw)                          232         26.7          71         29
Jute (manufactured)                 181         21.4           65        35
Fertilizer                           84          9.8           26        74
Cement                              127         19.0           40        60
Petroleum Products                1,297        276.3           42        58
Coal                                107         16.0           24        76
Others                              628        117.7           89        11
Total (including mini-bulkers) 3,548          577.6         n.a.       n.a.
Total (excluding mini-bulkers)(3,148)        (546.9)        (58)       (42)
3.16      Cargo movement is divided into two major categories because of the
different requirements for vessels. One involves the bay-crossing route
in the Bay of Bengal from and to the Port of Chittagong, while the other in-
volves purely inland waterways. Comparative statistics in 1974/75 indicate
that freight carried in bay-crossing operations was about 62% of the total.
Freight traffic by major commodities is shown in Table 6 and described in
Annex 2.
3.17      The principal commodities carried along the bay-crossing routes are
petroleum products (55%), foodgrains (25%) and general cargo (14%), and the
most important route is from the Port of Chittagong to Dacca/Narayanganj (183
miles) and to Khulna (260 miles). Petroleum products are transported from
a refinery at Chittagong and all other goods are imported through the Port of
Chittagong. The most important route for inland water cargo movement is be-
tween Dacca/Narayanganj and Khulna/Chalna about (190 miles), but there also
is a high density of freight traffic between Khulna and Chalna (30 miles).
The Khulna and Chalna route connects the inland waterways port and the marine
port, and there is currently no other means of transport available. There
are plans to extend the rail and/or road from Khulna to Chalna and ADB is
currently considering a project for road construction. Major commodities
are general cargo and foodgrains from Khulna/Chalna to upcountry, and jute
as well as jute products for export through Chalna Port mainly originating
from Dacca/Narayanganj. In total, about 88% of the freight is moved within
the Chittagong-Dacca/Narayanganj-Khulna/Chalna triangle.
3.18      Lack of detailed operational data renders estimates of the capacity
and operational performance of the freight vessels difficult. However,
based on available data mainly from BIWTC and discussions with BIWTA and the
private operators, the overall efficiency of freight vessels appears to be
low because of excessive time spent at ports for loading and unloading,
sailing limitations, including limited night sailing, and long waiting time
for maintenance. Since the termination of the mini-bulker contract in February
1976, BIWTC and the private sector have been providing services for foodgrains
movement previously rendered by these vessels between Chittagong and Dacca/



- 11 -
Narayanganj. Initially, the coasters achieved satisfactory operational
performance because of more strict supervision by the Government; the coasters'
previous average turnaround of less than one per month between Chittagong and
Dacca/Narayanganj increased to two or more per month in March but fell by July
to about one per month. During the remainder of 1976, they averaged less than
one trip per month. However, these restrictions were due mainly to a decline
in foodgrain imports. (Available data on current operational characteristics of
transport of major commodities are described in Annex 2 and of various fleets
summarized in Annex 3.)
3.19      There is however still much scope for improvement in freight opera-
tions. First, ports suffer from poor access to and layout of jetties, in-
adequate facilities for cargo handling, storage and lighting for night working.
Cargo loading and unloading is mainly labor intensive, though such commodities
as raw jute bales, drums and larger pieces of general cargo require mechanical
equipment. However, only a few shore facilities would support the weight of
mechanical equipment. There is currently little incentive to labor contractors
to unload quickly since an average daily rate of unloading is stated in the
shipment contract and since, although dispatch money for quick unloading should
be paid by the carrier, it is rarely paid and night working is not practised.
The current method of cargo handling and clearance should be improved. The
Norwegian Government will assist BIWTA in improving jetty facilities at
Narayanganj (Khanpur jetty) and Khulna (Maheshawapasha jetty). Provision has
been included in the project for procurement of three mobile cranes, equipment
and materials for improvement of cargo handling facilities, and technical
assistance for improvement of cargo handling efficiency. Second, BIWTC should
improve its programming of vessels and monitoring of fleet utilization and
increase the availability of vessel spare parts to reduce time lost awaiting
repair. The proposed credit includes provision of equipment, materials and
spare parts for BIWTC vessels and of technical assistance to improve BIWTC's
operations. Third, the inland water transport system should be equipped with
proper telecommunications systems. At present BIWTA, BIWTC, CPA, BRB, BRTC,
BTTG and Chalna Port all have separate telecommunication systems and the coor-
dination of these systems could assist considerably in streamlining traffic
movements within the inland water sector and in relation to land traffic and
ocean traffic. Such coordination would permit more efficient deployment and
better utilization of vessels by reducing waiting time, and by ensuring that
cargoes for export were routed to the ocean port in keeping with ocean-going
ship movements, since at present cargo may lie at Chalna for two weeks or more
awaiting the arrival of a particular ship. The proposed credit includes pro-
vision for technical assistance for a study on the improvement of the communi-
cations system, and procurement of some additional communications equipment.
3.20      During negotiations, the scope of technical assistance (see Annex 4)
to improve cargo handling and clearance at major ports affecting the inland
water transport sector, BIWTC's freight operations and the telecommunications
system was discussed. It has been agreed that, not later than December 31,
1977:
(i) BIWTA will appoint operational specialists to review
and improve cargo handling efficiency;



- 12 -
(ii) BIWTC will appoint operational specialists to review
and improve fleet scheduling and deployment; and
(iii) BIWTA will appoint Specialists to make a detailed engineer-
ing study of the communications system for the sector as
a whole.
(ii) Passenger
3.21      About 170 regular services were operated with about 615 registered
private passenger launches in 1974/75, and many additional services were
operated by unregistered private launches. Most passenger launches are single
deckers with wooden hulls, and many are very old. The responsibility for the
registration and survey of inland water transport in Bangladesh is with the
office of the Engineer and Ship Surveyor and the Registrar of Inland Shipping
in MOC.
3.22      BIWTA is responsible for compiling passenger statistics, but data
collected covers only a small part of the operating services. The private
sector carries about 97% of total passengers (91% of passenger miles) with a
total (private + BIWTC) annual ave-age of 36 million passengers (918 million
passenger miles). The table below summarizes the passenger traffic data
compiled by BIWTA.
Passengers (millions)        Passenger miles (millions)
Private   BIWTC   Total       Private    BIWTC    Total
1972/73    32.8       1.6    34.4        787.0      136.9    923.9
1973/74    35.2       0.5    35.7        845.3       38.2    883.5
1974/75    36.7       0.8    37.5        880.3       65.7    946.0
Technical assistance to improve daza collection methods is included in the
credit.
(iii) Tariffs
3.23      BIWTA is the regulatory agency having responsibility for authoriz-
ing changes in tariffs. In practice, BIWTA reviews and analyzes the private
operators' requests for fare and rate revisions while BIWTC deals directly
with GOB and negotiates rates with shippers, many of whom are Government
agencies. Freight rates of BIWTC are based on cost figures prepared by the
management, but they are not very reliable and therefore, the technical
assistance specialists (Annex 4) will be required to assist in improving
cost accounting data. The rates charged by BIWTC are within the range of
US cents 1.9-3.2 equivalent per ton mile for the principal commodities
carried; most rates are around 2.3 cents which represent a reasonable level,
somewhat below the rates ruling in Burma where conditions are similar.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Formulation
4.01      GOB's original proposal for IDA financing in October 1976 amounted
to about US$14 million and consisted of equipment procurement for BIWTA,
BIWTC and private operators as well as dockyards. However, the proposal was
not based on a coherent investment program for the inland water transport
sector and lacked supporting economic, financial and technical justification.
In addition, some items included in the original proposal will be financed by
bilateral sources. The needs of the private sector would be financed by BSB as
mentioned in para 3.07. After a review of the items contained in the request
and in the light of the evident need to improve management and planning in the
sector, and operations and finances of both BIWTA and BIWTC, the project
described below was formulated.
B.   Description of the Project
4.02      The project, which is to help improve the overall efficiency of the
inland water transport system, would include the provision of:
(i)  equipment and materials for cargo vessels and for the
improvement of the communications system and of cargo-
handling operations and facilities;
(ii)  three 7/10 ton mobile cranes for river-side jetties
at Dacca and Khulna; and
(iii)  spare parts for BIWTC's vessels and for BIWTA's
navigation and hydrographic equipment.
In support of the above procurement of equipment, materials and spare parts,
the project would also include a program of technical assistance related
directly to the planning, operational, and financial/accounting problems
described in Chapter III, as follows:
(i) to strengthen the planning and project preparation
units, including the data collection systems, of the
Ministry of Communications (Ports, Shipping and In-
land Water Transport Division), BIWTA and BIWTC and
to help prepare a draft medium-term investment program
for the inland water transport sector (24 man-months);
(ii)  to recommend and assist in implementing measures to
improve cargo handling operations and facilities,
cargo vessel deployment and telecommunications
(36 man-months); and
(iii)  to help prepare plans for the improvement of the accounting
systems, financial structure and management of the BIWTA and
BIWTC (30 man-months).



- 14 -
4.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at Tk 133 million (US$8.5
million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of $4.8 million. The
proposed IDA credit of US$5 million would finance about US$1.9 million equiva-
lent of equipment and materials, about US$1.5 million equivalent of spares, and
about US$0.7 million of technical assistance; and the balance is for price
contingencies. It would finance the full foreign exchange cost of equipment,
materials and spares and the full cost of proposed technical assistance or
about 59% of the total project costs. A breakdown of the estimated project
cost is summarized in the following table (see Annex 5 for project description
and cost estimates):



- 15 -
% of
Ex-
pendi-
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total ture
---- (Tk million) --- --- (US$ million) ---
(a) MOC
(i) Technical
assistance      0.9      2.5     3.4   0.06    0.16    0.22        3
(ii)  Communica-
tions equip-
ment for the
sector          7.8      4.7    12.5   0.50    0.30    0.80        9
(b) BIWTA
(i) Three mobile
cranes          3.1      4.7     7.8   0.20    0.30    0.50        5
(ii)  Cargo handling
facilities and
materials       9.4    12.5    21.9   0.60    0.80    1.40    16
(iii) Spare parts for
vessels, naviga-
tion and hydro-
graphic equip-
ment            7.8      7.8    15.6   0.50    0.50    1.00    12
(iv) Technical
assistance      1.1      2.7     3.8   0.07    0.17    0.24        3
(c)  BIWTC
(i) Equipment,
materials and
spares for
cargo fleet   15.7    23.5    39.2   1.00    1.50    2.50    30
(ii)  Technical
assistance      1.3     2.8      4.1   0.08    0.18    0.26        3
Sub-total      47.1    61.2   108.4   3.01    3.91    6.92    81
Price contingencies 11.0    13.8    24.8   0.70    0.88    1.58    19
GRAND TOTAL   58.1    75.0   133.2   3.71    4.79    8.50   100
Rate of exchange:  US$1 = Tk 15.67



- 16 -
4.04      The project costs have been based on March 1977 prices assuming
that all equipment and materials will be imported from abroad and that all
specialists for technical assistance will be recruited from abroad. Contin-
gency provision has been made envisaging price increases of 8% per annum for
both local and foreign costs, and represents about 19% of the project cost.
No provision has been made for physical contingencies since no civil works
are involved and details of equipment and spares required have still to be
finally determined. Local costs include taxes and duties, local transport
and handling, and minor installation expenditures.
C.   Execution of the Project, Procurement and Disbursement
4.05      In the implementation of the project, MOC, BIWTA and BIWTC would
need technical assistance for effecting planning, operational and financial
improvements. The technical assistance provided for in the proposed credit
would also be for advising and assisting: (i) MOC in the procurement of tele-
communications equipment; (ii) BIWTA in the procurement of necessary equipment
and materials for the improvement of cargo handling operations at inland ports;
and (iii) BIWTC in the procurement of necessary equipment and material and for
the improvement of cargo vessel scheduling and deployment. While MOC, BIWTA
and BIWTC will each be responsible for implementing its part of the project,
the former will coordinate project activities, particularly in areas such
as telecommunications and planning/project preparation extending beyond the
jurisdiction of one agency. An implementation schedule is shown in a chart
attached to this report (17395) and it has been agreed with GOB.
4.06      Up to US$3.4 million equivalent of equipment, materials and spares
to be financed by IDA will be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the
cif price of imported goods or the custom duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Out of US$1.5
million equivalent for spare parts, some critical spare parts for existing
vessels and equipment may be purchased from the original suppliers. It has
been agreed that BIWTA and BIWTC would send to IDA for its approval a detailed
list of proposed spares procurement by December 31, 1977. Procurement of
locally available imported spare parts costing less than US$5,000 per contract
may be made through normal government procurement procedures, which are satis-
factory to IDA. Such purchases would, however, be limited to US$50,000 equi-
valent in total. IDA would review contracts and related documentation for
all orders valued at US$50,000 equivalent or more.
4.07      Disbursements from the credit account would be made for (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for locally
manufactured equipment, materials and spare parts; (b) 50% of total expendi-
tures for imported spares procured locally; and (c) 100% of total expenditures
for technical assistance. Although provision has been made for financing of
100% of local expenditures for locally manufactured equipment, materials and
spares and the full cost of technical assistance, the amount of local cost
financing under the proposed credit is expected to be minimal and, in any event,
is unlikely to exceed US$0.4 million equivalent. The estimated quarterly rate
of disbursement (Table 8) is based on the assumption that the proposed Credit



- 17 -
would become effective in October 1977. It is expected that all disburse-
ments would be completed by December 31, 1979; but in order to allow time for
retention payments, the Closing Date will be June 30, 1980.
V. FINANCES
A.   BIWTA
5.01      A statement of BIWTA's Income and Expenses is shown in Table 9
covering the years 1971/72 to 1975/76 and budget figures for 1976/77. BIWTA's
balance sheet at June 30, 1976 with comparative figures for the previous year
appears in Table 10. Taken together, these two tables give no more than a
statement of the source and use of public funds. Although BIWTA operates as a
Government department, it prepares accounts in a commercial fashion. It
derives revenue from Government grants, and from miscellaneous sources such as
tolls and pilotage.
5.02      Revenue collection is slow and collection procedures are unsatis-
factory.  For example, the right of BIWTA to collect canal tolls has (with one
exception) been sold to the highest bidder. This system was started in 1975/76
because BIWTA was not receiving its proper dues through the normal collection
process. Prior to July 1, 1975, BIWTA received a one-half share of taxes
levied on fares and freight subject to a collection charge of 5% but this
source of revenue was abolished apparently as an "encouragement" to the
operators. For other sources of revenue, BIWTA has to rely on returns sent in
by the operators and the process of collection is cumbersome.
5.03      Since the ultimate beneficiaries of the services provided by BIWTA
are the users of the freight and passenger vessels it would appear to be
logical for most of BIWTA's expenses to be recovered by a straightforward
surcharge on all rates and fares which would be handed over to BIWTA. This
question has been discussed with BIWTA and included in terms of reference for
technical assistance specialists assigned to financial matters.
5.04      The balance sheet of BIWTA shows an excess of liabilities over
assets of Tk 28 million. The outstanding feature of BIWTA's financial situa-
tion is the amount owing by BIWTA to GOB. The total shown in the balance
sheet is Tk 403 million of which Tk 169 million is for foreign loans with no
adjustment in the accounts for the devaluation of the Taka. Since there is
no prospect of BIWTA being able to repay - or even pay interest on these loans,
GOB is reviewing the problem with a view to rationalizing liabilities of BIWTA.
5.05      It is highly desirable that BIWTA should adopt the practice of pre-
paring medium-term forecasts of its necessary expenditures on capital account
and on development schemes as well as medium-term forecasts of revenue and ex-
penditure and of its financial condition. This requirement has been included
in the scope of work to be carried out by consultants and referred to in
Annex 4 and para. 5.07.



- 18 -
5.06      Because of the unsatisfactory features of BIWTA's accounts and
finances, it has been agreed that GOB will prepare plans for the financial
restructuring of BIWTA, for the purpose of establishing specific financial
objectives. In preparing the plars the GOB has agreed the following actions
will be undertaken:
(a) a review of BIWTA's financial condition, including its loan
liabilities and capacity to service debt and the taking of
measures to improve BIWTA's finances;
(b) a review of and measures for improving existing accounting
systems and procedures;
(c) a study of the existing charges levied by BIWTA for its
services and measures tc* improve the system of revenue
collection; and
(d) the preparation of mediu-m-term financial forecasts.
5.07      BIWTA will require techrical assistance in the detailed work of
formulating improvements in accourting procedures, revenue collection and
financial planning and forecasting. It has been agreed that accounting special-
ists will be appointed by December 31, 1977. It has also been agreed that
GOB's plans for the financial restructuring of BIWTA will be furnished to the
Association by December 31, 1978 and implemented by June 30, 1979. The scope
of the work of the accounting specialists has been agreed with GOB as outlined
in Annex 4.
5.08      An internal audit brancd  is maintained by BIWTA; the external audit
has been the responsibility of the Government Auditor.  The audit for 1973/74
has been completed but the audit report has not yet been prepared. It has been
agreed that commencing with the year 1977/78, copies of the audited accounts
and auditors report for each fiscal year will be sent to IDA not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year. Agreement has also been reached
on a time table for completion (by June 1978) of audit reports for the years
1973/74 through 1976/77.
5.09      The portion of the proposed credit which is to be made available to
BIWTA will be passed on to BIWTA by GOB in the form of a grant or loan in
accordance with GOB's established procedures. Arrangements, satisfactory to
IDA, for making the proceeds of the credit available to BIWTA, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
BIWTC
5.10      Revenue and expenditure accounts of BIWTC from its formation in 1972
to 1975/76 are shown in Table 11. Between 1972/73 and 1975/76, gross revenues
have doubled from Tk 62 million tc Tk 127 million; expenditures have also
doubled and the net deficit has increased from Tk 10 million to Tk 24 million.
If interest on loans is excluded c slight improvement can be claimed in results



- 19 -
from operations and if depreciation is also excluded the apparent cash flow
from operations has increased from Tk 4.0 million in 1972/73 to Tk 20 million
in 1975/76.
5.11      Balance sheets of BIWTC for the years 1972 to 1976 are shown in
Table 12. The figures for 1972, 1973 and 1974 are as shown in the auditors'
reports for those years but the auditors point out that the accounts are not
true consolidated accounts; they are merely an aggregation of figures con-
tained in the accounts of the ten constituent companies. The authorized share
capital is shown at Tk 50.0 million but no shares have been issued. Balance
sheet figures for the years 1975 and 1976 are as presented by BIWTC but they
are not very reliable. On the basis of the figures presented, a statement of
"changes in Financial Condition" (Table 13) has been constructed. This
statement shows substantial increases in fixed assets during the three years
to 1975/76 but a large proportion (about Tk 56 million in 1975/76) reflects
exchange adjustments on foreign loans.
5.12      The 1976 balance sheet of BIWTC as presented in Table 12 shows ac-
cumulated losses of Tk 134.0 million. Outstanding loans are shown at Tk 537.4
million of which Tk 202.9 million is in respect of foreign currency loans
and Tk 334.5 million is for loans from GOB. A summary of outstanding loans
is shown in Table 14. Since there is very little prospect of BIWTC being in
a position to service its large loan indebtedness, a case has been put to the
Government by BIWTC for rationalization of the loan liabilities of the
corporation but so far no action has been taken.
5.13      Another feature in BIWTC's 1976 balance sheet is the figure shown
for excess of current assets over current liabilities which stands at Tk 50
million but this is unrealistic as the cash balances include Tk 33 million
on Development Fund Account.
5.14      Matters requiring attention in BIWTC's finances are the need for the
compilation of an asset register, the ascertainment of reliable traffic cost
figures to support a cost based tariff structure and the preparation of medium-
term financial forecasts which are an essential management tool. The proposed
Credit makes provision (Annex 4) for technical assistance to improve accounting
and financial planning.
5.15      It has been agreed that GOB will prepare plans for the financial
restructuring of BIWTC, for the purpose of achieving financial viability
by FY 1979/80. In preparing the plans, the GOB has agreed the following actions
will be undertaken:
(a)  a review of BIWTC's financial condition including its
loan liabilities and capacity to service debt and the
taking of measures to improve BIWTC's finances;
(b)  a review of and measures for improving existing account-
ing systems and procedures, costing and pricing policy;



- 20 -
(c) the compilation of an asset register; and
(d) the preparation of mediun-term financial forecasts.
It has been agreed that the object:ve of the above plan would be for BIWTC
to generate sufficient revenues to cover its debt service by about 1.5 times
from FY 1979/80.
5.16      Several aspects of the plan will require BIWTC to engage technical
assistance and BIWTC accepts there is a case for technical assistance in the
accounting field so long as it is directed to implementation of improvements
in procedure. It has been agreed that accounting specialists will be appointed
by December 31, 1977. It has also been agreed that GOB's plans for the finan-
cial restructuring of BIWTC will be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1978 and
implemented by June 30, 1979. The scope of the work of the accounting special-
ists has been agreed with GOB as outlined in Annex 4.
5.17      The accounts of BIWTC are audited by professional auditors but it
has been the custom to appoint them after the close of each financial year
and the preparation of audit reports is now in arrears, the most recent report
being that for the year 1973/74. A time-table has been agreed for overtaking
(by June 1978) the audit arrears and it has also been agreed that from FY
1977/78 onwards, audit reports and accounts will be forwarded to IDA within
six months of the end of each financial year. The audit reports for FYs 1972
through 1974 indicate that the standard of auditing is satisfactory.
5.18      It has been agreed that the portion of the proposed credit which is
to be made available to BIWTC for equipment, materials and spares will be re-
loaned by the Government to BIWTC on its established lending terms (the cur-
rent interest rate is 9% p.a.); the portion of the credit used for technical
assistance may be made available to BIWTC as a grant if GOB so decides.
Arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, for making the proceeds of the credit
available to BIWTC would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit.
5.19      Projections of future rexenues and expenditures are discussed in
Annex 6.
VI. PRCJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      As described in chapter II, the inland water transport sector is
important in carrying bulk commodities and substantial passenger traffic on
the country's rivers and by ferry service. It is in the interest of Bangla-
desh to improve overall performancE of the sector.  Therefore, the proposed
project has three important objectives:
(i) improvement of cargo handling efficiency;



- 21 -
(ii) preparation of investment programs and projects
in the inland water transport system and the
development of a sound data base; and
(iii)  improvement of BIWTA and BIWTC finances.
These would be achieved with the help of technical assistance and procure-
ment of various goods. If the project is not carried out, levels of service
in the sector would be liable to deteriorate further as existing equipment
would be under-utilized and overaged. Since the capacity of inland water
transport would decline, the sector would eventually have to resort to the
uneconomic measure of purchasing new equipment as an alternative to improve-
ment in operational efficiency of existing capacity.  This would lead to
higher transport costs.  The proposed project is a measure of immediate
assistance to the sector pending the further strengthening of the institutions
involved and the preparation of the necessary economic and technical justifi-
cation for a possible third inland transport project.  The proposed project
would complement on-going and forthcoming bilateral aid to the sector and
enhance overall aid utilization.
6.02      Improvement of cargo handling efficiency.  As indicated in para 3.19,
there is much scope for improvement in freight operations including the tele-
communications system in the sector, cargo handling operations, and cargo
vessel programming. Provision of technical assistance to MOC/BIWTA and addi-
tional telecommunications equipment would permit more efficient deployment
and better utilization of BIWTC and private operators' vessels by reducing
waiting time, and by ensuring that cargoes for export were routed to the
ocean ports in keeping with ocean-going ship movements. Provision of three
7/10-ton mobile cranes for BIWTA would ease port congestion at Dacca and
Khulna, which are currently hampered by a shortage of heavy lift capacity
ashore. They will improve the efficiency of unloading and loading operations
at two major inland ports at modest cost. Other major inland ports either
have sufficient crane capacity or bilateral aid is financing the procurement
of cranes. Provision of technical assistance and procurement of equipment
and material for jetty repairs and minor equipment at inland ports to improve
cargo handling operations for BIWTA would lead to more efficient loading and
unloading operations. Provision of technical assistance and procurement of
equipment, materials and spares for BIWTC's cargo fleet would assist BIWTC in
improving generally poor cargo vessel turnaround. All these provisions would
reduce cargo handling time and improve vessel and port operating efficiency,
whereby transport costs would be reduced.
6.03      Improvement in project preparation and data collection system.
Provision of technical assistance to BIWTA for the collection of basic
data such as vessel inventory, vessel operation and traffic is necessary
to assist in improving operational planning, routine investment, and foreign
exchange allocation within the inland water transport sector. Provision of
technical assistance for the preparation of a coherent investment program
taking into account potential sector capacity increase through improvements
in operational efficiency would save considerable economic resources.



- 22 -
6.04      Because of the ever-changing nature of the inland water regime
in Bangladesh, it is important fcr BIWTA to maintain up-to-date information
on channel depths and obstacles. The need to keep existing service support
vessels, hydrographic equipment and navigation aids in operation for as much
of the time as possible, is obvious. For this purpose, modest provisions for
the procurement of spare parts for hydrographic survey vessels, equipment
and navigation aids for BIWTA have been included in the proposed credit.
6.05      Improvement of BIWTA and BIWTC finances.  The provision of techni-
cal assistance and associated action plans would enable the management of
both agencies to have better information at their disposal when making deci-
sions regarding the provision of services. These are expected to lead to
significant cost savings in their expenditures. Also, the financial footing
of BIWTC would improve significantly leading eventually to a commercially
viable corporation.
6.06      Given the present poor state of the sector, operationally and
financially, the execution of the proposed project would make a significant
contribution to the sector by meeting priority requirements and by initiating
institutional improvements.  The proposed project is complementary to other
aid being provided to the sector Erom bilateral sources and should assist in
the preparation of further projects suitable for external financing. Imple-
mentation of the project will present some difficulties because of the several
institutional reforms being attempted in a relatively short time. To achieve
success it will be essential to encourage GOB to make prompt decisions on
project implementation and to arr.nge for close supervision.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
matters:
(i)  submission of a draft medium-term investment program
for the inland water transport sector (para 2.13);
(ii)  the appointment of specialists to assist:
(a) GOB in preparing a medium-term investment
program (para 2.13);
(b) in improving BIWTC's freight vessel operations,
BIWTA's cargo handling operations and the sector's
telecommunications system (para 3.20); and
(c) BIWTA and BIWTC in effecting the financial re-
structuring of both agencies (para 5.07 and 5.16);



- 23 -
(iii) submission of plans for the financial restructuring of
BIWTA and BIWTC (para 5.07 and 5.16); and
(iv) submission of the audited accounts for 1973/74 through
1976/77 of BIWTA and BIWTC (para 5.09 and 5.17).
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(i) GOB's approval of the Project Proforma for the proposed
project; and
(ii) GOB's financial arrangements for making part of the
proceeds of the credit available to BIWTA and BIWTC
(paras 5.09 and 5.18).
7.03      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5
million equivalent to GOB. The portion of the credit made available to BIWTA
and BIWTC will be passed on by GOB on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.






ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Scope of Bangladesh Transport Survey
1.        In November 1972, Economic Intelligence Unit Ltd. (EIU, UK) financed
by the Overseas Development Administration of the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office, U.K. Government was engaged to undertake a transport survey for the
purpose of recommending:
(i) a detailed transport investment program for 1974/75-
1978/79 based on the economic priorities of specific
projects;
(ii) a perspective program of transport investment for the
following ten years;
(iii) improvements of the operation, planning, organization,
administration and management of the transport sector;
(iv) improvements of Government transport policies, especially
policies for effective transport coordination; and
(v) needs for and scope of further investment studies.
2.        EIU was assisted at the later stage of its work by E.G. Frankel
International (US), financed by IDA (Credit 424-BD) on dredging studies of
inland waterways, design analysis of inland water transport barges and for a
possible deepwater port.
3.        The draft report was submitted to the Government in early 1974 and
the final in late 1974.
April 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Freight Traffic by Major Commodities
1.        Major commodities carried by the mechanized vessel are:
-    jute and jutegoods       (export)
-    fertilizer               (import and locally produced)
-    foodgrains               (import)
-    cement                   (import and locally produced)
-    paper and board          (import produced)
-    petroleum products       (locally produced)
-    boulders etc.            (local)
-    general cargo            (import)
Raw Jute
2.        Raw jute is the main export commodity of Bangladesh.  The raw jute
is carried by country boats to the pressing mills situated in the Dacca/
Narayanganj area and the Daulatpur/Khulna area where it is pressed into
bales of 400 lbs. When the jute has been sold it is sent to the ports of
Chalna and Chittagong for export. There are 4 Government jute corporations
and about 150 private parties handling jute.
3.        The Bangladesh Jute Export Corporation (BJEC) arranges, assists
and coordinates the IWT movement between source and shippers. According to
BJEC they arranged transport for about 600,000 tons per year for export,
about half of which is carried by IWT. BJEC charges Tk 2 per bale as commis-
sion (service charge). BJEC prefers to use BIWTC (as one "Government" organi-
zation to another) and BIWTC carries about 80% of the total river borne
traffic of jute, and of this, about 20% is exported via Chittagong and the
remaining 80% via Chalna.
4.        The jute is loaded into IWT craft as soon as the ETA of the ocean-
going vessel is known and taken to the port. The jute is loaded by the
shipper at a rate of 800 to 1,000 bales per 12 working hours (about 143 tons -
180 tons). The loading of jute is generally arranged in such a way that one
barge is loaded with consignments for one ship at a time. Unloading at carriers
cost is included in freight rate at the seaports at an average rate of 2,000
tons per 24 hours when working 5/63 hooks. The lack of storage space at
Chittagong and Chalna causes storage problems in the event of ship delays
in arrival at the port for loading. There is an official free storage period
of 15 days which BIWTC agreed to continue in July/August 1974. Demurrage
after this free period of Tk 1 per ton per day is to be paid by the Jute
Corporation to the carrier. An example of jute detained at Chalna for more



ANNEX 2
Page 2
than four weeks was given by the coordinator at Chalna who stated that more
than 10,000 bales (about 1,800 tons) were awaiting shipment. According to
BJEC some 5% to 10% of the total raw jute shipments via Chalna were held up
beyond the free storage period due to:
-    hold-up of scheduled mothervessel
-    higher priority given to other cargoes by TCC; and
-    draft restrictions of mothervessel entering or
leaving port
The same sort of delays are experienced at Chittagong where much time is lost
waiting for the mothervessel. However, some shed space is made available by
CPA for storage of jute while some private operators have storage space of
their own. The turnround of craft is thus heavily influenced by bottlenecks
at the seaports through lack of adequate storage space resulting in IWT craft
often being used as floating transit sheds. With more planning, the more
prompt placement of craft at the port berths could be provided. Some problems
experienced at the inland ports are:
-    slow placement of IWT craft at point of loading;
-    slow movement of craft to destination;
-    jute loading ghats are rather shallow alongside
which poses problems for placement of coasters;
and
-    many barges are not maintained to a reasonable
standard and repairs are sometimes carried out
during loading or during the trip to the desti-
nation.
Freight rates as agreed between Jute Department and BIWTC in a meeting held
in January 1976 were not based on ton/miles. Rates as agreed were:
Commodity           From:           To:          Rate:
Jute                Dacca           Chalna
(pucca bale)       Narayanganj/   Chittagong   60.61
- do -             Khulna          Chalna        32.61
Daulatpur       Chalna        32.61



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Jute Goods
5.        Manufactured jute goods such as carpet backing and gunnies are
subject to the same problems as raw jute. The freight rates are as follows:
Commodity           From:              To:           Rate:
Gunnies             Dacca              Chalna        65.60
Narayanganj/       Chittagong
Chandpur
- do -              Ghorasal           Chalna        67.60
Narsingdi          Chittagong
Bhairab Bazaar
- do -              Daulatpur          Chalna        28.60
Fertilizer
6.        There are two distinct movements in respect of fertilizer viz.,
imported fertilizer via the seaports and area distribution from the Ghorasal
factory to inland destinations. The Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation (BADC) is the responsible Authority and prepares movement programs
based on schedules of shipments and arrival of agricultural inputs for the
coming 3 months. The movement is divided amongst IWT, Road and Rail on an
arbitrary basis of 1/3 each. For imported (bagged) fertilizer two coasters
have been time-chartered from BIW'CC at a rate of Tk 5.50 per ton per day as
of January 1976. BIWTC has a contract to carry 900 tons per day to 13
destinations of which 3 are situared at Narayanganj. The total movement by
BIWTC craft is about 328,500 tons per year. The BIWTC has to guarantee a
static capacity of 9,000 tons. During 1974 the BADC paid Tk 40,000 to BIWTC as
demurrage. For 1975/76 no demurrage had been paid according to BADC, nor had
BIWTC paid any dispatch money. BADC says that there is a general shortage of
unloading points and storage space. The movement from Chittagong is based
on carriage by coasters at 1,500 tons per month per coaster as standard car-
riage on a turnround of 2-1/2 times per month.
7.        The expected quantities of imports are:
Chittagong           Chalna
March 1976             52,368               37,000
April 1976             36,424               13,634
May 1976               22,817               12,100



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Expected movement by IWT:
TSP factory
Chittagong    Khulna    Chorasal    Chittagong    Fenchuganj
March        12,333        2,536
April         5,878        2,679     10,000         3,000
May           5,700        2,071
The vessel requirements are allocated at the TCC meetings. BIWTC operates 50
barges of between 250 and 400 tons capacity for the movement of fertilizer
from Ghorasal; 10% are continually under repair, so that 45 barges with a
total static capacity of 12,000 tons are continuously tied up for the contract.
From Ghorasal to Narayanganj BIWTC operates 4 inland tugs, 2 each of 530 HP
and 245 HP, which tow 4 and 2 barges respectively. From Ghorasal to other
destinations 2 mainline tugs are used which tow 8 to 9 flats or barges up to
3,000 tons carrying capacity. About 40,000 of the urea produced at Ghorasal
is towed to Khulna.
Foodgrains
8.        Movement of foodgrains is organized by the Directorate of Movement
and Storage of the Food Department. Foodgrains are imported via Chalna and
Chittagong and consist mainly of bagged rice and bulk wheat.
9.        The movement of foodgrains does not follow any particular pattern
as the flow of inland destinations is dictated by a need in a particular
port of the country. Movement by Road, Rail and River is summarized below:
(a) From Chittagong port/Silo/Central Storage Depot (CSD)
to:  Rajshahi Division             by Rail
Chittagong Division           by Rail and Road
Dacca Division                by Rail and River
(b) From Chalna/Khulna
to:  Rajsahi Division              by Rail
Khulna Division               by Rail, Road, River
Faridpur                      by Rail and River
(c) From Narayanganj Silo
to:  Rangpur                       by Rail
Dacca                         by Road and River
Tangail                       by Road
(d)  From Ashunganj Silo                by Rail and River
to:  Mymensingh                    by Rail and River
Comilla                       by Road and River



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Out of t;le >Vtal movement in a particular period the movement by Rail, Road
and River is respectively 34%, 43% and 23%. The stock of the Narayanganj
Silo comes from Chittagong port, Outer Anchorage or Silo and has been
carried by coasters as from March 1, 1976, since the contract with the
minibulkers ceased on that date, The movement of foodgrains from Chittagong
to inland destinations (Silos and CSDs) was entirely taken over by IWT
coasters. The program was designed to carry a minimum of 45,000 tons per
month to Dacca/Narayanganj, and is to be realized by 12 coasters supplied
by BIWTC and 6 from private operators on an average turnround of 2-1/2 per
month.
10.       Sealing and preparing documents often takes up much time and
causes many vessels to lose the tide for crossing the Bay (i.e. Sandwip
Shoals), where there is a depth restriction. The loading times seem
reasonable, about 90-100 tons pEr hour for bulk wheat and an average of
about 250 tons per 16 hours from vessels alongside. The unloading of
foodgrains from coasters seems adequate. However, the unloading of bulk
foodgrains from barges is an unreasonably slow process. It was observed
that the discharge of 250 tons of bulk wheat at Barisal and Khulna often
takes 5 to 6 days working 10 to 12 hours per day.
11.       At Chittagong foodgrains from the large bulk vessels are lightered
by coasters supplied by the Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC), an opera-
tion previously carried out by the minibulkers. The cost of lighterage
depends on the type of contract, for example, when the carriage is done on
"gross terms" then the discharging costs are borne by the vessel, while
"free stowed" terms mean that the discharge costs are to borne by the
receiving party. Bulk wheat is discharged by means of CPA vacuvators
which are placed on the deck of the mother vessel. The rate of discharge
is about 1,500 tons per day.
12.       Out of the total cargo destined for Chittagong, about 40-50% is
lightered. During the year, about 34 days of unworkable weather are exper-
ienced at the Outer Anchorage. The costs of minibulkers was $1,700 per day
plus fuel costs. The actual costs of lighterage by mini's came to about
$8.50 per ton due to the fact that mini's were earning freight by carrying
other cargoes. This meant that, although the total costs of the mini opera-
tions were borne by the Food Department, a substantial part of the costs
were recovered by them. It was learned that BSC has very recently bought
two used vessels for lighterage, each of about 10,000 DWT at a cost of
$2,000,000 and $1,700,000 respectively. The interest rate charged would
be 9%. The remaining lifetime would be about 5 years.
Bulk Oil
13.       Bulk oil arrives at Chittagong in tankers usually from the
Middle East. The oil is then lightered to the refinery whence it is
distributed by coasters to inlandi destinations. An average turnround
of a coastal tanker from Chittagong to Khulna is about 6 days; average



ANNEX 2
Page 6
carrying capacity is 850 tons. For the Chittagong-Narayanganj run, the turn-
round takes about 3-1/2 days for 850 tons.
Other Cargoes
14.       Coal is mainly imported from India.  The coal carried to inland
destinations is usually unloaded at coal dumps along the river and needs no
particular facilities. Other bulky commodities are also unloaded at dumps
along the riverbanks. General cargo will always have to be discharged at
proper facilities. POL could be partly discharged in drums as general
cargo.
May 1976



ANNEX 3
Page I
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Typical Breakdown of Time Taken for Operations
1.        BIWTC coaster - bay crossing
Average distance between ports                  200 miles
Average turnaround per round trip                33 days
Average tonnage hauled in 1975: 9,000 tons per coaster
Average days:  Sailing                          14% =  51 days
Loading/unloading               47% = 171 days
Awaiting loanding/
unloading                     24% =  88 days
Survey/Repair                   15% =  55 days
2.   Bay crossing flats and barges (actual)
From Narayanganj to Chittagong loaded with jute, av. 400 tons
Distance: 181 miles
Turnround:  (no backhaul from Chittagong)    30 days
Number of turnrounds per year: 12
Av. carrying capacity: 4,800 tons per year
Breakdown:      Sailing                         17%
Awaiting load/unl.              17%
Load/unl.                       23%
Awaiting tow                    43%
Allowance is made for maintenance and repair
3.   Bay crossing tugs
From Chittagong to Narayanganj
Distance: 181 miles
Turnround: 6 days
Number of turnrounds per year: 55
Average load per roundtrip: 1,600 tons
Breakdown:      Sailing                         75%
Awaiting tow                    25%



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        Inland barges
From Ghorasal to Narayanganj, fertilizer, av. 250 tons, no backhaul
Distance: 31 miles
Turnround: 13 days (no backhaul)
Number of turnrounds per year: 27
Average carrying capacity per year: 6,750 tons
Breakdown:      Sailing                   14%
Awaiting loading/
unloading              42%
Loading/unloading        28%
Awaiting tow              16%
From Ghorasal to Khulna, fertilizer, av. 300 tons, no backhaul
Distance: 243 miles
Turnround: 24 days
Number of turnrounds per year: 15
Average carrying capacity per year: 4,500 tons
Breakdown:      Sailing                  42%
Awaiting loading/
unloading              18%
Loading/unloading         15%
Awaiting tow             25%
From Ghorasal to Barisal, fertilizer, av. 250 tons, no backhaul
Distance: 128 miles
Turnround: 23 days
Number of turnrounds per year: 3,500 tons
Breakdown:      Sailing                  28%
Awaiting loading/
unloading              28%
Loading/unloading         16%
Awaiting tow             28%
5.        Mainline tug
From Narayanganj to Khulna
Distance: 212 miles
Turnround: 9 days
Number of turnrounds per year: 37
Averge towage capacity: 75,000 tons
Breakdown:      Sailing                  84%
Awaiting tow              16%
Allowance is made for 32 days for maintenance, survey, repair
Sources: BIWTC and Bank staff
May 1976



ANNEX 4
Page I
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Draft Scope of Proposed Technical Assistance for MOC,
BIWTA and BIWTC and Estimate of Man-Months
I. Objectives
1.        The objectives of the Specialists Services are to assist GOB in
improving the efficiency of the inland water transport sector, including
the operations and finances of BIWTA and BIWTC and in preparing a medium-
term investment program for the sector and specific projects for possible
further external financing. Specifically, technical assistance will consist
of three areas:
(a)  improvements in MOC's management information system,
BIWTA's data collection system, and planning and
project preparation in the inland water transport
system;
(b)  improvements in cargo handling operations and BIWTC's
fleet programming; and
(c)  introduction of techniques to improve financial and
accounting systems and procedures, budgetary controls
and long-term financial planning.
II. Scope of Specialists Services
A.   General
2.        In the conduct of this work, the Specialists shall cooperate fully
with GOB; BIWTA and BIWTC all of whom for this purpose have undertaken to
assign counterpart personnel to work with the Specialists and to provide
the necessary data, services and facilities; the Specialists shall be solely
responsible, however, for the analysis and interpretation of all data received
and for their findings, conclusions and recommendations.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
B.   Services
Planning/Project Preparation
3.        Specialists will be engaged to assist:
(i) the Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport
Division of the Ministry of Communications (MOC)
in preparing a medium-term investment program for
the inland water transport sector and identifying
specific projects for the sector;
(ii) the Division, BIWTA and BIWTC in developing a proce-
dure and institutional arrangement for collection,
analysis and compilation of information and data,
including cargo/passenger movement, vessel inventory
and operation, inland ports operation, on a regular
and continuous basis;
(iii) the Division, BIWTA and BIWTC in establishing a
system of effective and continuous monitoring
projects; and
(iv) the Division, BIWTA and BIWTC in preparing manpower
planning and training program for their Planning
units.
4.        To these ends, the specialists will review the present management
information system within the Division and BIWTA and recommend measures to
improve the system with a view to facilitating routine, but rational invest-
ment and operational analysis, which is required to be carried out by the
Planning Cell in the Division and in BIWTA. The specialists will also assist
the Planning Cell in the Division in preparing a program for rehabilitation
and development of major inland waterways, cargo handling facilities for major
bulk commodities at major inland ports and at Chittagong and Chalna ports,
as well as passenger terminals. The specialists will also be required to
prepare a program for the rehabilitation and/or replacement of the vessels
in BIWTC's fleet. The consolidated program of rehabilitation will show
relative priorities and a realistic time phased allocation of proposed medium-
term investments. Also in order to improve the quality of the Planning Cells,
the specialists will advise MOC on manpower planning and training programs.
5.        In performing the duties described in para 3 above, the specialists
will take into consideration the conclusions drawn and recommendations given by
other specialists engaged in improving the operation of inland water transport
under the proposed credit and also the various items of bilateral aid. Also,
specialists will review all available data and reports related to the inland
water transport sector.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
6.        It is estimated that the total man-months required would be about
24; 18 for the Division and 6 for BIWTA. The required manpower would be
two transport economists and one naval architect.
Operations
7.        In order to improve overall efficiency of the inland water trans-
port sector, specialists will be engaged to assist:
(i) BIWTA in improving cargo handling efficiency;
(ii) BIWTC in improving cargo fleet scheduling and
deployment; and
(iii) MOC/BIWTA in studying telecommunications require-
ments for the sector as a whole.
8.        Specialists will advise and give assistance to MOC, BIWTA and BIWTC
in the following fields through:
Cargo handling efficien,-y (BIWTA)
(i) review and analysis of the existing port facilities (jetties,
godowns and associated infrastructures) and their present
capacity for cargo handLing at the country's inland ports
particularly at Dacca/Narayanganj, Khulna, Chandpur and
Barisal for the major commodities (foodgrains, fertilizer,
POL, cement and coal). Cognizance will also be taken of
facilities at other ports where relevant;
(ii)  review and analysis of existing cargo handling methods and
techniques used for loading and unloading of cargo at such
port facilities including existing contractual arrangements
with stevedores;
(iii) summarizing the means by which the efficiency of cargo
handling may be improvecd generally and making specific
recommendations (including outline specifications where
necessary) for modifying existing equipment and/or facil-
ities as are desirable to meet the required throughput
of cargo in line with the country's short-term and medium-
term needs.
(iv) advising upon the procurement of facilities and materials
provided under the propcsed credit, for improving the effi-
ciency of cargo handling, storage and lighting for night
working at ports;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(v) to assist in implementing such improvements and recom-
mendations as approved during the currency of the
contract.
Vessel operations (BIWTC)
(vi) review and analysis of the present system of fleet
scheduling, deployment and utilization for cargo
transportation including barge operations and towage;
(vii)  examination of the present system of scheduling vessels
for maintenance taking into account time lost due to
maintenance and breakdown;
(viii)  liaison with the cargo handling and telecommunications
specialists to determine the areas where vessel utili-
zation may be improved;
(ix) review of the size and age of the present fleet in
association with the cargo handling specialists to
determine which of the vessels are:
(a) presently economic to continue to operate;
(b) uneconomic to operate; and
(c) recommend action to be taken in respect of
each vessel;
(x) arising from and concurrently with (viii) and (ix) above,
review of the size of the present fleet to determine the
optimum and economic size of the fleet for short and esti-
mated medium-term demands in relation to the capacity of
the private sector and the needs of the sector as a whole
(including outline specifications for replacement vessels
where recommended);
(xi) recommendations based upon the foregoing reviews, for an
overall operational system of vessel scheduling to cater
for the varying demands upon the fleet and to promote
working to optimum efficiency and minimum operating costs;
(xii) concurrently with the foregoing studies, assist in imple-
menting approved recommendations;



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Telecommunications (MOC/BIWTA)
(xiii)  review of existing shore installations operated by
BIWTA, BIWTC, BTTG and also CPA, CPD and the private
sector to ascertain type, range, condition, utiliza-
tion, spares position, likely useful life and suit-
ability, and associated existing shipboard telecom-
munications sets;
(xiv) ascertaining present extent of coordination between
the separate systems (including the private sector and
other transportation systems handling traffic fed into
or received from IWT) and their intercompatibility,
and drawing up an outline plan for an overall tele-
communications network for the inland water sector of
Bangladesh preferably with centralized control based
at BIWTA HQ in Dacca;
(xv) examine present availability of spare parts for main-
taining existing telecommunications sets and define
where there are deficiencies.
(xvi)  further to (xiv) above, drawing up a list of additional
equipment considered necessary for improving the short-
term working efficiency of the sector as a whole (includ-
ing outline specifications and spare parts holding);
(xvii)  assist concurrently with the above with the reorganiza-
tion of the sector telecommunications system while ensur-
ing that the necessary communications links are main-
tained during the change-over period.
9.        In performing the duties described above, the specialists will take
into consideration conclusions and recommendations given by other specialists
provided under the proposed credit and various bilateral aids. Also, the
operations specialists will review all available data and reports related
to the inland water transport sector. It is estimated that the total man-
months required would be about 36; 12 for cargo handling, 14 for vessel sched-
uling and deployment and 10 for telecommunications.
Finances
10.       The technical assistance work will include:
(i) an examination of the present method of accounting for
BIWTA's recurring revenues and expenditures on revenue
account and a definition of whether the annual accounts
should be accounts of (EL) receipts and payments or (b)
income and expenditure c,n an accrual basis; the special-
ists should also recommend what measures need to be
taken to introduce the recommended method;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(ii)  a study of the existing charges levied by BIWTA taking
into consideration the existing statutes and the formu-
lation of procedures for simplifying the billing and
collection of charges, in addition a study of the exist-
ing revenue earning units and the making of recommenda-
tions for improving the system of revenue collection;
(iii)  a study of the different types of activities performed
by the Authority and recommending appropriate methods
of financing such activities;
(iv)  an examination of the financial condition of BIWTA, in-
cluding its loan liabilities and an assessment of the
ability of BIWTA to service its debt; the specialists
will also recommend measures for improving the financial
structure of BIWTA;
(v)  an examination of BIWTA's balance sheet, including
specifically the treatment of capital and development
expenditures, receivables, payables and inventories,
the making of recommendations as to what, if any,
changes are needed;
(vi)  the preparation of medium-term financial forecasts show-
ing likely expenditures on capital account, classified
according to priority; preparation of revenue and expen-
diture forecasts and balance sheets (or their equivalents)
and forecasts of cash requirements and sources of funds;
(vii)  a review of the existing system of stores (inventory) pro-
curement and stores accounting and recommending measures
for improvement;
(viii)  a review of the present system of internal audit and
recommending measures for improving the system; and
(ix)  the formulation of appropriate systems of recording
assets and liabilities of BIWTA.
BIWTC
(i) an examination of the whole of BIWTC's accounting
procedures and systems including those for cash
receipts and payments, billing, receivables and
payables, and the making of recommendations which
will enable BIWTC to improve in particular the system
of obtaining monthly accounts from out-stations and
to have effective budgetary control and promptly to



ANNEX 4
Page 7
prepare accounts for management information; the work
should also include a review of present operations in
machine accounting and make recommendations for optimum
utilization of the machines;
(ii)  a review of the systems of stores procurement and of
controlling stores accoulnts and recommending improve-
ments;
(iii)  an examination of present cost accounting records
classified either according to vessels, or groups of
vessels, such as passenger and cargo vessels; the
making of recommendations for the determination and
maintenance of vessel-wise, route-wise and commodity
wise costs and earnings with a view to assisting the
management in its pricing policy;
(iv)  assistance to BIWTC in the compilation of an asset
register, review of asset values, and the calculation
of depreciation charges;
(v)   an examination of the financial condition of BIWTC,
including the share and other capital shown in BIWTC's
balance sheet, as well aLS its loan liabilities and an
assessment of the abilit.y of BIWTC to service its debt;
the specialists will recommend measures for improving
the financial structure of BIWTC. The objective for
such measures should be to ensure that BIWTC will be
able to generate cash from its own resources sufficient
to cover debt service payments by about 1.5 times; and
(vi)  the preparation of medium-term financial forecasts (in-
cluding revenue and expenditure accounts, cash flows,
and balance sheets) and investment programs, classified
according to priority.
11.       It is estimated that the total man-months required would be about
30; 12 for BIWTA and 18 for BIWTC. The specialists would be required to
assist BIWTA and BIWTC in preparing medium-term financial forecasts taking
account of the recommendations and findings of operations and planning
specialists provided under the proposed credit.
June 1977



ANNEX 5
Page I
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Description and Cost Estimates
A.   Project Description
1.        The proposed project is to improve the overall efficiency of the
inland water transport system and consists of the following:
Part A:
The acquisition and utilization of equipment and
materials for cargo vessels and for the improvement of
the telecommunications system and of cargo handling opera-
tions and facilities, including mobile cranes for use on
river-side jetties at Dacca and Khulna.
Part B:
The improvement of the efficiency of existing vessels of
BIWTC and BIWTA and navigation and hydrographic equipment of
BIWTA through provision of spare parts.
Part C.
The utilization of technical services: (i) the strength-
ening of the planning and project preparation units, including
the data collection systems, in the Ports Shipping and Inland
Water Transport Division of the Borrower's Ministry of Commun-
ications, BIWTA and BIWTC; preparation of a draft medium-term
investment program for the inland water transport sector; and
assessing the need for additional equipment for the telecom-
munications systems; (ii) the preparation of a plan for the
improvement of BIWTA's accounting system, financial structure
and management; and the improvement of cargo handling and
facilities; and (iii) the preparation of a plan for the
improvement of BIWTC's accounting system, financial structure
and management; and the improvement of cargo vessel deployment.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
B.   Cost Estimates
Telecommunications Equipment (MOC/BIWTA)
2.        It has been estimated that the credit proceeds would be used for
imported telecommunication equipment, e.g. SSB and VHF sets, to improve the
existing telecommunications network for the inland water transport sector.
Precise cost and types of equipment will not be available until after the
detailed analysis to be financed by the proposed credit. However, the total
foreign exchange cost has been estimated on the basis of BIWTA's study dated
September 1976.
3.        The specialist's review of the existing system is expected to be
completed by June 1978 and necessary equipment will be procured by September
1978. Estimated costs are:
US$ million
Technical assistance (LO man-months)                 0.08
Telecommunications equipment                         0.30
Total                                    0.38
Since the study will cover areas wider than BIWTA's jurisdiction, MOC should
retain the specialist but BIWTA should play a role of coordinating agency for
procurement of equipment.
Improvement in Investment Planning and Projects Preparation
4.        The underlying assumptions are that the proposed technical assistance
would be required for 18 man-mont:hs and that it would cost about US$0.14 million.
Specialists should be retained by the Planning Cell of the Ports, Shipping and
Inland Water Transport Division of MOC.
Three Mobile Cranes (BIWTA)
5.        BIWTA is to procure three cranes; two for Dacca and one for Khulna
ports. The cranes will have 7/10-ton capacity. The total foreign exchange
requirement is estimated at US$0.3 million.
Cargo Handling Operation (BIWTA)
6.        It has been estimated that the credit proceeds would be used for
imported equipment and materials, e.g. vacuators and materials for jetty
repairs to improve cargo handling operations. Precise cost and types of
equipment as well as materials are not available until after the detailed
analysis of the current operatiorL by specialists to be financed by the credit.
The foreign exchange cost has been estimated on the basis of discussions
with BIWTA. Specialists will also recommend and assist in the implementation
of measures to improve cargo handling operations.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        The specialist's review on the existing cargo handling operation
is expected to be completed by September 1978 and necessary equipment and
materials will be procured by December 1979. Estimated costs are:
US$ million
Technical assistance (12 man-months)                 0.10
Equipment and materials                              0.80
Total                                0.90
Spare Parts for Vessels, Navigation and Hydrographic Equipment (BIWTA)
8.        Cost breakdown is as follows:
US$ million
Spare parts for vessels                               0.30
Spare parts for navigation aids                       0.10
Spare parts for hydrographic equipment                0.10
Total                                0.50
Improvements in Data Collection System and Finances (BIWTA)
9.        Cost breakdown is as follows:
US$ million
Technical assistance for data collection            )
and system (6 man-months)                          0.14
Technical assistance for finances (12 man-          )
months)                                          )
Equipment, Materials and Spares for Cargo Fleet (BIWTC)
10.       It is estimated that imported equipment, materials and spares for
BIWTC cargo fleet for the coming two years would amount to about US$1.5
million equivalent. Precise cost and types of equipment as well as materials
are not available until after the detailed analysis of the current fleet
operation by a specialist to be financed by the credit. The foreign exchange
cost has been provided on the basis of discussions with BIWTC. Specialists
will also recommend and assist in the implementation of measures to improve
vessel scheduling and deployment.
11.       The specialist's review of the existing fleet operation is expected
to be completed by June 1978 and necessary equipment and materials will be
procured by September 1979. Estimated costs are:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
US$ million
Equipment, materials and spares for cargo
vessels                                            1.50
Technical assistance (14 man-months)                 0.12
Total                                    1.62
Improvements in Finances (BIWTC)
12.       It is estimated that technical assistance for the above would
require 18 man-months and cost US$0.14 million equivalent.
June 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Financial Projections
1.        An attempt has been made by IDA staff to project income and expen-
diture figures up to the year 1980/81 and the results are shown in Table 11.
The base year for the projections is 1975/76 but the figures for that year
as supplied by BIWTC were preliminary only and unsupported by any details or
breakdown of the figures showing the effect of tariff increases, changes in
the volume or mix of traffic and the effect of increases in labor and other
costs. In the past there have usually been substantial differences between
provisional figures and the figures produced in audited accounts.
2.        Because of the limitation mentioned in the preceding paragraph,
the projections of revenue and expenditure should be treated with some
reserve. On the revenue side, a growth in traffic volume from the 1975/76
level of about 5% p.a. has been assumed and on the expenditure side the
figures are the best judgments of IDA staff after taking account of the fact
that budget estimates for 1976/77 appear unrealistically low. In making
these estimates, provision has been made for a 10% annual inflation of
operating costs and it has been assumed that working expenses will be 50%
variable with traffic volume. Provision has also been made for modest
increases in interest and depreciation. On the revenue side the estimates
make provision for a 10% annual increase in tariffs from 1977/78 onwards.
It was considered that such increases are about the most one could reasonably
expect but in spite of such increases there would be a deficit of Tk 33.0
million even in 1980/81. However, if steps are taken to reduce loan indebted-
ness the situation will be much better and it is also possible that the depre-
ciation estimates may be too high, because the values attributed to fixed
assets may be unrealistically high. It is expected that the project will
achieve improvements in operational efficiency which will result in some
improvement in net revenue but the forecasts have not taken these factors
into account. The net results of the forecasts may be summarized as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 2
1975/76       11976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
Preliminary  Budget    -------- forecast ---------
figures       _-
Taka (millions)
Gross Revenue      127.7           L56.3     138.0    159.0        183.0      211.0
Working Expenses  108.4            92.8      126.0    141.0        159.0      178.0
Interest Charges   21.7            33.5       32.0      34.0        36.0       38.0
Depreciation        21.4           25.6       22.0      24.0        26.0       28.0
Surplus (Deficit) (23.8)            4.4/a   (42.0)   (40.0)        (38.0)    (33.0)
/a   IDA staff estimates for 1976/77 are:
Gross Revenue           115.0
Expenditure            165.0
Deficit                 (50.0)
3.        It is realized that the financial forecasts are not satisfactory and
not very reliable and it is for these reasons that the financial plan referred
to in para 5.15, has been requested. In discussing BIWTC's finances no mention
has so far been made of future investments. At present, no plan worthy of the
name exists. In drawing up the financial plan financial specialists will
assist in making a proper appraisal of investment needs.
April 1977



TABLE 1
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
BTS Traffic Data
(in 000' tons)
Summary of Inter-District Freight Movements by Principal Commodities
in 1972/73
Road              Rail           Inland Water         Total
Foodgrains             572               669                  2,308          3,549
Fertilizer              55                94                    148            297
Cement                  76                49                    205            330
Jute                   271               332                    813          1,416
Coal                     8                13                    130            151
POL                    123               131                    604            858
Other                  164               201                    361            810
TOTAL                1,269             1,489                  4,653          7,411
Source: BTS
February 1977



TABLE 2
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure, :Dolling Stock and Equipment in 1975
I. Road Transport
a. Road
2,700 miles of all-weather roads
1,500 miles of fair-weather roads
b. Motor Vehicles
Registered
Passenger Cars                23,947
Taxis                          1,625
Buses                          8,605
Trucks                        17,507
Jeeps                          8,357
Sub-total               60,042
Motorcycles and others        36,842
Auto-rickshaws                13,297
Grand total            110,180
II. Railways
BG          MG          Total
Number of Stations         161          314           475
Route-miles               599        1,187         1,786
Locomotives
Steam                115          203           318
Diesel                32          141           173
Passenger Coaches          324         884         1,208
Freight Wagons          4,152       11,474        15,626
III. Aviation Fleet
8 F-27
3 Boeing 707
IV. Ocean Fleet
4 Coasters (1,600 - 1,800 dwt)
3  Dry cargo vessels (7,000 - 9,999 dwt)
9  Dry cargo vessels (10,000 - 15,000 dwt)
Source: Ministry of Communications
April 1977



BANGLADESH                                TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimates of Development Investments in the Transport Sector
(in Takas million)
1972-73           1973-74             1974-75             1975-76
Name of Agency             Total    F.E.    Total        F.E.    Total      F.E.    Total   F.E.
1.  Chittagong Port Trust    22.8        n.a.    53.5       35.1      47.8      26.4      92.7   22.3
2.  Chalna                     31.0      n.a.    36.4       16.0      46.7      25.3      84.7   19.1
3.  Bangladesh Inland
Water Transport
Authority                  57.5      n.a.    72.1       35.7      82.8      35.5    101.3   25.6
4.  Bangladesh Inland
Water Transport
Corporation                15.2      n.a.    77.6      58.1    105.9       37.2    145.3   70.8
5.  Bangladesh Shipping
Corporation                25.3      n.a.    26.6       26.4     34.5      33.5    178.8  161.3
6.  Mercantile Marine
Department                  3.2      n.a.      nil       nil
7.  Mercantile Marine                                                   2.5      0.9       0.7    0.5
Academy                     1.2      n.a.      1.5       0.9
8.  Bangladesh Railway        333.0      n.a.   386.6    254.4    197.7    106.0    319.7  184.9
9.  Roads & Highways          172.9      n.a.   201.0       95.4    195.0       90.2    324.9   93.0
10.  Bangladesh Roads
Transport Corp.            38.8      n.a.    28.5        2.5     25.9        3.3     73.4   23.8
11.  Bangladesh Biman           49.0      n.a.    92.5       88.3      16.3       7.6      57.9   42.0
12.  Civil Aviation             44.1      n.a.    21.7        8.3      55.9      22.8      83.3   18.5
13.  Transport Survey            0.8      n.a.      7.7       6.4       1.4       0.6       0.5    nil
Totals:        794.8      n.a. 1,005.7    627.5    812.4    389.3  1,463.2  661.8
Source:   Planning Commission



TABLE 4
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
BIWTC FLEET
Type                 Total      Number       Static Capacity            Condition
1973       1976            1976          Good Moderate Fair Bad
Bay crossing                                                (DWT)
Cargo coaster                     23         24           18,258            6       6      12   -
Oil tanker                        14         16           16,862            5       8       3   -
Flats and barge                   45         63           36,048           35       3      25   -
Tug                                5          8             n.a.            6       -       2   -
87       IL1l           71,168           52      17      42   -
Inland
Flat barges, jute cargo boats 402          376           104,777           87    147    131  11
Tugs                              38        54              n.a.           12       8      29   5
Harbour launches                  31         36             n.a.           10       1      22   3
Self-propelled barges              6        12             3,318            2       -       8   2
477        478          108,095          111    156    190  21
Total cargo                   564       '589          179,263           163    173    232  21
Passenger vessels
Steamers                         -          19                              1       4      14   -
Ferries                          -           17                             8       1       8   -
-          36                             9       5      22-
TOTAL VESSELS             564        625                            172    178    254  21
Note:      The descriptions "Good, "Moderate", "Fair" and "Bad" are BIWTC's own
classification and are:
Good - A vessel of recent construction, or one which regardless of age,
has had recent extensive repairs or renewals. BIWTC consider
that vessels in this category should be capable of operating for
a further 10 years under normal service conditions, without
extensive repair;
Moderate - A vessel that is still capable of operating for a further 3 to
5 years without extensive repair;
Fair - A vessel which because of its present condition will shortly
require extensive repair; and
Bad - Beyond economic repair.



TABLE 4
Page 2
BIWTC consider 163 cargo vessels (28%) are in good condition, and 173
vessels (29%) are considered to be in a condition as will probably
require extensive repairs in from 3 to 5 years time. Of the remainder,
232 (39%) will shortly require extensive repairs and 21 (4%) are beyond
economic repair. 14 of the 19 passenger steamers (approximately 74
percent) are classed as "Bad". An examination of a number of the BIWTC
vessels in service and undergoing repair at time of the appraisal indicated
that their condition compared reasonably with the BIWTC assessment.
During 1976 following the GOB decision to divest some of the older BIWTC
vessels, a total of 119 vessels comprising 101 inland barges and flats, 15
inland tugs, 2 bay crossing tugs and 1 inland passenger vessel with a total
static capacity about 20,600 tons had been disposed of mainly as scrap.
Source: BIWTC
April 1977



Table 5
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
PRIVATE FLEET
Type of vessel                        Number        Capacity
Passenger
Single Decker                            576         65,575 (passengers)
Double decker                            39          11.828 (passengers)
Total                                 615          77,403 (passengers)
Cargo sector (including tugs)
Self-propelled                          203           28,152 (tons capacity)
Dumb barges/flats                       493         100,241 (tons capacity)
Total                                 696         128,393 (tons capacity)
Grand total                         1.311
Source: BIWTA
February 1977



AIYUAIMI Of A g=OI  INL.ANI).VMj_IM8 T AJj rwv                                                 TABLE  6
(Unit:   '000)               _ _ _ _ _ _                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Omodity      Main ftorrte                     ~~~~~~~~~~Av.      PlflI.LI-                            P111 AITE                            MI  O
F ron             ~~~            ~~~To  'as.  oo           oou I.                 tons           to/.t les             ton.            ohn 
I. Ju,te           Oco8ry,bn                  Chttt.gont,         183       15.0           2, 745               17.7              3,239               32 .7           5,98
Dao.t p      uthln.      -Cfi,ttt.gong        263        1.1              2 9                                                       1.1              289
D.ct./NC.t.y.ng.j        -Ch,lo.               185      71.6           13,246                19.1             3.533               910.7           16.779
Deu :t prI.../hlns       -h CIna                23      75.8            2,501                31.1              1,033             107.1             3.S34
Dao.Latp'-t              - K8.8Y.nBnj         211       0o.3.-             65                  -                 .                  0.3                65
TOTrAL Jirr                                    163.8          18,846                68.1              7,805              231.9           26,651
2. Manufact.red   Oc.Wry.gn                 -   Itan              183        0.8           1,976                 5.5                970               16.1             2,946
jute SOWS.   Ulcc./N.r.ayngsnj          -Chutn.               185      39.9            7,381                10.5              1,943               50.4            9,324
tl..oltpurIXh.l..          Cho lna             33       59.2            1,954                12.8                422              72.0             2,376
chorasal                 -Ch.in.              21L3      12.3            2,620                  -                 -12.3                             2,620
lot .H,Itrtlnt                                 140        -               .                  29.8             4.172               29.8              4,172
TOTAL .ruT  GOCOS                              122.2          13,931                58.4              7,507              160.6           21,438
3. Irtitimar     ChittaSson                -  a,ca/Narayn,,gAnI 183        9.0            1,647                20.5             3,732               29.5             5,399
Chitt.a-gon                Khlna              260         -               -                   0.6                136               0.6                156
ChaItt                   - hriln*               30         -              -                  25.5                765              25.5                765
Gh.rs.1a                 -   ,ltla           243        1.0              243                 4.4       ~      1,069               5.4              1,312
th.or..I                   Narayanganj         31        1.1               34                  -                 -                  1.1                34
Ch.m.&sl                   Dscca               53        9.2              488                                    -                 9.2.              488
Chora..L                 - l..ls.             128        0.6               77                  -                 -                 0.6                 77
Ch.oras.l                -Chandpur             66        0.4               26                  -                 -                 0.4                 26
Interdistrict                                 140         -               -11.2                                1.368              11.2              1.568
TOTAL FIRTIUIZER                               21.3            2,515                62.2              7,310              83.5             9,825
4. foodgraio.      Chittagong                D- O ./N.rayangs"j 183        102.7          18,794                38.3              7,009              141.0            25,803
Chittagong                 B farisal          t58         -                                   0.3             .47                   0.3                47
Chaon                      83uhina             30      1221.7           3,681                67.9             2,037              190.6             5,718
Chain l                    Ilarayanganj        182     142.7          25,971             .     -                 -               142.7            25,971
Chatna                   -farldpur             138        -                                   3.7                511                3:7               511
Chain                    -lBarisLal            110        -               -6.2                                   682               6.2               682
I.tardistrict                                 140         -               -12.8                                1.792       .      12.8             1,792
TTA L F0OO3CRAINS                             368.1           48,446               123.5             11,380             491.6            59,726
S. Cmwmt           Chittagong               -Daccahiatayanganj 183          26.7           5.252                15.3              2,800               44.0             5,052
Chains                     OSCahl/NranUy aO3Sj 185      13.5           2,480                  8.5              1,572              21.8             4,032
Chains                     thulnia             30         --31.5                                                 945              31.5                945
Syihet                   -Dacea/Haruyangenj 210           -                         -        17.0             4,250               17.0             4,250
Intsrdistrtrt                                 140                         -12.8                                1.792              12.8             1.792
TOTL C 1!42.0                                                  7,71.2               85.1             11,359              127.1            19,071
6. Coali            httga                     Dacca               191   --Ti-.             2,101                                                      11.0             2,10-1
Chain.                     Dacca              190        8.9            1,691                                                      8.9              1,691
Calcutta- Dacca                               491         -               -                    -                 -                   -                -
Cho 1,"                  -other dostinatio,,sI40          -               -                  87. 0            12.180              87.0            12.180
TOTAL COAL                                     19.9            3,792                87.0             12,180              106.9           15,972
7. ftpar + board  Chu lna                     marzyaISg-US        212       11.7           2,480                  -                 -                 11.7             2,480
lntardiatrtet                                 140         -               -                   0.6                 840.6                                84
OrA L PAPER                                    11.7            2,480                 0.6                 64               12.3            2,564
8. Fetrolaim       Chlttoangou                Dmm*h4erayanganj  183        316.3          57,882               306.6             56,473              624.9           114,355
Products       Chittagong               - hulns              265      228.1           59,306               323.6             84,136             551.7           145,442
Chittagong                 Barisal            145         -               -                  22.6              3,277              22,6             3,277
Chittagong               -ch.aodpur          '149         -               -                   7.5              1,118                7.5            1,118
Cbittergv      ~         - Ashuganj           238         -               -                  15.1              3,594               15.1            3,594
Interdi.trlct                                 140         -                                  75.2            10.528               75.2            10,528
TOTAL FIT3LRDIP MOUXJrS                       544.4          117,188               752.6            159,126           1,297.0           276,314
9. louldersl       Chihatak                 - Naryaynganj         245        7.7           1,886                                    -                  7.7             1,886
stone/         I.terdtatrict                                  140         -                                  0.9                126                0.9               126
8h1ngla                 TOTAL 5(XJRDKRS ETC.                             7.7           1,886                 0.9                126                8.1             2,012
10. General Cargo  Chit,agoog                -  arayaganj          181      309.0          55,929                  -                 .                 0.0             55,929
ChfttaRoa                - hulma,             260        8.3            2,13                   -                 -8.3                              2,158
Kh,,1,Inm,                 IAhayan40j         212      200.5           42,506                  --200.5                                            42,506
Dier                     -  arayanganj         22         -               -                    -      .          --                                   -
Chalns/Chittagang        - blnd
deatLnatico.      140         -               -                 90.7             12.698               90.7            12,698
TOtL GUIm3L CARGO                             517.8          100,593                90.7             12,698             608.5           113,291
TOTAL 1974-1975                            1,818.9          317,389             1,329.0            229,475           3,147.9          3546,864
AVERAGE uileaga/to                                    175                                   173
11. maft traffic
CT1bar +                                                                  --                                29                  --                                   --
Februarv 1977



TABLE 7
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECONDi INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Items to be Financed by the Proposed Credit
Items                                                                Amount
(US$ million)
MOC
(a)  Specialists for a telecoimnunications equipment study            0.08
(b) Telecommunications equipmaent for the inland water
transport sector                                                 0.30
(c) Specialists to assist in the preparation of projects,
investment plans and a training program                          0.14
BIWTA
(a)  Three mobile cranes at Dacca and Khulna                          0.30
(b)  Cargo handling facilities and materials                          0.80
(c)  Spare parts for vessels, navigation and hydrographic
equipment                                                        0.50
(d) Specialists for financial management, data collection
and cargo handling operations                                    0.24
BIWTC
(a) Equipment, materials and spares to improve overall
cargo vessel efficiency                                          1.50
(b) Specialists for financial management and cargo vessel
deployment/operations                                            0.26
Unallocated                                                      0.88
5.00
April 1977



TABLE 8
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ x 1000)
FY 1978                           Quarterly Disbursement         Cumulative Total
March 31, 1978                               400                        400
June 30, 1978                                700                      1,100
FY 1979
September 30, 1978                         1,100                      2,200
December 31, 1978                            900                      3,100
March 31, 1979                               900                      4,000
June 30, 1979                                600                      4,600
FY 1980
September 30, 1979                           400                      5,000
Closing Date June 30, 1980
Source: Bank Staff
April 1977



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Banzladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
Statements of Incorne and Expense Accounts3-
2/
1971/72          1972/73         1973/74        1974/75            1975/76-              1976/77
Taka (Lalds)                                       (Budget)
ITicome
G(overnmenut Crants
Taxes atid fares and freights                         15.2              20.8           12.1            10.8              6.5
Maintenance Dredging                                  (a)               35.0           34.0            34.0              74.4                  9(.0
Administration Cost                                   n.a.              15.0           15.0            15.0             15.0                   25.0
Decca Cbain anid Salvage Unit                          4.4              4.4             4.3            4.3               4.3                   17.0
Total Goveriment Grants                             19.6            75654                           64.1             100.r2                162.0
Other Income
Conservancy Tolls                                      1.9               2.7           16.6            15.6              25.4                  20.0
Pilotage Fees                                          2.0               2.8            4.3             4.9             12.7                   12.0
Salvage Charges                                        0.8               1.9            1.6             2.4              4.9                    1.0
Port Reventue                                         29.4             46.0            53.6           74.0             123.4                   90.0
Canal Revenue                                          2.7               4.3            4.1             8.4              10.4                  17.0
Dredger Hire Charges                                    -               15.0           50.8           97.7             117.1                  150.0
Miscellaneous                                        _15.1            _ 9.1           _5.9              5.9            _19.5                    9.0
Total Other Income                                 51.9              81.8           136.9          208.9             313.4                 299.0
Total 8rWTA Income                                 71.9             15_7n n?.                      2-3.0             41.3.6                46i.0
Expenses
Secretariat                                            9.5             11.0            10.7           13.1              14.4                   14.0
Planniilig                                             1.3               1.4            1.4             1.8              2.2                    2.9
Stores, Finance, Accounts and Auidit                   8.3              8.9            11.0           14.0              15.5                   21.2
Port and Traffic Expenses                             19.1              21.2           21.9            27.9             33.5                   41.3
Conservancy and Pilotage                              55.1             63.2            98.0           93.0             106.4                  121.9
Maintenance Dredging                                  (b)               (b)            (b)             (b)              98.2                   70.0
Civil Works and Common Services                       23.1             55.5            83.1           82.6              64.4                  98.0
Hlydrography                                           4.9               7.1            5.1           13.4              14.7                  26.1
Mechanical Engineering                                (b)               (b)            (b)            61.1              84.7                 103.3
Engineering                                           18.1            _19.3            22.5           28.5              30.4                  35.5
Total Expenses                                    139.4             187.6           253.7          335.4             464.4                 534.2
Less Charged to Development Schemes                 54.1              27.0            55.0           57.5              50.0                  60.0
Net Expenses                                         85.3            160.6           198.7          277.9             414.4                 474.2
Surplust(Deficit)                                 (13.8)              (3.6)            3.6           (4.9)             (0.8)                (13.2)
Notes:  (a)  In 1971/72 grant for mainteniance dredging included in Development Program budget.
(b)  Maintenance Dredging expenses 1971/72-1974/75 inciuudcd with Civil Works expenses.
1.  Figuires for the years 1971172-1974/75 are as presented by BIWTA to IDA staff.
2.  Figures for 1975/76 are as presenited to BIWTA and supported by Explanatory Notes prepared by Director of Accounts (BIWTA).
3.  'Ihe Statements of income and Expense are alleged to be Receipts and Payments Accoun_s but this is noL quite true
because for instance, the largest single item of revenue--Dredger iitre Charges--is merely an internal book entry, a
corresponding sum being included in various Engirieering Department expendituires.
4.  No provision has heen made in the accounts for accrued Interest on Governinent and Foreign loatns since June 1966.
5.  No provision has been made in the accouints for Depreciation of Fixed Assets (this is not important) nor has any
provision bece, made for bad and doubtfinl debts
6.  ]axes on fares and freights were levied up to July 1, 1975.  BIWTA used to get onie half of the pro--dds hit from .uly
1975 these taxes were abolished.
Source:  BTWTA
tiarch 1977



TABLE 10
BANGLADESII
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
BANGLADESH INLAND WATER TRANSPORT AUTHORITY
Balance Sheet June 30, 1976
1976                               1975
Taka (millions)
Funds Received
Grants
L'S. AID; IBRD; ADB                                         89.6                                  89.6
Ne:-.erlands, UK and Covernment of Bangladesh               53.4      143.0                       40.7    130.3
Loans
.\.-cerlands Government                                     87.6                                 n.a.
K. FW.                                                      46.5                                 n.a.
T .D.A.                                                     32.9                                 n.a.
D.L.F.                                                       1.4                                 n.a.
US. AID                                                      0.9                                 n.a.
169.3                                132.1
Government of Bangladesh                                   233.6      402.9                      171.2    303.3
Reserves
General Reserve (Loans already repaid)                      23.7                                  23.7
Special Reserve (Corunissions on sale of Prize Goods)        9.7       33.4                        9.7      33.4
579.3                               467.0
Assets and Pronerties
Expenditure on Fixed Assets and Development Schemes
Office Building and Equipment                                1.5
Outlay on Completed Schemes                                235.2
Outlay on Schemes in Progress                              250.4                                 388.1
Outlay on Rehabilitation/Reconstruction                     53.0      540.1                       40.0    428.1
Current Assets
Stores                                         0.3                                                 0.3
Receivables                                    7.7                                                 4.0
Advances and Prepayments                       3.0                                                14.9
Cash in hand and at Bank                      18.1          29.1                                   5.5
24.7
Less Current Liabilities
Bank Overdraft                                 5.2                                                 5.6
Creditors, including security deposits        10.8                                                 7.7
Accrued loan interest (to June 1966)           2.2          18.2        10.9                       2.2       9.2
Deficit                                                                   28.3                                29.7
579.3                              467.0
Notes:  1.  Loans from the Government of Bangladesh were received during the years 1958/59-
1975/76. Repayment terms are not clear.
2.  Foreign Loans are shown at "Book Value"; no adjustments have been made to reflect
the devaluation of the Taka since the loans were received.
3.  Provident Fund Accounts are kept separately by the Trustees.  Contribations of
BIWTA are paid to the trustees annually.
4.  The most recent audited accounts are those for the year 1972/73.
Source: BIWTA
October 1976



BG.ANADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WArER T'RANSPORT PROJECr
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BWTC)
Actual and Forecast Profit and Loss Accounts
1/            1/                    2/                     2/              (Budget)                      ---Mission Estimate--------------
1972      1972/73        1973/74       1974/75         1975/76                  1976/77                      1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       1980/81
(PrelIminary)
Taka (millions)
Earnings
Fares                                     (a)          (a)            (a)          10.5             (a)                     (a)                           (a)          (a)           (a)           (a)
Freight                                  13.1         60.3          64.7           60.6          109.2                    150.0                        121.0         140.0        162.0         187.0
Charter llire                             (a)          (a)            (a)          12.6            17.9                     (a)                           (a)          (a)          .(a)           (a)
Miscellaneous Earnings                    0.4          1.9            3.4           1.4             0.6                     6.3                           5,0          5.0           5.0          5.0
Required Tariff Increase-3/                            ____--                                                                                              12.0         14.0          16.0          19.0
Total Income                        13.5          62.2          68.1           85.1          127.7                    156.3                        138.0        159.0         183.0         211.0
4/
Expenditures-
Direct Fleet Expenses                     7.8         37.9          55.7           69.7            86.0                    71.2                        102.0         114.0         128.0        144.0
Traffic Operating Expenses                2.1          6.6           6.7            4.9             6.9                     5.3                           6,0          7.0           8.0           9.0
Shore Establtisimenit                     1.8          6.3           8.4           10.3            10.9                    12.6                         13.0          14.0          16.0         17.0
Shore Contingencies                       1.8          7.4           4.6            4.9             4.6                     3.7                           5.0          6.0           7.0          8.0
Intter.. coioa L-..                       1.5          4.6           ).J            3.9           21.7                     33.5                         32.0          34.0          36.0         38.0
Depreciation                              1.9          9.1          14.3           16.4            21.4                    25.6                         22.0          24.0          26.0         28.0
16.9         71.9          95.0          114.1          151.5                    151.9                        180.0         199.0        221.0         244.0
5/
Net Profit/(Loss)                          (3.4)        (9.7)         (26.9)        (29.0)          (23.8)                    4.4                         (42.0)       (40.0)        (38.0)        (33.0)
Mission Estimate6/
Revenue        115.0
Expenditure   165.0
Deficit        (50.0)
Notes:  (a)  Included In freight.
1/ Figures taken from audited accounts.
2/ Figures as presented by IWTC.
3/ Based on a 10. annual increase in rates and fares from 1977/78 onwards; traffic volume has been assumed to increase at 5R p.s. from the
1976/171 base year mission estimate.
4/ The mission eatimate of future expenditure is largely based on judgmenC.  The budget estimate for 1976/77 seems unrealistically low because
operating expenses are shown at a much lower level than in the previous year while the escimate for interest and depreciation is Taka 17 million
htghier than in the previous year.  Misaioni estimates of 1976/77 operating expenses are at about the same level as for 1975/76 and for fuiture
years it has been assumed that operating expenses will be 507% variable with volume and provision has been made for annual price increases of 107L;
a modest incresae in interest and depreciation charges has been allowed for possible increases in borrowing and investment.                                                                     m
5/ 'Ihe forecast losses are considered to be the best estimates which can be made in the absence of msore realistic information.  They have been                                                    -
drawn up to indicate somie order of magnitude in the tariff increases required which have been restricted to 10%/. annually.  If the G;overnment
loans should be converted inito equity the forecasts would look more favorable because the interest charges would be reduced,
6/ Based oni revenue for first six monlths iaka 57 million; working expenses Taka 112 million, interest Taka 33 million and depreciation 20 million;
total Taka 165 million.
Source:  BIWTC and IDA Staff
Marth 1977



TABLE 12
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC)
Balance Sheets 1972-1976
I/               J/               I/                2/               2/
1972             1973             1974              1975             1976
Assets
Cash and Bank Balances (net)                                      10.3              40.6             36.5              12.6             35.3
Stores                                                            13.1              14.0             20.1              24.5             54.5
Receivables (including Advances and Prepayments)                   25.5             45.4             49.9              88.4             77.0
48.9            100.0            106.5             125.5            166.8
Less Currenc Liabilities
Creditors                                                          24.8             32.6             46.7              75.9             62.6
Taxacion                                                            2.1              2.2              2.0               1.8              1.8
Accrued Interest                                                    7.9             12.1             18.2              41.3             52.0
Unpaid Dividend                                                     0.3              0.3              0.3               0.3              0.3
35.1             47.2             67.2             119.3            116.7
3/
Excess of Current Assets over Current Liabilities                    13.8             52.8             39.3               6.2             50.1
Fixed Assets
At Cost or Book Value                                           181.9             200.0            283.3            440.3             552.4
Less Accumulated Depreciation                                    56.3              65.4             80.8              98.0            119.3
125.6            134.6            202.5             342.3            433.1
Work in Progress                                                   1.6           *40.2              40.3             60.3              61.5
127.2            174.8            242.8            402.6             494.6
Total Net Assets                                                141.0             227.6            282.1            408.8             544.7
Financed Sy
Share Capital of IWTC (Authorized Taka 50.0 million)              Nil               Nil              Nil              Nil               Nil
Capital of Taken Over Units                                      52.4              52.4             52.4             52.4              52.4
Contribution from Government                                     10.0              20.0             20.0             20.0              20.0
General Reserves                                                   3.5              3.5              3.7              3.8               5.8
Revenue Account Balance                                         (32.7)            (42.6)           (69.3)          (101.5)           (134.0)-/
Donated Vessel                                                      -                -              52.0             56.5              56.5
Total "Equity"                                               33.2             33.3              58.8             31.2              0.7
Debenture Stock                                                   4.8               5.3              5.6              5.6               5.6
Loans                                                           102.0             188.0            216.7            371.0             537.4
Deferred Tax Liability                                             1.0              1.0              1.0               1.0              1.0
"Difference"
141.0            227.6            282.1             408.8            544.7
1/ Figures taken from audited accounts.
2/ Figures as presented by IWTC. (These should be treated with some reserve because the audited accounts usually show
substantial differences as compared with BIWTC's provisional figures.)
3/ This is not a true reflection of net current assets because cash balances include unspent development funds which at
June 30, 1976 amounted to Taka 33.0 million.
4/ Includes Exchange Difference Taka 8.7million.
Source- BrWTC
March 1977



TABLE 13
BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bangladesh Inlanc Water Transport Corporation (BIWJTC)
Changes in Financial Condition 1973174 - 1975/76
as disclosed by balance sheets for these years
1973/74     1974/75      1975/76
Taka (millions)
Source of Funds
Surplus /(Deficit from operations )
before charging depreciation       )         (12.6)       (12.6)       (11.1)
Increase in creditors                           20.0         52.1
Loans                                           28.7        154.2        166.4
Donated vessels                                 52.0          4.6
Decrease in receivables                           -                       11.4
Increase in General Reserves                     0.5                       2.0
Disposal of Fixed Assets                         1.3
89.9       198.3        168.7
Application of Funds
Increase in Fixed Assets                        83.4        177.0        113.4
Increase in Stores                               6.1          4.4         30.0
Increase in Receivables                          4.5         38.5
Decrease in Creditors                                                      2.6
Expenditure adjustment for previous year         __           2.3
94.0       222.2        146.0
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash Balance             (4.1)       (23.9)        22.7
1973
Cumulative Cash Balance              40.6       36.5         12.6         35.3
NOTES:  1.  Increases in fixed assets and loans received include exchange
adjustments on foreign loans.
2.  The deficit shown for 1975/76 includes exchange differences of
Taka 8.7 million.
3.  The cash balance at June 30, 1976 is made up as follows:
Taka (millions)
On Development Account
(funds not yet spent)               33.0
Other cash resources                    2.3
35.3
Source: IDA Staff
March 1977



TABLE 14
BANGLADESH
PREAPPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
BIWTC Details of Outstanding Loans
Repayment
Foreign Loans                       Amount       Rate of Interest       Period
Taka
Bangladesh Shipla Bank             461,407             7-1/2%              N/A
Shipla Rin Sangstha            32,999,717              7-1/27           1972-1981
K.F.W.  W. Germany             131,736,964             3%               1985-2024
Dutch Credit                    15,106,063             N/A                 N/A
IDA Credit                     22,590,955                               1984-2023
202,895 ,106
Local Loans
From Government:
1972/73                      85,999,000              9%)  Repayment over
) 20 years after
1973/74                      40,560,000              9%)  5-year grace period.
)
1974/75                      68,164,000              9%)
1975/76                     139,757,000              9%)
334,480,000
Total Loans                    537,375,106
NOTES: 1.  Overdue interest at June 30, 1976 was shown in the balance
sheet at Taka 52.0 million.
2. In their report on the 1974 balance sheet, the auditors state
"Repayment schedules of loans have not been maintained."
Source: BIWTC
March 1977



BANG LADESH
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS
Ministry of Communications
Chief of Naval Staff and
Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrator
Railways, Roads, Highways                        Ports, Shipping and Inland                         Posts, Telegraph and
and Road Transport Division                        Water Transport Divison                           Telephone Division
Secretary                                 Additional Secretary                              Additional Secretary
Secretariat                          Departments                         Operating Agencies
-Planning cell'                          Directorate of shipping               BIWTA*
- Other offices                          Navigation Department                  BIWTC*
Chalna Anchorage                      CPA
Engineer and Ship Surveyor            BSC
*signifies offices and organizations directly
related to the execution of the proposed Project.
April 1977                                                                                              World Bank-17394



IRRD 2279
C77 ~ ~ ~     ~
ff 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
1~~~~~~~~~~~
'Z~~~~~~  2 ~ ~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2:r5
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D



