Document of
FILE Copy                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2103-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
June 28, 1977



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is officially set relative
to the Pound Sterling. From May 17, 1975 through April 25, 1976, the
official value was 30.0 to the Pound Sterling. Since the latter date
the value has been changed on three occasions, the most recent being on
November 3, 1976, when it was set at 25.45 to the Pound Sterling. The
Pound is floating relative to the U.S. dollar and consequently the Taka-
U.S. dollar rate is subject to change. The exchange rate used in pre-
paring the data for this report is Tk 15.67 = US$1 (the average market
rate in the fourth quarter of 1976).
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Mile              =     1.6093 km
1 Foot              =     0.3048 Meter
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BIWTA     = Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BIWTC     =  Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
BSB       = Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSC       =  Bangladesh Shipping Corporation
BSEC      =  Bangladesh Steel Engineering Corporation
BTS       = Bangladesh Transport Survey
CPA       = Chittagong Port Authority
CPD       =  Chalna Port Directorate
GOB       = Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
MOC       = Ministry of Communications
POL       =  Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



-   -            FOR OMCIuL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
Second Inland Water Transport Project
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:              US$5 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Purpose:             To help improve the efficiency of the inland water
transport sector, including the operations and
finances of the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Authority (BIWTA) and the Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation (BIWTC) and the preparation
of a medium-term investment program. The credit will
finance equipment, materials and spare parts for
BIWTA and BIWTC and technical assistance to (a) assist
in strengthening planning and project preparation;
(b) review, recommend and assist in implementing mea-
sures for improving cargo vessel deployment, cargo
handling operations and communications; and (c) review
and recommend measures for improving the finances of
BIWTA and BIWTC.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborizolion.



Estimated Costs:                                               Z of Total
Local  Foreign   Total      Cost
Items                               (US$ million)
(a) Ministry of Communications
Technical Assistance             0.06    0.16    0.22         3
Communications equipment
for the sector                 0.50    0.30    0.80        9
(b) BIWTA
Three mobile cranes              0.20    0.30    0.50         5
Cargo handling facilities
and materials                  0.60    0.80    1.40        16
Spare parts for vessels
navigation & hydrographic
equipment                      0.50    0.50    1.00        12
Technical Assistance             0.07    0.17    0.24         3
(c) BIWTC
Equipment, materials and
spare parts for cargo
fleet                          1.00    1.50    2.50        30
Technical Assistance             0.08    0.18    0.26         3
Sub-total                   3.01    3.91    6.92       81
Price contingencies              0.70    0.88    1.58        19
GRAND TOTAL                 3.71    4.79    8.50      100
Financing:            The proposed IDA credit of US$5 million would finance
the full foreign exchange cost of equipment, materials,
and spare parts and the full cost of technical assistance.
Part of the proceeds of the credit would be passed on to
BIWTA as a grant (US$1.84 million) and to BIWTC as a loan
(US$1.76 million) on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA.
Technical
Assistance:         Consultants/technical specialists will be employed
as follows:
(a) to strengthen planning/project preparation
and data collection and to help prepare a
medium-term investment program for inland
water transport;



- iii -
(b) to review and recommend measures for improving
cargo handling efficiency, cargo fleet schedul-
ing and deployment and the communications system
of the inland water transport sector;
(c) to prepare plans and help implement measures
required to improve the accounting systems,
financial structure and management of BIWTA
and BIWTC.
Estimated                                 US$ million
Disbursements:                   FY78     FY79     FY80
1.1      3.5      0.4
Project Benefits:    The project will help improve planning/project
preparation, operational efficiency, and finan-
cial structure and management of inland water
transport agencies.
Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1570-BD - Appraisal of a Second Inland
Water Transport Project dated June 20, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND INLAND WATER TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$5
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Second Inland Water
Transport Project. Part of the proceeds of the credit (US$1.76 million)
would be relent to the Bangladesh Inland Water Corporation (BIWTC) on
terms and conditions to be agreed with IDA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD dated September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission was in the field in November 1976 and its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Economic Performance and Development Policy Issues" (Report No. 1469-BD,
dated May 19, 1977) was distributed on May 23, 1977.
Introduction
3.        The Basic Economic Report described the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlined a course of action to maximize the development
of the country's resources. The high ratio of population to natural re-
sources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weaknesses of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and 3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variations within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        Encouraging progress was made in the period immediately following
Bangladesh's independence as an enthusiastic government, supported by mas-
sive external assistance, strove to overcome the devastation of the cyclone
of 1970 and the struggle for independence in 1971. Large amounts of food
aid were distributed, refugees were resettled, and vital port, road and rail
facilities were brought back into operation. A new constitution was adopted,
and the first national elections, held in March 1973, brought Sheik Mujibur
Rahman's Awami League party into power with an overwhelming parliamentary
majority.
5.        Overall economic progress since independence, however, has been
inadequate. Agricultural output remains insufficient for a population
growing at close to 3% a year. Industrial output, heavily dependent on
1/   Parts I and II and Annex II of this report are substantially the same
as Parts I and II and Annex II of the President's Report for the Exten-
sion and Research Project (Report No. P-2109-BD), dated June 16, 1977.



- 2 -
imports, has been affected badly by scarcity of foreign exchange. State
enterprises have been hampered by management deficiencies, excessive govern-
ment controls, shortages and price regulation. Exports have been stagnant
and finance less than half of import needs. Bangladesh also has been severely
affected by an adverse shift in its terms of trade since 1973. Trade pro-
blems are compounded by dependence on annual food imports of 1-2 million
tons, even in years of favorable weather, and by heavy reliance on imported
industrial raw materials. Government revenue has been insufficient to meet
current and development expenditure needs. Bangladesh has had to depend
on large flows of external assistance to support its development effort.
6.        The present Government, in power since November, 1975, rules by
martial law. General Zia Rahman, the Army Chief of Staff, serves both as
President and Chief Martial Law Administrator. The two chiefs of the other
defense services serve as Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The three
service heads and eleven civilians form a President's Advisory Council. Each
of the members has responsibility for one or more ministries. General Zia
Rahman's political program was endorsed by an overwhelming majority in a
referendum held in May 1977. This program includes national elections in
December 1978 and local elections, at municipal and district level, later
this year (Union Councils were elected in January 1977). The current Govern-
ment has introduced economic reforms such as a reduction of producer and con-
sumer subsidies, agricultural taxation and import liberalization and has
indicated that it intends further reforms in these areas. It has also pursued
prudent monetary and fiscal policies. However, the fundamental problems of
the country, namely overpopulation, weak administration, inadequate infra-
structure, insufficient foodgrain output and inadequate resources for devel-
opment continue to confront Bangladesh.
The Current Economic Situation
7.        On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with a standby arrangement with the IMF. Its principal elements
consisted of a credit restraint program and elimination of deficit financing,
combined with some import liberalization.    This was preceded by a devaluation
of 58% in May 1975, which subsequently, as a result of a link with the Pound
Sterling, has led to a cumulative de facto depreciation of 90%. The record
so far is that the credit restraint program has been a success: after an
estimated rate of inflation of about 80% in 1974, prices declined by 10% in
1975, and price stability continued throughout 1976. The Government not only
avoided deficit financing; it retired some of its debts to the banking system
in 1975. The import licensing program was relaxed during 1975/76; besides
increasing allocations to an average of 95% of entitlements, licenses were
renewed on expiry and there is greater fungibility in the use of exchange
allocations for selected categories of imports. Improvements in this area
continued in 1976/77: import requirements of all public corporations and high
priority private sector industries were fully met, the role of the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh was further reduced, and the list of items permitted
under the Wage Earner's Scheme for imports by the private sector was enlarged.



- 3 -
8.        At the beginning of 1975/76 the credit restrictions may have been
too pervasive and insufficiently selective; jute purchases by trading cor-
porations were hampered, production credit was scarce, and import allocations
could not be utilized. Measures were taken to rectify this situation. Over-
all, however, the credit restraint program has been salutary because of its
favorable impact on the rate of inflation. It has been reinforced by other
factors:
(a)   The output of rice in 1975/76 is estimated to have been
about 12.8 million tons, representing an increase of about
14% over 1974/75. This record harvest is not expected to be
equalled in 1976/77; output may decline (3%) to 12.4
million tons, as a result of less favorable weather.
Rice prices which remained stable for most of 1976/77
have begun to rise in the last quarter.
(b)   The private sector has a greater role in the retail and
distributive trades, but'stringent measures have been
implemented to curtail hoarding and smuggling. The
distribution controls over some consumer goods have
also been liberalized.
(c)   The supply position for raw materials has improved.
Moreover, consumers have benefitted in real terms by
substantial declines in the prices of key imports.
9.        The devaluation in May 1975 made possible a reduction in the
price of raw jute exports from the unrealistic level of i 200 per ton
(late 1974 and early 1975) to i 150 per ton (from July 15, 1975), f.o.b.
Chittagong. The reduction in price led to a significant increase in sales of
raw jute but export volume in 1976/77 has been constrained by an inadequate
crop. The volume of exports of jute manufactures also improved as a result
of improved price competitiveness as well as a recovery in world markets.
However, their value showed no commensurate improvement because of a large fall
in average price. Bangladesh's non-traditional exports have derived benefits
from the devaluation and a wide array of export incentives; as a result, their
value is projected to increase by 36% in 1976/77.
10.       The agricultural sector did quite well in 1975/76 with overall pro-
duction increasing more than 10%. Favorable weather was essentially responsi-
ble for the good harvests, since the basic problems affecting the sector remain
unresolved.   The small-scale irrigation program (comprising low-lift pumps,
and shallow and deep tubewells) has again fallen short of its target. Pro-
cedures for the allocation of fertilizer, though much improved, continue to
be in need of improvement. Credit is insufficient and inadequately distri-
buted, though the Government in recognition of this need mounted a large
credit program in 1976/77. Because of the steep fall in the free market
price, government procurement of rice increased dramatically in 1975/76 and
rose to an estimated 415,000 tons. Nonetheless, the support price was not
maintained throughout the country because of limited purchasing facilities,
stringent moisture content requirements, and unfamiliar payment procedures.



This led farmers to sell their paddy at prices below the procurement price.
In 1976/77, the Government is likely to procure about 100,000 tons less than
in the previous year, but is relying more heavily on the private trade as an
instrument for supporting farmgate prices. To achieve this, it has relaxed its
regulations governing stock accumulation and has expanded credit facilities.
Efforts are under way to rehabilitate approximately 200,000 tons of derelict
storage capacity and a study of further storage requirements is is progress.
11.       In the industrial sector, capacity utilization has improved in a
number of industries and the supply of raw materials and spares has improved.
Measures have recently been taken to reorganize those public enterprises,
which account for a major share of industrial output, in order to improve
management and labor productivity through, among other measures, providing
them with operational autonomy in matters such as staffing.
Balance of Payments
12.       The impact of the extremely good foodgrain harvests and the policies
and measures instituted in 1975/76 were reflected in Bangladesh's 1976/77
balance of payments. The restrictive monetary and fiscal policies of 1975/76
were continued in 1976/77 and they continued to restrain demand. This, plus
reduced requirements for food imports and lower import prices reduced the
value of total imports by 27%. Export earnings showed an increase of 5%.
Exports benefitted from a favorable climate for non-traditional exports which,
in addition, were stimulated by a package of incentives. New items were added
to the list of export products eligible for export performance licenses, the
income tax rebate on earnings derived from non-traditional exports was doubled,
exporters were qualified for preferential credit and interest rates, and
priority was accorded them in the issuance of import licenses for the purchase
of raw material and machinery. These incentives are expected to contribute
substantially to a projected large expansion (36%) in the value of non-jute
exports. Consequently, the trade deficit is expected to decline from $909
million in 1975/76 to US$537 million. The current account deficit in the
balance of payments is, therefore, expected to total US$512 million. However,
since external aid disbursements in 1976/77 are expected to total US$572 mil-
lion, inclusive of a cash grant of US$50 million, Bangladesh's international
reserves are expected to rise by US$72 million to $285 million at the end of
June 1977. This would be equivalent in value to about three months antici-
pated imports in 1977/78.



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
(million US$)
1974/75       1975/76      1976/77
(Actual)      (Actual)     Estimate
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         -1,402         -1,290 /b    -937
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)             358           381        400
Trade Balance                   -1,044           -909       -537
Other Current Account                      7             1         25
Current Account Balance         -1,037           -908       -512
Other Receipts and Payments (net)        272 /a        122         46
Amortization:   Long-term debt          -25            -78        -21 /c
Short term capital movements
(net) (including IMF)                  62                       -13 /d
Changes in Reserves (-=increase)       -196             50        -72
External Capital Disbursements           924           814        572
of which:
Food                               379            307        128
Commodity                          386            378        220
Project                            145            129        174
Cash                                 4             -          50
/a   Includes US$260 million of outstanding letters of credit.
lb   Includes an estimated settlement of US$24 million of outstanding
letters of credit carried over from 1974/55.
/c   Including repayment of US$6 million on USSR Wheat Account.
Id   Including refund of a deposit of US$21 million made by the Kuwait
Central Bank.
Source:   Bangladesh Planning Commission and Bank estimates.
The Medium Term Development Focus
13.        In its memorandum for the May 1976 Bangladesh Aid Group M4eeting, the
Government spelled out the focus of its development strategy for the medium-
term. Agriculture continues to be the cornerstone of its program. Within
agriculture, the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural Development Strategy
which seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. Strong efforts
are to be made to expand the acreage of high yielding varieties of seed (HYV),
to intensify "Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input programs
and to improve the efficiency and capability of agricultural support institu-
tions. It is too early to say to what extent the Government's intentions will
be translated into realistic programs of action, but they represent an essen-
tial first step.
14.       A determined effort is to be made to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector and its contribution to economic growth. One element of
the new industrial strategy consists of measures to improve the climate for
private investment, such as raising the ceilings for such investment, the



payment of compensation for nationalized property, the encouragement of
foreign private investment collaboration in selected fields, the provision
of increased opportunities for private participation in domestic and foreign
trade, and steps to activate the capital market. The second element in
the strategy consists of a drive to improve the performance of public enter-
prises through such measures as the grant of autonomy in matters of staff
management, pricing policies and inventory control, and creation of dis-
tribution networks. Programs for improvement in the performance and effici-
ency of the critical jute and cotton textiles industries, deriving from IDA's
Fourth and Fifth Imports Program Credits, have commenced. The focus in in-
dustry is on improvements in the quality of management, capacity utilization,
marketing, and profitability.
15.       The weak administrative framework, the frequent overlapping of
functions, and insufficient decentralization of authority have been impor-
tant reasons for delays in the execution of projects. The Government has
indicated its intention to remedy these defects and has taken positive steps
to reduce administrative bottlenecks impeding project execution. Discussions
are underway with the Government concerning provision of technical assistance
(with IDA funding) to the Planning Commission in the fields of overall plan-
ning and project preparation. Project preparation and implementation cells
are being set up in Ministries and Public Sector organizations to identify,
develop, and monitor projects. A study to determine what needs to be done to
strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bangladesh
Agricultural Development Corporation is underway, with assistance from IDA.
16.       Despite a substantial revenue effort in recent years, Bangladesh
depends on foreign assistance, which finances about 80% of its development
expenditures. The Government has indicated its intention to reduce this
dependence and to improve its efforts to mobilize domestic resources. In
1976/77, total revenue is expected to increase by 11%, about twice the pro-
jected rate of growth of GDP. Some new taxes and reductions in subsidies
have been introduced: (a) a tax on urban non-agricultural land and a tax on
agricultural land holdings in excess of 8.4 acres; (b) a water charge levied
at 3% of the gross increased benefit accruing to beneficiaries of the Ganges-
Kobadak, North Bengal Deep Tubewell, and Dacca-Narayanganj-Demra Projects;
and (c) a 20% increase in the price of fertilizer.
17.       Population planning is being given high priority and is an integral
part of the Government's economic growth strategy. The Government, with the
assistance of IDA and bilateral donors, has developed a program which em-
phasizes a multi-sectoral approach including motivation, communication,
and education. This involves a major effort in training medical and para-
medical personnel, in co-ordinating several agencies and in devising pro-
grams for research and evaluation.
18.       The policies and measures initiated by the Government represent a
good start. Yet they are no more than a beginning in tackling t'e major
problems of expanding the output of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource



- 7 -
mobilization, promoting exports and improving administration. Successful
implementation of the measures already initiated and formulation of additional
measures are necessary in 1977/78.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
19.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on reactivation
of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan
before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an aggregate
amount of US$148.55 million (including US$44.1 million for the repayment of
amounts that had been disbursed under the corresponding previous credits to
Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition,
as of April 30, 1977, 17 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit of
US$31 million referred to in paragraph 20, have been made totalling US$522.7
million. Of these US$325.0 million have been for five program credits. The
project credits have emphasized agricultural development, but also included
amounts for population, telecommunications, transport and industry. On
June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member of the IFC. More recently,
two credits for the Muhuri Irrigation and Shallow Tubewells Projects were
approved on June 16, 1977 and at the time of writing this report, a credit
for the Extension and Research Project was expected to be considered by the
Executive Directors on June 28, 1977.
20.       The debt service ratio in 1974/75 was 9.8%.   For 1975/76, the ratio
was estimated at 22.8%; it is expected to decline to about 11.8% in 1976/77.
The large increase in debt service was due to the repayment of about US$50
million of short-term loans for foodgrain purchases made in the wake of the
floods of 1974. Agreement has been reached between the Government of Bang-
ladesh and most of the bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the
assumption by Bangladesh of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan be-
fore Bangladesh become independent. This will lead to some increase in debt
service from the levels prevailing through 1974/75. While the debt service
ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next several years, it may do so
by the mid 1980s unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid
provided on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank Group,
Bangladesh has agreed to accept liability for certain debt for projects vis-
ibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence. A consolidation
loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0
million were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangla-
desh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise significantly over
the next few years from the present level of about 22%.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Present disbursement performance under the program credits
is good, slightly ahead of estimates made during appraisal. In contrast, dis-
bursements under project credits have lagged far behind expectations. Reasons
for this include problems associated with release of local funds, clearance of
contracts, employment of consultants and appointment of needed staff. The



Government of Bangladesh has taken steps aimed at eliminating the most press-
ing of the present bottlenecks and it is hoped that this will lead to accel-
erated project implementation. The release of local funds for projects to
semi-autonomous government agencies now requires one application per year
instead of the previous requirement for quarterly applications. The approval
of the President is no longer required for contracts; the ceiling for contracts
which can be approved directly by the project implementing agencies has been
raised from Taka 700,000 to Taka 10 million. Similarly, the requirement that
the President approve all consultants' contracts has been waived. The respon-
sibility now devolves upon the ministries responsible for the project agencies
to approve the appointment of consulting firms for projects with National
Economic Council approval or for project preparation activities. Finally,
the authorization of the appointment of staff is being made automatic in the
case of approved projects.
22.        The IDA project lending program increasingly has concentrated on
the rural sector, and specifically on food production. The Ashuganj Fertilizer,
Barisal Irrigation, Karnafuli Irrigation, Rural Development, Agricultural and
Rural Training, Muhuri Irrigation, Shallow Tubewells and proposed Extension
and Research Projects all fit into this strategy. Other priority projects at
an advanced stage of preparation include jute development and foodgrain stor-
age. While development of the rural sector must have top priority, the growth
of other sectors cannot be neglected. Particular emphasis should be placed
upon projects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector, which process
or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the strain on Bangladesh's
foreign exchange resources. Finally, emphasis must be placed upon improving
Bangladesh's project preparation and implementation capability. Given its low
per capita income, Bangladesh is heavily dependent on foreign assistance to help
finance its investment requirements. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign
exchange position, IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs.
Taking into account the level of financing expected to be available from other
external lenders, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors (such as
agricultural and rural development) where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also
justified.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
AND THE INLAND WATER TRANSPORT SYSTEM
23.       The geography of Bangladesh has given rise to a varied and complex
transport system. Numerous watercourses have traditionally provided the main
avenues of commerce but have also been principal obstacles to the development
of other and faster means of surface transportation. These watercourses and
the -nnual '-nsoon floods require railways and roads to be built on high
embankments. Few building materials are available locally and, owing in
particular to the lack of rock for road construction in the alluvial delta
terrain, road and bridge construction is expensive and the road network is
therefore developing only slowly. The movement of persons and goods very
often involves interchanges between two or more modes of transport with con-
sequent long travel-time, which complicates commerce between different parts
of the country.



- 9 -
24.       Although no detailed up-to-date information is available on the total
movement of people and goods, the Bangladesh Transport Survey undertaken in
1973/74 estimated total inter-district freight traffic by mechanized transport
in 1973 at about 7.5 million tons, comprising principally foodgrains (3.6
million tons), petroleum (1 million tons), jute (0.9 million tons) and coal
(0.4 million tons); inland water transport, including bay crossing vessels,
carried about 62% of the total, road 17% and rail 21%. Similarly, total
inter-district passenger traffic was estimated at about 10.3 billion passenger
miles in 1973, of which mechanized inland water vessels accounted for about
38%, road transport 34% and railway 28%. Over short distances, bullock carts
are also important carriers. Traffic carried by motor vehicles, mechanized
vessels and the railway is concentrated mainly along two north-south corridors,
based on the ports of Chalna and Chittagong respectively, and consists primar-
ily of foreign trade items (mostly exports of jute and imports of fuel, food-
grains, some raw materials and industrial products). The Government is cur-
rently updating traffic data with U.K. technical assistance.
25.       Road transport services are provided by the state-controlled
Bangladesh Road Transport Corporation (BRTC) and by private operators, who
carry about 90 percent of the traffic. BRTC is having difficulty in main-
taining its fleet owing to the age of its vehicles, the lack of repair facil-
ities, inadequate maintenance staff and organization and a shortage of spare
parts. In 1975, the total number of vehicles in Bangladesh including trucks,
buses and passenger cars was estimated at about 53,000; the main road network
consists of about 2,700 miles of all-weather roads and 1,500 miles of fair-
weather roads.
26.       The Bangladesh Railway Board (BRB) operates a railway system of
1,786 miles: 1,186 miles in meter gauge and the balance in broad gauge.
The present condition of the railway is poor and BRB is unable to carry con-
siderable quantities of freight traffic ideally suited for transport by rail.
The Asian Development Bank (ADB) and several bilateral sources, notably Saudi
Arabia, are providing financial support and technical assistance to BRB to
help upgrade its operations.
27.       The two maritime ports, Chittagong and Chalna, are operated respec-
tively by the Chittagong Port Authority (CPA) and the Chalna Port Directorate
(CPD). In 1975/76, Chittagong handled about 4.5 million tons of cargo and
Chalna about 1.5 million tons. Chittagong, mainly a lighterage port, is cur-
rently receiving assistance from the Netherlands and the ADB to help improve
its operations; Credit 424-BD financed the construction of an oil jetty and
pipeline connections to unload imported crude oil efficiently and to ease con-
gestion in the port area. Chalna, which is an anchorage, is being developed
as a full maritime port with financial and technical assistance from Yugoslavia.
28.       The Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) operates 16 dry cargo
vessels with a total capacity of about 140,000 DWT. The Government's policy
is to obtain for BSC a greater share of the country's foreign trade; only 9
percent of total exports and about 2 percent of imports were carried by BSC



- 10 -
in 1975/76. In connection with its purchase of two 20,000 DWT oil tankers
for lighterage under Credit 424-BD, BSC has recently procured a large oil
tanker for ocean transport, with Norwegian assistance.
29.       Bangladesh Biman (BB), the national airline, provides all domestic
and a small but growing number of international services. Most traffic is
handled by Dacca Airport, which has only limited facilities and little room
for expansion, and a new international airport is under construction at a
nearby site with French and Islamic Development Bank assistance.
Transport Policy and Investment
30.       Following the physical damage caused directly by the 1971 war, the
restoration of transport facilities was accorded high priority in the Annual
Development Plans of 1972/73-1974/75, most of which was financed by foreign
aid amounting to about US$300 million equivalent. Although some improvements
have been made in recent years, the transport system suffers from low pro-
ductivity, owing mainly to poor management, inadequate repair facilities
and lack of spare parts, materials and replacement items. In addition to
the physical constraints confronting the transport sector, the Government
faces several difficult issues in trying to improve transport operations.
Improvements in planning and management are necessary to achieve an appro-
priate balance between new capacity creation and the proper use and mainte-
nance of existing capacity. During the immediate post-independence period,
it was natural to give priority to restoring capacity. However, the time has
now come to consolidate existing capacity and to devote more attention to im-
proving operational efficiency through better management. In this connection,
the desirability of increasing the transport agencies' operating and financial
autonomy should be given thorough consideration. Secondly, the import duty
structure, which discriminates in favor of finished goods rather than parts
for local assembly, effectively inhibits the development of domestic indus-
tries, including transport, and should be reviewed . Finally, although public
sector ownership and control have been substantially expanded in road and in-
land water transport, their operations have been generally inefficient owing,
inter alia, to a shortage of managerial personnel and incentives. Recent
Government policy has appeared to permit a greater role for private operators
in transport.
31.       A Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) was established in February
1973 "to ensure the most economic utilization of transport resources, public
and private, available in the country"; and it played an effective role in
alleviating immediate capacity problems. Moreover, in order to improve trans-
port coordination and management, the Government reorganized two transport-
related ministries into a single Ministry of Communications (MOC) in January,
1976; MOC is therefore now responsible for all transport matters except civil
aviation. However, the new Ministry is still to function effectively; both
main Divisions in MOC (Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport; and Rail-
ways, Roads, Highways & Road Transport) continue to act independently and
without adequate mutual consultation. In addition to MOC, the Ministry of
Planning (MOP) is also responsible for coordinating transport policy and
investment but is not yet fully effective in this function.



- 11 -
32.       The Government recently established Planning Cells in the two Divi-
sions of MOC and in each transport operating agency to improve transport plan-
ning and the collection of data on traffic flows, operations and costs. While
these are steps in the right direction, the Government's transport planning
and decision-making is still fragmented and uncoordinated; none of the agencies
plan on the basis of comprehensive information concerning the sector as a
whole. A lack of appreciation by many officials of the extent of the problem
has made it difficult to initiate changes, except very gradually. While the
effort to persuade the highest levels of Government of the need for proper
planning will continue, there are certain specific areas where the need for
improvement is accepted and where action is feasible now. Such actions, as
they relate to inland water transport, form the basis of the proposed second
inland water transport credit.
Inland Water Transport
33.       There are about 2,300 miles of navigable waterways in Bangladesh
during the dry season which increase to 3,300 miles during the high water
monsoon season, excluding sea routes and tidal creeks. Although the major
inland water transport routes are generally maintained to 12 ft. draft avail-
ability, the waterways' regime often changes, due to the intensity and volume
of water runoff. Variations in the level of water also affect the operations
of the inland water transport system. While non-mechanized vessels (country
craft) operate in numerous major and minor watercourses throughout the country,
motorized inland water transport operations, particularly cargo operations,
are concentrated in the southern third of the country and relate primarily to
the country's import and export trade. The mechanized inland water transport
system is centered on Chittagong and Chalna and radiates from there along a
few major arteries to Khulna, Barisal, Chandpur and Dacca/Narayanganj. The
terminal areas of the inland water transport system also include 14 other in-
land ports, about 150 landing stages for passenger use and numerous riverine
transfer points. Cargo consists primarily of bulk commodities of which food-
grains, cement, coal, petroleum, fertilizer and jute are the most important.
Management and Institutions
34.       The Ministry of Communications (MOC), through its Ports, Shipping
and Inland Water Transport Division, is responsible for the inland water
transport sector and executes its operational responsibilities through the
Bangladesh Inland Water Authority (BIWTA) and the Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation (BIWTC). There are three other principal public sector
institutions dealing with inland water transport: CPA, CPD (cf para 27 above)
and the Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation (BSEC). BSEC is a cor-
poration comprising a number of nationalized steel and engineering enterprises,
including two shipyards.
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
35.       BIWTA was established in 1958 to develop and control inland water
transport and waterways. Its functions include waterways and river conserv-
ancy and related services, improvement of inland ports, the preparation of
regulations governing inland water traffic and the control of rates and fares;



- 12 -
it also acts as a coordinating body for the development of the private sector.
Although BIWTA has a Board consisting of a Chairman and a Finance Member, it
is for all practical purposes a Government Department. The Government controls
staff appointments and promotions, salaries and budgets. The total number of
employees is about 4,500.
36.       One of BIWTA's main problems is its relationship with users of the
inland waterways system. While BIWTA's charter provides for the setting up
of an Advisory Committee including representatives from all agencies as well
as the private sector, the Committee ceased to operate after independence and
was formally reactivated only earlier this year. The Advisory Committee
should serve as an excellent source of information and advice to BIWTA on
navigational problems, coordination of inland water transport operations be-
tween marine and inland ports, and research on modernizing of vessels and
needs for re-engining of private vessels. In addition, in order to make on-
going assessments of the sector's requirements, BIWTA will have to improve
its methods of data collection concerning vessel inventory, vessel operations
and traffic to facilitate investment and operational planning and foreign
exchange allocation.
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
37.       BIWTC, established in March, 1972, is responsible for a broad variety
of water transport operations including services across the upper Bay of Bengal
on ocean-going vessels with cargo carrying capacities of up to 1,700 tons;
tanker services; services to remote off-shore islands; inland tug and barge
operations; inland passenger services on large paddlewheel steamers; and ferry
services at several major highway crossings. BIWTC's Board consists of a
Chairman, its chief executive, and three other members of whom two are full-
time officers - the Director of Maintenance and Operations of BIWTC and the
Finance Member. THe fourth member is the Chairman of BIWTA. The total number
of employees is about 7,000. One of BIWTC's problems is difficulty in attract-
ing and retaining qualified personnel, partly because its pay scales are lower
than the private sector.
38.       BIWTC accounts for about 50% of the cargo handling capacity of the
inland fleet and about 10% of passenger carrying capacity. Its ferry services
for trucks and passengers are important links in the country's transportation
system. In 1976, BIWTC's fleet comprised about 590 cargo vessels (bay crossing
and inland water) with a total static capacity of about 183,000 tons, 19
passenger vessels and 17 ferries. About 40 percent of BIWTC's cargo fleet was
assessed as requiring extensive repairs in the near future and about 30 percent
will require extensive repairs in 3 to 5 years. More than half the passenger
vessels were assessed as requiring replacement or extensive repairs. Many
vessels have been laid up awaiting repairs and spare parts; others, unservice-
able or beyond economic repair were sold by BIWTC in 1976, mainly as scrap.
Meanwhile, BIWTC is preparing a detailed time phased program for the gradual
rehabilitation and/or replacement of its fleet.



- 13 -
Private Operators
39.       Private operators are a very important element in the inland water
transport sector; they handle about 90 percent of the passenger traffic and
50 percent of freight traffic. In general, their operations are fairly
efficient, considering the difficulties of obtaining adequate allocations of
foreign exchange for equipment and spare parts, poor dockyard equipment, high
taxation and the high cost of finance for new and replacement vessels. As a
part of its general policy to encourage the private sector, the Government
has recently permitted the expansion of the private sector in inland water
transport. For example, in late 1976, the Government requested the Bangladesh
Shilpa Bank (BSB) to help finance private operators' investment requirements
and BSB recently approved loans to expand private sector fleet capacity.
BSB has engaged in such lending in the past and their appraisals have been
satisfactory.
40.       Although there are no complete or detailed statistics for the pri-
vate sector, it is estimated that there are about 615 privately owned passenger
vessels with a total capacity of 77,000 passengers and about 700 barges and
flats pulled or pushed by tugs with a total capacity of about 128,000 tons.
Many of these vessels are old, of diverse design, lack readily available spare
parts and need rehabilitation or replacement. In order to standardize vessel
design, BIWTA has recently established a vessel design center with Dutch
technical assistance.
Operational Efficiency of Inland Water Transport
41.       Lack of data make it difficult to estimate the capacity and opera-
tional performance of freight vessels. However, overall efficiency appears
to be low owing to excessive time spent loading and unloading, sailing limita-
tions including limited night sailing, and long waiting time for maintenance.
Following the withdrawal in February 1976 of the mini-bulker vessels, provided
under United Nations auspices after independence to supplement domestic
capacity and subsequently chartered by the Government, BIWTC and the private
sector have been carrying foodgrains between Chittagong and Dacca/Narayanganj.
Substantial improvements in operational performance have been achieved as a
result of strict supervision by the Government; the previous average perform-
ance of less than one trip per month per vessel between Chittagong and Dacca/
Narayanganj increased to two or more round trips per month. Towards the end
of 1976, performance declined again to the earlier average of one round
trip per month, owing mainly, however, to a decline in foodgrain imports.
42.       However, there remains much scope for improvement in freight opera-
tions. First, ports suffer from poor access to and layout of jetties, in-
adequate facilities for cargo handling, storage and lighting for night working.
Although cargo handling is mainly labor intensive, commodities such as raw
jute bales, drums and larger pieces of general cargo require mechanical equip-
ment. However, only a few shore facilities would support the weight of mecha-
nical equipment. The Norwegian Government is assisting BIWTA in improving
jetty facilities at Narayanganj and Khulna. Second, BIWTC could improve its
vessel scheduling and fleet utilization and increase the availability of spare



- 14 -
parts to reduce time lost awaiting repair. Third, the inland water transport
system should be equipped with proper telecommunications. At present, the
main operating agencies all have separate telecommunications systems, the pro-
per coordination of which could assist considerably in streamlining traffic
movements within the inland water sector and between inland and sea going
traffic.
Finances of BIWTA and BIWTC
43.       The accounts and finances of BIWTA and BIWTC are unsatisfactory,
with substantially overdue principal and interest payments on loans from the
Government. Most BIWTA charges have not been increased in recent years and
revenues are inadequate to cover operating expenditures before depreciation
and interest. Similarly, BIWTC's financial position has been deteriorating
since its establishment in 1972 and a financial reorganization is needed.
Because of the unsatisfactory state of both agencies' accounts and finances,
the Government has agreed to establish clear financial objectives for both
agencies, prepare a plan and implementation timetable for the reorganization
of both agencies' finances, and cause both agencies to improve their account-
ing procedures, revenue collection and financial planning and forecasting.
IDA Assistance for Inland Water Transport
44.       Credits 16-PAK (in 1961) and 65-PAK (in 1965) to then-East Pakistan,
totalling US$7.27 million, emphasized improvements in infrastructure and the
organization and operations of the Inland Water Transport Authority (IWTA).
After some initial delays in project implementation, both projects were com-
pleted satisfactorily. Credit 339-BD (Coastal Area Rehabilitation and Cyclone
Protection Project) in 1972 included provision for the procurement of service
support vessels and the construction and repair of inland water terminals;
most of the civil works and procurement of goods have been completed satis-
factorily. Credit 424-BD (US$4.1 million) in 1973 provided for urgently
needed spare parts and equipment required by various inland water transport-
related agencies and for restoration of the offshore oil terminal at Chittagong
Outer Anchorage, which had been out of service since April 1970. It was sub-
sequently decided that restoration of the oil terminal was not justified and
a Supplementary Credit (US$4.6 million) was approved in 1975 for procurement
of two used tankers for lightering oil and for installation of related shore
facilities. Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Credit is
almost completed and the tankers will shortly be ready for operation. Credit
339-BD suffered initially from slow acquisition of land for terminals and
Credit 424-BD from the Government's cumbersome procurement procedures. The
procurement of the tankers under the Supplementary Credit also took longer
than originally envisaged.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The project was appraised in October 1976; a follow-up mission
visited Bangladesh in March 1977. Negotiations for the proposed credit took



- 15 -
place in Washington in May 1977. The Government of Bangladesh was repre-
sented by a team led by Mr. Siddiqur Rahman, Secretary, Ports, Shipping &
Inland Water Transport Division, MOC. Attached as Annex III is a Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet. A project map is also attached.
Project Concept
46.       The Government's original proposals for IDA financing in October,
1976 consisted essentially of equipment procurement for BIWTA, BIWTC, private
operators and dockyards amounting to about US$14 million. However, these pro-
posals were not based on a coherent investment program for the inland water
transport sector and lacked the necessary supporting economic, financial
and technical justification. Meanwhile, some items included in the original
proposal are now to be financed with bilateral assistance and, as described
in paragraph 39 above, the requirements of the private sector will be financed
by the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank. Given the importance of inland water trans-
port to the economy and, in particular, the evident need to improve planning
and project preparation, operational efficiency and the finances of the two
main operating agencies as described in paras. 32, 36, 38 and 41-43 above,
the project below was formulated in consultation with the government and
operating agencies concerned.
Project Components
47.       The project, which is to help improve the overall efficiency of the
inland water transport system, would include the provision of:
(a) equipment and materials for BIWTC's cargo vessels and for
the improvement of the communications system and of cargo-
handling operations and facilities;
(b) three 7/10 ton mobile cranes for river-side jetties at
Dacca and Khulna; and
(c) spare parts for BIWTC's vessels and for BIWTA's navigation
and hydrographic equipment.
48.       In support of the above procurement of equipment, materials and
spare parts, the project would also include a program of technical assistance
related directly to the planning, operational, and financial/accounting prob-
lems described in the preceding section of this report, as follows:
(a) to strengthen the planning and project preparation units,
including the data collection systems, of the Ministry of
Communications (Ports, Shipping and Inland Water Transport
Division), BIWTA and BIWTC and to help prepare a draft
medium-term investment program for the inland water trans-
port sector (24 man months);
(b) to recommend and assist in implementing measures to improve
cargo handling operations and facilities, cargo vessel
deployment and telecommunications (36 man months); and



- 16 -
(c) to help prepare plans for the improvement of the accounting
systems, financial structure and management of the BIWTA and
BIWTC (30 man months).
The Government has agreed that a draft medium-term investment program for
inland water transport would be furnished to the Association for comments
by December 31, 1978 (Section 4.02 of Development Credit Agreement - DCA).
Similarly, the plans for the financial restructuring of BIWTA and BIWTC would
be made available to the Association for comments by December 31, 1978 and
would be implemented by June 30, 1979 (Section 4.03 of DCA). The audited
reports of the accounts of BIWTA and BIWTC in respect of fiscal years 1973/
74 through 1976/77 would be furnished to the Association by June 30, 1978
(Section 4.04 of DCA). Assurances have been obtained that the specialists
to be appointed to assist in carrying out the above technical assistance
component of the project would be employed by December 31, 1977 with qua-
lifications and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.02 of DCA).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at Tk 133 mil-
lion (US$8.5 million equivalent), including taxes and duties, with a foreign
exchange component of about US$4.8 million. The proposed US$5 million credit
would finance equipment and materials for cargo vessels and for the improve-
ment of telecommunications and cargo handling operations and facilities
(US$1.9 million), spare parts for vessels and navigation and hydrographic
equipment (US$1.5 million), technical assistance (US$0.7 million) and con-
tingencies (US$0.9 million).
50.       Project costs are based on March 1977 prices and assume that equip-
ment, materials and spare parts and the technical assistance specialists will
all be obtained from abroad. The amount of the credit allocated for tech-
nical services has been calculated on the basis of an assumed estimated total
average cost per man month of about US$8,000. Contingencies provide for
price increases of 8% per annum for both local and foreign costs and account
for about 19% of total project cost. No provision has been made for physical
contingencies because no civil works are involved and the detailed quantities
of equipment, materials and spare parts required will be determined only during
project implementation. The local costs of the project include taxes and
duties, local transport and handling, and minor installation expenditures.
Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Project implementation would take about three years.   While the
Ministry of Communications (Ports, Shipping & Inland Water Transport Division),
BIWTA and BIWTC will each be responsible for implementing its part of the
project, the former will coordinate project activities, particularly in areas
such as telecommunications and planning/project preparation extending beyond
the jurisdiction of one agency. In addition, the technical specialists to be
appointed under the project will also advise and make recommendations for the
procurement of all equipment and materials, except the mobile cranes. The



- 17 -
proceeds of the credit allocated to BIWTA and BIWTC will be made available to
the Authority and Corporation respectively under financial arrangements to be
made by the Government on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.01 (b) of DCA). These arrangements, to be made as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01(b) of DCA), are expected
to consist of a grant to the Authority and a loan to the Corporation repayable
over a period of twelve years, including a grace period of three and one-half
years, at an interest rate of 9% per annum, excepting the technical assistance
allocation to the Corporation, which may be passed on on softer terms. A
project implementation schedule has been agreed.
52.       Up to US$3.4 million equivalent of equipment, materials and spare
parts to be financed by the proposed credit will be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts
and related documentation for all orders valued at US$50,000 equivalent or
more would be subject to review by IDA. Local manufacturers would be accorded
a preference of 15% of the CIF price of imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids. Spare parts for existing
vessels and for navigation and hydrographic equipment may be procured on the
basis of negotiated contracts from suppliers of the original equipment; and
contracts for off-the-shelf spare parts costing up to US$5,000 may be pro-
cured through normal government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
The amount of such purchases, if any, would be limited to US$50,000 in total.
It has been agreed that a detailed list of spare parts to be procured under
the project would be sent to IDA by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.05 of DCA).
53.       Disbursements from the proposed credit would finance:   (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory for equipment,
materials and spare parts; (b) 50% of total expenditures for imported spare
parts procured locally; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for technical
services. The amount of local cost financing from the proposed credit (about
US$0.2 million) would be mainly for the local costs of technical services.
All disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
Benefits and Economic Justification
54.       As described in Part III of this report, the inland water transport
sector is crucial to the national economy and improvements in its performance
are of high priority. The proposed project is an interim measure of finan-
cial and technical assistance and, in the absence of an investment program,
detailed operational data, traffic forecasts and costs, no attempt has been
made to quantify the economic benefits that will accrue from its implementa-
tion. Given the present poor state of the sector, however, there is no doubt
that the proposed project will generate substantial benefits. If the project
were not carried out, currently low levels of service would deteriorate further
because existing equipment would be used less efficiently and the proportion
of over-aged and ill-maintained equipment would increase. Furthermore, since
effective inland water transport capacity would decline, the Government would
eventually have to resort to costly purchases of new equipment which could
be obviated by early minor investments and improvements in operational
efficiency.



- 18 -
55.       Improvements in planning and project preparation would in due course
save considerable resources through avoidance of uneconomic investments.
Improvement of BIWTC's operations and cargo handling practices and the pro-
curement of cranes, equipment and materials to upgrade cargo handling facili-
ties would reduce cargo handling time, increase vessel and port operating
efficiency, and reduce transport costs. Minor investments in spare parts for
BIWTC's vessels would reduce the time required for repair; and spares for
BIWTA's equipment would help improve aids to navigation and the hydrographic
work necessary to maintain the waterways in the condition required for effi-
cient operations. The proposed credit is complementary to aid being provided
by bilateral and othe: multilateral agencies and will assist in the prepara-
tion of further projects suitable for external financing.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the
text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit are:
(a) that the Government has approved the Project Proforma for the project and
(b) that the Government has made arrangements for passing on the proceeds of
the credit allocated to BIWTA and BIWTC on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA (Section 6.01 of DCA).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 28, 1977



IS 
Izz
hi  1                                                  N                             -  S
z  2 I-                                                                -  
44 -*     c    N O   -    0  0!W   00 0                CC  000       0j0              0
hi                             O.                                                       V 
a   S,  wl  S.
Stt   It  95
450  5  ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  '04                       '.4  '-I~4                    0I 
OS  CC                                  II              0F-r-4
*  CS                                                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C  S                                                                                 S~~~~~~~~~~~7I 7   C  S  w I 
CS S                                                                                    S~0nm S w .  01   2Cn- 
.505  hi7*                                                 0  0  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  O  ,2**.;C0  M, 
flt  a... so  o.  .-.p-.  OCCO  NI-  C  C540  .-'.-.  o~~ ~~~~ 445  P4I      0..M.-o.L' 
*5*5  S'- *   P.  554  0444050  44  ~~~~~~~        ~~~ ~~~0 -  Zg7 000 
50  0  s  ~~~~~~~~  000  . -   *  Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.~~~4-I  ~~~~~-i-In-o  Q  - I
*o  5  CI-  -        0                000                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L   C .   `. 
SC  S                N                1-340                           5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n. r   ~_  ` .   NZ -O
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~27W   .  Z "iSA  1
4.5  *5  4.  -4.        -4-.-.-,    .--        4-..-.              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,   .W .  
.55  - SO  .440 - 0 I - 0  Ot5 -     0      OO-:C                  O 
aS S,O   I  _ 0  -W *~S             0P v  I407       00- 0-         -                  S:,; CW2k) 
C   --  7S,
1:0:   I  4M  S-.OS                                       h                       0   h
_19  I   0  S I  .0 00               4.           B   2   C                        0.-I S
a                                                                            S,042 -   t  00 C ..* 7I07 n  It 5



ANNEX I
Pae. 2 of 4 pgeg.
nlsothc._icc noted, data fat 1960 refer to coy year betwn 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 &od 1970, cod for Moat Recent tetimate
betseco 1973 and 1975.
Th.a 1970-75 popultion growth ratc L. coboueally lox do. to the effects of the ser of indspendsoce eod saec populatimo ceannt               oos
the bord.er during that period.   Precently, tha s,verag. Population growth L. i.timated at 3% Par ann
ccSelection of Malsycic as an objective country in based on Malasia'e eucce.s in ocintaiinig a high rot. of econonic growth and adequate
level of welfare concurrently with diversifying its comitc structur.
BACA H 19,60  j,j Ratio of population under 13 cod 60 and ower to total labor force;         Lb  1963-64;    /c  Registered, oot all
praoticing in the country;      (     werGoveaot hospital eatabliaheoota only;    /.  Approximctc enrollincot as
percmentge of population in 6-#    cod 11-IS agc grop. resp-cttIvy;        If   Age group 15-59 cod 60 cod over reapcttively.
1970  A4~1966-67;     .Lk  1967-69;    /j Registered, not all practicing 10 the country;       /d  Gwocrnment hospital
eatabliasnuenta only;    Le  Average for 1969-71;    /f. -Appr-oniate anrollaset as percentage of population in 6-10
and 11-IS aeg groups respectively.
MOST RECENT 3IgYnAy:    /a   Ratio of population under 15 cod 60 and over to total labor force;       /b  Mainly osaeployd worker.
seeking their first job;     /c  Including nidwives;     Ld  1972;    /a  Age group 15-59 and 60 cod -ovr
respect ively.
RUSRIA         1970   a. Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor. force;       /b   Personnel in gworternt servicco only;
/ c 1964-66.
ZM&UlAM        1970  /.    1964-66;    b  public schools which incl.de technical educa.tion at the poat-sezonary level.
MALAYSIA       1970  /a   West Malaycia;    /b  Registered applicants for work;      /c  1964-66;    /d  Piped "cter inaids.
Rio, may'24, 197 7
SSVDhITONS O? SOCIA ISOECATOR
Land Arc. (thou loe2                                                                   Popuaton   ncou    aocpro     - PapuI.lst- divided by ,o,h- of prr-ci.ic
Total   Tota1 surf at. area cnprialeg land area cod inland eateca.                                    Isean  el graduate nurs., 'trained  on "certifid" nura.... and4
Agrii..  Most recent satimate of agricultural- area med tonporarily or Perna-            auniiay persnnl with training or eapari-oe
nently for crops, p.etures, *  rkat A kitchen gardens or to Ie. fallow.              POplation par hoPital bed - Popul.tion divided by n,wh- of hoapit.1 bode
vailable in public and pcvtst general and epecislisad hospital1 and
GNP par -sita (US$) - CNP per capita *etiostee at curret nerbat prices,                  rehabilitation cente.-; excludes nursing home and estabhitaenants for
calculated by ca.  con vaersion athnd as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 beatia);            c,itod.1l and preventiv  cars.
19h0; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                            Per caPita muply of caloric   (l of cesuicnata) - Conput.d fran corgy
squivelot of aot food supplias eveilabl   in coutry per capita per dsy;
.p.Lu.tion and vital catiatic                                                            avilable suppli.s cmprine deastic produc tion, inporta less enports, sad
PpocIltion (eid-y-s nillion)    A. of July first:  if not -vilabl., average              change. in stock; net supplies -nlde animal fssd,..scds, quanities used
of two end-yea .stimstei; 1(60, 1970 and 1975 data.                                    in food prcassing and looses in diatnihutiam; req.ruiants    -r  estiested
by FAl based on phyx iolegical needs for norcial activty end health cona id-
Population denity - par snar be - Mid-year population per square kileatar                ainga s   icota1 teperaturs, body taighta, age end ... distributions of
(10   hst'r". ftta    ra                                                            popultion, and a11issig 10% tf- usta at heneehold ls-e.
P      'd-4          ""    7Pa..it l~opultio  pariy- e  snuars -. pisaic. lend - Imputed as abov  for  Pe  apt  upl  f prtei, farm  per_day) - Protein  ontsnt of par capita
sgricu1tur.I lend only.                                                                net Supply of food pe   a;a      uply of food is defined as shove; requir-
ants for all co-tries established by USDA Econmic Research Servic-
vital statistics                                                                         provida for a ainlm allowance of 60 gra of total prot.in per day, snd
Cruda birth rats par thouaad. av-axe - AnuaI lIve births pet thousand of                 20 grin  of anmlad pulse protai., of which 10 gr         should be animal
nid-yaar population; te-yner aritheti. aver.ags    ndiag to 1960 sod 1970,             protei.; thosa standrda are lowr then th-n of 75 gran      cf total prntain
and fie-ye     arverage ending 10 1975 for net recent estimat..                        and 23 gra   af animal protein as an overage for tha world, proposed by FAO
Crude death -ste par thousond. avecas  - Annual death. per thousand of old-year          in the Third World Food Survey. 
population; too-year aritiseatic avrages ending 10 1960 and 1970 and five-           par caPita protein suonly frvan anima and pnine - Prctsin supply of food
year average coding in 1975 for neat recent estimaet.                                  derived fran animals end pulses 10 gcan   per day.
Infaot artslity raet (/tho.) - Annul deatho of infants andes an Year of sge            Death rats (/thou) acas 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thouaad lIve birth..                                                               years, to children in tbic age group; suggsstsd as an indic-tor of
Lift ..octancy at birth Oyre) - Av-rgs -tbsr af years of life rouaining at               alnutrition.
birth;   -ualy five-yea   verogs aending in 1960, 1970 and 1970 for develop-
ing coutries .                                                                       gd-ction
Grin  reproduction rtts- hvrags nabhr of live deaghtero soawill boar                    Adiuated enro1lnt ratio - primary school - Enr1ollnt of all ages as per-
in her n-na reproductive period if she    nparineste  present age-specific             acatag  of penary schoo-ass populatioo; includes childre     aged 6-11 year
fertility atnta; u-ua1y five-year avrages -ndieg in 1960, 1970 and 1975                but sdjatnd far diffsrent lengtha of primary sductian; for coutries with
for dovaloping coutries,                                                               universal educa ..tion, anrollot nay .....ed 100X sines ems pupils are baby
Population groth rate (7.) - toatl - C-po-sd aonnal growth r-tes of eid-yssr             at above the official school aSs..
population for 1950-60, 1960-701 and 1970-15.                                        Adisted eneloet ratio - secondary school - Conputad as abova; occondary
pouat   _.oot rate Cl) - urban - Imputed like growth rate of total                 eduction requires at leas.t four years of approved primary inst-ution;
population; diff-ernt definitions of urban areas may affect ...nparaility of           provides genrs1, vocationa    c- teacher training intructions for pupilo
dat  amn    mtie                                                                         f 12 to 17 yea.-  of age; c--epondante cora      mr ge...ca1ly e.. ded.
Srban population  i. f total) - Ratio of urban to total populotion; different          Years of schoolinx provided (first nd second levels) - Tata1 years of
definitions of urban area  may sff.ct co.pa-bility of date smog countriea.              otheoling; at secondary la-e, voetioal inatroction may be pertially cc
AR, structure (pnrc...t) - Childre  (S-li years), wokiog-egs (15-64 y..ro),            Vocationl enolnt(          f secondary) - Vocationa  institutions include
anddretdired (65 years wndovr) as pe-cntages of oi-arpoPuIttion.                        technical, industrial or ether prgrmn   which aper-te indep.ndsntly cca
ARedeoneny retin       R ai   f popu.laton under IS end 65 and ovr tc chose               departments. cf scondsry ine titutiene.
of 0000 15 through Al.                                          Adul~~~~~~.!.tli.teray rat .(%) - litarste adults Cabin to -ed snd -its) as par-
E-conoi dependency ratio - catio of poplation under 15 sod 65 and over tc                 ecsc toa         adult popuistin agsd 15 years ond ocor.
the labor. frce in ago grou  of 15-A  years
E_ily   I.acnin  - acetors Cc,anjatv. thou) - Cu1tlatve nunb- af ...ceptors             Ho-cing
cf birth-contrc  devices undr ...spic.. of nationa  family planning progra            Personsper rem   (urbn) - Average   oohe  ef pornons per rum  in -crpiod
since ince ption.                                                                       convetiona   d-sting   in urbanara. dwellings encludin no-pernanent
Fanily plianni   - uaera(. o%f married wnn     Peractogee of marrid   -m      of          tutrocd unoccupied p.rte.
chil1d-hesriog sin (15-44 year) who me birth-control device. to all married           OncSupid.d dWollns wthout imd watr      L    0 Occupied  --voti-Ia dwelligs
oe it, _m age group.                                                                 in orbn an.d rural areas without inuide cc outeido piped ester fs-ilities
spercetage of allC ocpied dwlings.
Tsilbrfor.o (th .....d) - Econaicslly active persons, including aed                ectity       nlvngquarters as Percen.t of total dnilio.gs in -bhn and
fcrcs  aod unsplayed hut nc1oding ho--eive, stdeets, etc. ; definitions                rur1 ara..
in  sriua  oonrie  ar  no  caperabis.                                          lRs-I dwelling  connected to electricity (2) - Cnputed as above for rura
Labor ores inaoiculturs2       - Agricultural 1aher force (In fa-nig, foretry,            dwlig     ony
huntin  sd fishig    as percetaga of total labor fort..
Oaptoved" (7 f isbort force) - Unanploysd ar  usualy definsd as person    h.          Coneption
are able end willing to tsbs a Job, out of s Job on a given day, renind out           Radio re-iv-rs (set thoso)-      All typan of receivers for -dio brodcas.ts
of.sJob, end seeking work for s specified minimu   Period not enc.eding one             to general publIc per thousod ef populotion; ...udna unIcense..d ceceiv--
wek; may not bs cooparablo betwee   coutries due to diffarent definitia                 in "outra    and inYssr   whan cogierr-tion of radio nets -s in effect;
of unaployed end eorc    ef data, e.g., sapleyet office statistics, .-pi.               dets for recent years may not be canparale since ost -cunicio    abolitobd
survYs, -apulsory uoonploye    t ineac.linaeins1g.
tassene r cr  (  timu son).-. .a..nget care canprins netor cars seating
Inc     distribution - Prcentage of privat e inca   (both in cash and kied)               lsta       ight prsn;eue       s anbulancde, heeross end nilitary
r--ivad by richest 51, richest 202, peocet 201, and peoreet 401 of house-               rehiclo..
holds.                                                                                El-ntricit, fbkh    Por cap) - Annul conemption ef industrial, emril
Publ ic and private elentricity in kilonatt hours per ..pita, genersl1y
Dietributien of land  --nrhip - Percen.tages of land wownd by malthi.st 102X              bs...d on production data, without elwnofor looses in grids hot allo--
and peorest 101 of 1sod    nr.                                                          ing f or imports and eports of electricity.
Neysprint (kg/yr par tp) - Per caPita snnusl c-aption In kilogra
Health and Nutrition                                                                      estimated fran daontic production plus net imports of n-wprint.
Popula~tion prphyalcian - Populstion divided by o,ber of practicing
P",ciciss qucaified fr= s     edical school at university leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3of 4 Pages
Actasi                                             1960-      1965-      1975-        1967-69 1974/75 1976/77
AV. 1967-69    927      19 74/ 75     19 7577    19276/77            1965       1970       19 77
NATIONAL ACCO..ILceVTSnt                      1972- .1973 Prices &   axchange Rates       Average AnnuaLl Growth Rate.          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product             6,012     5,833    6,514            7,295      7.561               4.7        3.3        6.7         9.       0.      0.
Gains from Terms of Trade     )       89         .     -117             -145       -148                                                  1.5     -1.8     -2.0
Gros3 Domestic Ircm                 .11T 1                                        7,413               5.6        2.5        6.2                          10.
Import (incl. NES)                   879       747      703             646        500               20.6        6.8       -7.4         14.4     11.0      6.7
Exports    "  (import capacity)      598       369       197             200        210              12.3      -14.6      -12.6          9.6      3.1      2.8
Resource Gap                        2r81-    -3Th      -                 446        290                                                  4.6      7.9      39
Consumption Expenditures           5,668     5,817    6,403            7,062      7,230               5.7        3.6        5.6         92.9    100.1     97.6
Investment    1  (incl. stocks)      714       394      499              534        473              13.3        8.8         6.7        12.9      7.8      7.4
Domestic Savings                     433        16        -6              88        183               4.3       10.0        81.0         6.8     -0.1      2.4
National. Savings                    416        32        10             110        200               8.7       20.5       57.0          7.1      0.2      2.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent of Total
Teport 0 
Capital goods                       ..       10        135             213        268                 ..                  25.7          .      16.8     28.6
Tnt.ernediAte goods (m,rlfuels)     .        1 76      386             386        250                 ..                  12.8          .      30.4     26.7
Fuiels and related naterials
of which:   Petroleum             .         23       155             126        144                 ..                  49.8                 10.0     15.4
Cosuptlosn goods                           428A      726.ZZ          541        275                 .           .       -6.6        .....       " ~.i  za~.3
Toal Meh.     Tmots (dCr)         547       727     1,402           1,266        937                                       8.6                100.0    100.0
Exports
Pr imary products (exl. fuels)      .        145       119             156        168...                                   2.9                 40.9     42.0
Fuiels and related materials
cC which: Petroleum
Ma,,ufactured goods                          195       239             225        242                 ..          .         5.4      __        59.1     58.0
Total Merch. Exports (fob)         481       340       358             381        400                                       3.810.                     100
Tou,rism and Border Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1972-73 *100
Export Price index                  61       100       133,            109        III.                           .         2.4
Import Price Index                  52       100      215'             195        189                 ..                  16.3-
Terms of' Trade Index              118       100        62              56         59                 ..          .      -11.7
Exports Volume Index               148       100       80'             106        123                  ..                   3.9
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1972- 73Nrices and Exchange Rates               Average Annual Growth Bates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      3,542    3,403     3,712            4,078      4,140                                                   59 ..5.8         57
Industry and Mining                420      412       466              527        567                4.           .          8           7       7        8
Service                          2.050    1.848     2.146            2.333      2.504                                      7... 8:      34      34       35_
Total                           6,012     5,663     6,324            6,938      7,211                                      8.          100     101)     100
RJBLIC FINANCE                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GDP
T(Central ro-vernment)
Currenlt Receipts                  317      280       469              775        877                 .                   32           5.3     7.2     11.2
Curreilt Expenditures              365      364       419              600        686                                     34.2         6-1     6.4      8.7
Bujigetary Savings               4-48       - 84      5-0              17111.8                                                        -.        .        .
Othe~r Public Sector                                                    -         i91-.                                                         .        .
Puilie Sector lnvestment          421       239       248              2 9'5      3 50               ..                   10.3         7.0    3.8       4.9
U'S $ mtillion i
CURsRENT EXPENDITUJRE DETAILS                 Actual                    Estimated              DETAIL ON                             At Av.      1972/ 73 P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)       1969/70   197-2/73- 1974/75   ~1975/76    17/7             PUBLIC SECTORFisPln                                 %oTta
Educ.tisS n                                   14.8      15.5        13.6      13.3           INVESTMENT PROGRAM                    (1973 /74   - 1977/ 78
Other Social Services                 .        4.0       4.2         4.4       4.2           Social Sectors                             758         15.3
Agriculture and                                                                              Agriculture                              1,302         26.4
Other Economic Services             .        11.2       7.2         6.8       6.7           Industry and Mining                     1,024          20.7
Administration and Defense            .       67.4      68.1        68.8      68.9           Power                                      529         10.7
Other                                           2.7      5.0         6.4       6.9           Transport and communications               802         16.3
Total Current Expenditures                   TOoo.o    100-.0      1006.0    100O. 0Other                                               524         10.6
__________________________________________________________________________ TotalTota penpenditure44,940                       100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                  1960-       1965-       1973-             FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1965  _     1970        1976                 Domestic Borrowing                      784         15.9
Aveortg ElsiciRty                                                3.74        0.89                  Public Sector Savings               2,022          40.9
Import Elasticity                     ..        ~~~~~       ~~~~        ~~1.29  1.11  Program aid counterpart          1,009         20.4
MiArginal Iomestic Savings Rate                       ..         0.22        0.05                 Foreign Project Aid                  1.125          22.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                        ..         0.35        0.05                  Total Financing                     4,940         100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                  Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per Worker(97         73   Prices & REx. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WOREEN         ~~In Millions        %  fTtal             1961 - 73          In U.S.Dollars       Pecnto'Av        g190-7
1960/61     19-72 /73 19-60 /61  19-72/73  Growth Bate         1969/70    19 72 /73   1969/70    19 72./73  Growth Nate
Agriculture                        16.1        20,5       85        78         2.0                .          166         ..76
Industry                            1.0         1.8        5         7         5.0                           Z29         ..        105
Service                             1.8         3.9     -10         15         6.7                ..          .4                   222
Total                              18.9        26.2      100       100         2.8               248         217        100        100          -4. 9
- not applicable               -nil or negligible
not available               1-8 es  than half the smallest unit shown
Note:   Figures are on fiscal year beasis (July S-june 30).     Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan
/l      These. are original plan targets.



ANNEX I
Pg 4of 4  ae
BALANCE OF   ANIl        mRLASIACA                S
(ma-to tn mllionS of U.. della. at tnt prieoo)
Actual                     ~~~~~Letlated            acte,d          Aesrega Annul Crouh Rate
1969/70    1972/73                                 19731/7                         1976 77                      9 7
SUNIWY BALANCE OP PAYIEB'TS
Epts(tool. 879)                           313        349        339        33S               381        400            423                          5.48
lworAtXANOl.A!O              '439        747 ~~~~~~-58                       -1.290        -937        -1.274                         -7.4
1539  -747  _M  2                           -         ~    ~~~~~~~-849                 8.2
Rasourca Balance ,t-)                         -124       -370        619    -                    -909       -537
Inserst (not)
Dhtoct tovootnont Incus      I25                                                                                            1
Workers' Raltato.                                          45         10          7                 1   .     2              15
Cuoroot Tro3-n r1 (t t)                                                                  _5                                                                2
Private hearct InvootYnot
Official C.p.tal Cr-nt                                    482        204        397               236        238           34                          13.6
Public 86L0 Lons4
Diebursuneot` LI                                         76        297       527               578         314           476                         16 0
-Des_    -t                                   ..          -         -10       -25               -78        -21            -31 
Not Ditbese-te                                 ,,          76        287       502                500       293            441
Other 1LT loas
tisbursr enooto                              .           0                                                  33
-Roropnynto                                   -.          ..                                               -72
Net Diobcrseaenoo..                                         .        ..          .
Capitol Teonooctiono c       t. .i                       -203         70       334              122           33            81
Choose to Net Re-eevee C - -      Oeaasp)                 -20         40      -196               30          -72           -32                              Actuol                       Etit.4
Ores, Reserves (end perded)  -  :.      102         67       26        23                  285            317AE=a9777nte
Gross Resetstes (end perted)  107         67       263              213         285            317                  1971/72    1972/73     1974/75      1975/76    1976/77
CRANT AND LOAN COMiMITKENTS
Offictal Creot.o & Grant-Like                             514        150       368              380         DBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Dbt Out.      Ditburoed          36        187        998          1.809      2,245
Public MILT L.o.n                                                                                             Intoreet on Public Debt               -          -          10             20         26
InRD                                         . .                              -                -            R.paynooto 00 Public Debt            -           _          25            67          21
IDA                                          ..          68          74     150               187           Total. Poboi Debt Service            -          -           35            87          47
Other Mulclt.-erel                           ,,          11          17       87               22           Gtber Debt Seroice (oat)
Gvenraneoco                                  ..         204         329     678               332           Totol Debt Servhc- (net)
Suppllero                                     , .        55          47      17                -
FBIn-dc I  lootItuticce                      .,          -            -       -                 9         Burden on Enport Earoin8o (X)
Rondo 
PublIc Lo.ne n e. i.                         . .                                               _            Public Debt Service                                        9.0          228        IIH
Tocte  Public M&LT Loans                         .        338         467      932              550           Total Debt Servico
TOSO-Diroct tocessc  Inc.             ..          .         ...
Actu    aki Out-auditnc    0n Juaa 30. 1976
EXTERNAL DEBT                                                      d borsdGOnly     Percent                   Av-rgo Torso of Poblic Debt
WIcrId Bank                                                  3S                     3                                                                                                   2.9
10A                                                          380                   21.0                      Itt. 00     Prlor Year    060                               2.3            2.0       1.4
Other MulclI.cerul                                            25                    1.4                       Aort. a..     PrIor YTar D06D                               5.7           6.7        1.2
Gveronoecte                                                1,250                   69.1
lupplisra                                                     90                    5.0                     IBRD Debt ou. A Disbursed
Ftnac.lu.   no Ittutions                                       g9                   05                               Z a: Public Debt 06D           -          -         5.5            3.0        2.4
4cc/c                                                         -                      -                               In PpbIic Debt Serv-co         -          _          -             1.8         7.0
PublIc Debi    . -n  i
ot. 1, Pusblic MILT Debt                                   1,809                  100.0                     IDA Debt Out. A Dinbur-d
-    an   of Public Dobt 0&D           -         8 6       25.5           21.0       27 7
-    as: Public Debt Service           -          -          3.1           2.5         t.4
STcrt-O_rn Debt Cdib, only)
oct appIlcoblb                         e    otaff eatiexto
ccc oceilahle                          -    oil or oegliBiblo
oct .coilable -op-rately but          --    1ess tibe  half the oxoll--t
Included Ic tctal                           unit ohct
Koy 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BAiNK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, i977
A.   IDA Credits to Banbladesh
US$ 1'iIlion net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number   Yeaz             -iLrpve                            Amount    Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Five Credits F7iIly Disbursed                                206..'          -
339      1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction
(repiaces Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)     2'.0          9.4
340      1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184 of 1970)                    13.0         5.8
341      1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No. 208-PAK.
of 1970)                                   14.6         3.0
343      1972    Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)              7.3         1.8
353      1973     Small-Scale Industrv (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)                 3.0         0.3
367      1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963,                  7.0         1.1
368      1973    Dacca Water Supply and Sewage (replaces
Credit Nc. 41-PAK of 1963)                 13.2         1.2
381      1973     Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                        19.7         0.3
407      1973     Education (replaces CrediLt Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and 1966)              21.G          8.2
408      1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                  25.0         14.2
409      1973    Technical Assistance                          4.0         2.2
410      1973     Cereal Seeds                                 7.5         6.5
424      1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation        8.7         2.8
487      1974     Second Telecommunications                   20.0        19.2
527      1975    Ashuganj Fertilizer                          33.0        26.9
533       1975    Population                                  15.0        13.8
542      1975    Barisal Irrigation                           27.0        26.3
591       1975    Imports Program IV                         100.0         6.4
605      1976    Karnafuli Irrigation                         22.0        19.0



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CONT'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                      Exchange Adiustment
Number   Year             Purpose                           Amount   Undisbursed
621      1976   Agricultural and Rural Training              12.0        11.9
622      1976   Technical Assistance II                       7.5         7.4
631      1976   Rural Development                            16.0        16.0
632      1976   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                       25.0        25.0
676      1977   Imports Program V                            50.0        49.5
SUBTOTAL                           702.3       278.2
Principal Repayment                                 0.4
Effective Credits held by Association             701.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087     1975    Consolidation Loan                          54.9         0
TOTAL                              756.8       278.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction ProJect:   US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and although the project is still
2-1/2 years behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. After
a pause while the shelter design was reevaluated, construction of cyclone
shelters is moving ahead. Arrangements for supervision of shelter construc-
tion still need to be strengthened. Four of the five primary roads are now
finished with the fifth road scheduled for completion in 1978. The IDA fi-
nanced portion of the feeder road program is nearing completion. Construc-
tion of towers for the telecommunications subproject is behind schedule but
this subproject should be completed by December 1977. The fisheries sub-
project, including distribution of boats to groups of local fishermen, has
been completed. All work on the repair or new construction of inland water
transport terminals is expected to be completed within a few months.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is about 30 months behind schedule due to major flooding,
work stoppages caused by 100% increase in construction labor costs, shortages
of cement and fuel, inoperable construction equipment, ineffective management,
delays in provision of local funds and general inflation. While problems re-
main, substantial progress has been made recently both in physical construction
and agricultural extension. One regulator is now operational and the second
was scheduled to be operating by the end of June. Utilization of the irriga-
tion works will be delayed due to land acquisition problems (now resolved)
which interfered with work on irrigation channels. Preparation of proposals
from the Government for recovery of irrigation water charges is seriously
behind schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 13, 1973; Closing Date: June 30.
1977
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled but some of these (about
17%) did not meet standards of verticality. Contractors have accepted lia-
bility and are rectifying the situation. Meanwhile, BADC has decided to re-
contract for 285 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construction and engine/
pump installation is now proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural develop-
ment component of the project, also behind schedule, is incorporated in the
proposed Extension and Research Project to avoid duplication or conflict
between the two projects.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;   US$7.3 Million Credit of November
15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970 and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems were expected
to be commissioned by June 1977, two years behind schedule. The contract for
the fourth microwave system (which substitutes the coaxial cable system in the
original project) has been awarded together with a contract for similar systems
under Credit 487-BD. This system is expected to be commissioned by June
1978. The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30,
1978.
Cr. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry ProJect; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973: Effective Date: May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is administered by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and a consortium of commercial banks. Dis-
bursements up to April 25, 1977 amount to approximately US$2.7 million.
While the credit was fully committed by the end of 1974, agreements by
suppliers to provide equipment were cancelled in a few cases and new sup-
pliers had to be found. In early 1976, IDA therefore agreed to extend the
Closing Date by nine months to allow for disbursements under outstanding
letters of credit. To permit all credit funds to be disbursed, a further
extension of the Closing Date, from March 31, 1977 to December 31, 1977 has
just been made. An IDA mission visited Bangladesh in March 1977 to explore
with the Government ways and means for improving BSCIC activities and to form
a basis for a further operation involving BSCIC and commercial banks.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project was originally financed under IDA Credit No. 42-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.3 million
had been disbursed. After two~ years of organizational and procurement dif-
ficulties, progress in 1976 and 1977 to date has been satisfactory. The
project is now expected to reach completion by September 1977, over 2 years
behind the schedule established in 1973. Despite substantial rate increases
and improvements in billings and collections, WASA's financial problems are
still acute because of high operating costs and the large quantity of non-
revenue water. Satisfactory progress has been made in most areas of an agreed
action program to improve the financial situation, but no decision has yet been
taken on how to deal with the Government agencies' and municipalities' arrears
to Chittagong WASA or for payment for water supplied through public hydrants.
Revenue requirements are expected to increase in FY78 because the project will
be completed and the Authority must begin repaying the Government loans for
the project. Therefore, a further increase in tariffs is expected to be re-
quired. IDA agreed in June 1976 to a second extension of the Closing Date
to June 30, 1977 but informed the Government that consideration of a further
extension beyond June 30, 1977 would be dependent upon further actions taken
to make the Authority financially viable.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963. By December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$6.0 million
had been disbursed. The work progressed slowly for two years due to orga-
nizational and procurement difficulties but has been satisfactory in 1976
and 1977. The project is expected to be completed by December 1977, about
2-1/2 years behind the schedule established in 1973. However, the financial
condition of the WASA remains very weak despite substantial rate increases and
improvements in billings and collection. The situation is similar to that
described for Chittagong under Credit 367-BD and IDA has informed the Govern-
ment that consideration of a further extension of the-Closing Date beyond June
30, 1977 would be dependent upon further actions taken to make the Authority
financially viable.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18.
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is also financed by credits from the Kingdom of Sweden
totalling 30.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by US$19.2
million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the King-
dom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time of Bangladesh's



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
independence, and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish credits was used for
repaying the previous credits. Substantial delays occurred in hiring consult-
ants and in design and construction of ancilliary civil works. In addition,
there was serious deterioration in the silos' mechanical equipment due to
inadequate maintenance and management, under-staffing in the Directorate of
Silos and delays in ordering spare parts. Since January 1976 however, signi-
ficant progress has been made in accordance with an action program agreed
with IDA/SIDA, particularly in constructing ancillary civil works and staffing
the project agency; one silo has been put back into operation, consulting
services for a silo maintenance improvement program have been obtained and
jetty rehabilitation started in February 1977. Therefore, the Association
agreed to a third extension of the Closing Date to September 30, 1977, by
which time the project is expected to be completed.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the proj-
ect is about two years behind schedule due to initial difficulties in reaching
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract, shortages
of building materials and delays in the preparation of equipment lists and
furniture designs. However, significant progress has been made beginning in
late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction are expected to
be completed by August 1977 and the remaining works by July 1979. The Uni-
versity has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural training
and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural and
rural development but further progress in this direction is needed. The
technical education portion of the project is about 18 months behind schedule,
due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by December 1977. The
graduates are facing problems of unemployment and a committee has been esta-
blished to revise the curriculum to make it more relevant to job requirements.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project was originally financed by IDA Credit No. 53-PAK. By
December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$3.62 million had been
disbursed. Shortage of spare parts, administrative delays and deficiencies
in some contractors' performance have delayed certain elements of the project.
Progress on construction of the Sitalakhya Bridge is improving and it is ex-
pected to be completed in early 1978. The paving of the Feni bypass road is
not likely to start before January 1978 due to delays on the part of two
contractors in completing the earth works. Disbursements, which in the past
have been slow, show signs of improvement.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No..409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects with an allocation from this Credit of about US$3.6 million. Approval
is expected shortly for a contract negotiated with consultants for one addi-
tional subproject of about US$0.3 million. Completed studies have played a key
role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing, including the Ashuganj
Fertilizer Project and the Rural Development Project. Due to delays in initial
commitment of credit funds, disbursements are two to three years behind initial
estimates. The Closing Date for this Credit was extended by two years, to
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule,implemen-
tation has improved considerably in recent months. Because of severe price
escalation, the percentage of IDA financing of local construction costs has
been reduced. Orders for farm machinery and laboratory equipment have recently
been placed, but contract negotiations with the lowest bidder for the seed
processing plants have broken down and a proposal for simplification of plant
design is currently under consideration. After substantial initial delays,
work is now proceeding well on improvements at the seed multiplication farm's
and production of seed, especially wheat, is increasing as a result.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Amending Agreement of October 17, 1975 increased the amount
of the credit from US$4.1 million to US$8.7 million to finance the new oil
transfer system at Chittagong. Procurement of spare parts and equipment was
slow initially but almost all funds for these purposes have now been committed.
Regarding the repair of the Chittagong off-shore oil terminal, detailed inves-
tigations indicated that the damage was more severe than previously believed.
Consultants were appointed late in 1973 to study alternative technical solu-
tions. An Amending Agreement modifying the project description in line with
the consultants' recommendations, and providing a supplementary Credit of
US$4.6 million, was approved by the Executive Directors on September 16, 1975
and signed on October 17, 1975. Two used tankers have been procured and re-
paired, and are being equipped for lighterage service at Chittagong. They are
expected to be put into operation during July 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Miion Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30. 1979
The project is 18 months behind schedule due to delays in procurement
and civil works. Thirty percent of the original target for the first two years
has been achieved on the local telephone network. Work on the long-distance
telephone network has yet to commence. A Telegraph and Telephone Board has
been established, a year behind schedule. Consultants financed under the
Credit are assisting the T&T Board in establishing a commercial accounting
system and valuation of assets.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA Credit. Site preparation
work, including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site will be carried out to protect the
plant against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about 18 months be-
hind schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial
slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning
for construction. Revised cost estimates are being finalized allowing for
the additional site work and the delays.
Cr. No. 533    Population ProJect:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; field staff is being recruited with special incentive payments
offered for some crucial personnel. The Population Program Officers, who are
responsible for the population programs of five non-health ministries, have
been trained abroad and have initiated schemes of their respective ministries.
The Building, Planning and Design Unit of the Ministry of Health, with the
assistance of consultants, has completed a master plan for the project's con-
struction program and building designs have been finalized; contracts for
construction are being awarded. The Government is proceeding with the selec-
tion of required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project.
However, because of institutional and coordination problems, the implementa-
tion of a few project components is some months behind schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31. 1980
The project is behind schedule due to delays in hiring project
consultants and assignment of Water Development staff members to the
project, and delays in land acquisition. The staffing position improved in
March 1976 and field survey and design activities are now progressing. Prin-
cipal field activities have been survey work, procurement of materials and
housing and office construction. Two pilot areas have been developed which
have been useful in testing the project concept and in identifying potential
problems. Construction of irrigation channels has been delayed by problems
of land acquisition.
Cr. No. 591     Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
Disbursements amounted to US$93.6 million as of April 30, 1977,
and, in addition, letters of credit guaranteed by IDA amount to US$4.0 million.
The remaining US$2.5 million represents letters of credit below US$20,000 for
which IDA guarantee had not been requested. All orders are expected to be
received by the Closing Date. The requirements under the action programs for
the jute and textiles industries have been met.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness is limited by delays in
procurement of vehicles and equipment. Work is now underway to prepare con-
struction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been negotiated, and is awaiting Government approval.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. Most sites, with the exception of only three thana substations,
have been selected and acquired. Progress has also been achieved in the prep-
aration of sketch plans for project buildings and the Government has been
working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra Rural Development
Academy. The inservice training program supported under project has been
delayed due to delays in allocation of local funds. Delays are being exper-
ienced in hiring consultants for the project.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Consultants are working on the first subproject authorized under
this credit, a water development study of the Southwest region. The
Bangladesh Bank has invited consultant proposals for a second subproject,
an agricultural credit study. Initial work is underway on a third project
involving feasibility of using jute fiber as a cotton substitute.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The reorganization of pump groups into cooperatives under the
Integrated Rural Development Program is being completed, and adequate progress
has been achieved in rescheduling loans. As part of a nationwide effort to
revitalize the extension system, modifications are being introduced to the
project's agricultural extension system. Procurement under various project
components, benchmark and fish pond surveys, land and draft animal registration
are in progress. After some initial delays, the construction of feeder roads
and thana buildings is proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 63.    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Proiect; US$25.0 million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1977, IDA had authorized withdrawals from the
Credit totalling US$0.8 million. It is anticipated that the Credit will be
fully committed by December 1978, the final authorization date, and that
disbursements will be completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$50 million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of April 30, 1977, disbursements were US$0.5 million. In addi-
tion about US$33 million of letters of credit have been issued.



ANNEX III
Page I
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Time Table of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
5 months (October 1975/February 1976)
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA),
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation (BIWTC)
and IDA
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
During pre-appraisal mission in February 1976
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
IDA pre-appraisal mission of February 1976
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
October 1976. A follow-up appraisal mission visited
Bangladesh in March 1977.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
May 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1977
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.        Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) by December 31, 1977, specialists will be appointed, with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA, to assist in strengthening
planning and project preparation, in improving cargo vessel
deployment, cargo handling operations and communications,
and in improving the accounting and finances of BIWTA and
BIWTC (para. 48).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) by December 31, 1978 a draft medium-term investment plan
for inland water transport will be prepared and furnished
to IDA (para. 48);
(c) by December 31, 1978, plans for the financial restructuring
of BIWTA and BIWTC will be furnished to IDA for comments
and, by June 30, 1979 these plans will be implemented (para 48);
(d) by June 30, 1978, audited reports of the accounts of BIWTA
and BIWTC in respect of fiscal years 1973/74 through 1976/77
will be furnished to IDA (para 48).
B.        Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) the Government has approved the Project Proforma
for the project (para 57); and
(b) the Government has made financial arrangements for passing
on the proceeds of the credit allocated to BIWTA and BIWTC
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 57).



It -  N D I A                BANGLADESH
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
-Prieray R.a.s
----Oth. Roads
-----a-.-- R,aiy Mter.Gaugeg
P  Principal Fe-.,e
R  C  N  Q  ~i  X                     'Main C-asralandinland Wate Rante.
---- sritBoundaries
-j Jl r r\ 0  terriar l Boundaries
0  _ , ; aS ' .                       f k +f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I2n,a /:
(   ,,  W                4                                   r<   t.d S       j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ch..
PAKIST25 g   r  h-T k  _> f  1  r25
B  R ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~      
,> _ESUTAr t4 F, Iar 2h 0                    \oh G ur            >J V   -  -  F   Lr
$?  Menereur  ,>~,  ~ 'PanasS  -  ~    I              -'-I      N   D   I  A
\  jfv  0        IJelo<  ' {;   , 20 3G 4G 50   1 .                   21
ESSE                             -ANpA t; b " 2 , D 4D 6 , 'I2' r  r
'N50f ~ -   Ch D  I1 AIRTRNSOR
-22-                                                              CHITTAG~~~CIs ll  uarsO FIOI
1.  /4  (r.,a,.eel                               ~~  ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  d   i
INDIA                      .   17w. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ay of  Ben g al -
0  10  20  30  490  50
Bay                                 2.0 Ige/  ~ o  so                          I
90-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 



