CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 735 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Inland Water Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 30, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 735 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1977, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hvreinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project in part will be carried out by Bangladesh
Inland Water Transport Authority and Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Bangladesh
Inland Water Transport Authority and Bangladesh Inland Water
Transport Corporation part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Crecit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Authority" means Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Authority, established under the Inland Water Transport Authority
Ordinance of 1958; and
(b) "Corporation" means Bangladesh Inland Water Transport
Corporation, established under the Presidential Order No. 28
of March 26, 1972.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the.purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1987, and ending June 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to
be carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated under Categories (2) and (3) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement available to the
Authority and the Corporation, respectively, under financial
arrangements to be made by the Borrower on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall, by December 31,
1977 or such other date as the Association may agree, employ or
cause to be employed, specialists whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards


﻿- 6 -
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿-7-
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1977 or
such other date as the Association may agree furnish to the
Association a list of spare parts to be procured under Part B of
the Project.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Ports Shipping
and Inland Water Transport Division of its Ministry of Communica-
tions, the Authority and the Corporation to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices their operations and financial condi-
tion related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Authority and the Corpora-
tion to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year commencing with the fiscal year 1977-78, (A)
certified copies of their financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Authority and the Corporation and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, (i) by December 31, 1978,
or such other date as the Association may agree, cause the Ports
Shipping and Inland Water Transport Division of its Ministry -f
Communications to furnish to the Association the draft medium-term
investment program referred to in Part C (i) of the Project.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, by December 31, 1978, furnish to the Associa-
tion for its comments plans for the financial restructuring of the
Authority and the Corporation, respectively, referred to in Part C
(ii) and (iii) of the Project, and shall, by June 30, 1979 imple-
ment said plans.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1978, or such
other date as the Association may agree, cause to be furnished to
the Association the audited reports of the accounts of the Author-
ity and the Corporation in respect of fiscal years 1973/74 through
1976/77.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdication shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of the Authority or the Corpora-
tion, or for the suspersion of the operations of the Authority or
the Corporation, unless arrangements satisfactory to the Associa-
tion shall have been made to replace it by another body which will
assume and perform all its functions in respect of the Project and
covenants applicable under this Agreement upon any such dissolu-
tion, disestablishment or suspension.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has approved the Project Proforma for the
proposed Project; and
(b) the Borrower has made the financial arrangements
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date December 29, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twelve years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addrcsses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division,
Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the
People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ M.R. Siddiqi
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and percentage of expendi-
tures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         Z of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) For the Ministry of
Communications (Ports
Shipping and Inland
Water Transport
Division):
(a) equipment and               300,000        100% of foreign
materials                                 expenditures
(b) technical services          220,000        100%
(2) For the Authority:
(a) equipment, materials      1,600,000
and spares
(i) directly                              100% of foreign
imported                             expenditures
(ii) manufactured                          100% of local
locally                              expenditures
ex-factory
(iii) imported equip-                       50%
ment procured
locally


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) technical services          240,000       100%
(3) For the Corporation:
(a) equipment, materials      1,500,000
and spares
(i) directly                             100% of foreign
imported                            expenditures
(ii) manufactured                         100% of local
locally                             expenditures
ex-factory
(iii) imported equip-                      50%
ment procured
locally
(b) technical services          260,000       100%
(4) Unallocated                      880,000
TOTAL          5,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture,.procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to improve the overall efficiency of the
inland water transport system and consists of the following:
Part A:
The acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials
for cargo vessels and for the improvement of the telecommunica-
tions system and of cargo handling operations and facilities,
including mobile cranes for use on river-side jetties at Dacca
and Khulna.
Part B:
The improvement of the efficiency of existing vessels of
the Corporation and the Authority, and navigation and hydrographic
equipment of the Authority, through provision of spare parts.
Part C:
The utilization of technical services for: (i) the streng-
thening of the planning and project preparation units, including
the data collection systems, in the Ports Shipping and Inland
Water Transport Division of the Borrower's Ministry of Communica-
tions, the Authority and the Corporation; preparation of a draft
medium-term investment program for the inland water transport
sector; and assessing the need for additional equipment for the


﻿- 19 -
telecommunications systems; (ii) the preparation of a plan for the
improvement of the Authority's accounting system, financial struc-
ture and management; and the improvement of cargo handling and
facilities; and (iii) the preparation of a plan for the improvement
of the Corporation's accounting system, financial structure and
management; and the improvement of cargo vessel deployment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines) on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Spare parts may be procured on the basis of negotiated
contracts from the suppliers of the original equipment.
2.   Contracts for spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $5,000 or less may be let through normal government procedures,
provided that the aggregate of such contracts shall not exceed
$50,000 equivalent.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods; (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and


﻿- 21 -
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall he excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bangladesh equal
to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Bangladesh.


﻿- 22 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as
a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 23 -
D.   1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received (together with, in
respect of equipment to be procured under Part A of the Project
except the mobile cranes, the recommendations for award by the
specialists referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement) and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 24 -
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With resp,ct to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


