Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13828
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2960-BR)
DECEMBER 29, 1994
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             Cruzeiro Real (Cr$)1
Cr$1.00      =      Cz$1,000.00
US$1.00      =      Cr$1,8502
Cr$1.00      =     US$0.001
The Cruzeiro Real was introduced in November 1993, replacing the Cruzeiro (Cr$) at one thousand-to-one
ratio. The Cr$, which replaced and was equal to one cruzado (NCz$), was Brazil's currency from March
15, 1990 until the end of November 1993.
2 At June 1, 1994
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BACEN        -     Banco Central do Brasil - Central Bank of Brazil
BTN          -     Bonus do Tesouro Nacional - National Treasury Bond
CD           -      Certificate of Deposit
CLC          -      Comite de Limites de Credito - Credit Limits Committee
DTN          -     Departamento do Tesouro Nacional - National Treasury Department
FEBRABAN  -        Federacao Brasileira das Associacoes de Bancos
Brazilian Federation of Bankers' Associations
IGP-DI       -     Indice Geral dos Precos-Disponibilidade Interna
General Price Index - Domestic Supply
IPC          -      Indice de Precos do Conswnidor - Consumer Price Index
MCA          -     Manual de Credito Agro-Industrial - Agro-industrial Credit Manual
ORTN         -      Obligacoes Readjustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury
PB           -     Participating Bank
PNDA         -     Programa Nacional de Desenvolvimento Agroindustrial
National Program of Agro-Industrial Development
PNDR         -     Programa Nacional de Desenvolvimento Rural
Notional Program of Rural Development
PRONAGRI -         Programa Nacional de Asistencia Agroindustrial
National Program of Assistance to Agro-Industries
SNCR         -     Sistema Nacional de Credito Rural - National Rural Credit System
STN          -     Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional - National Treasury Secretariat
SUDAM        -     Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Amazonia
Amazon development superintendency.
TRD          -      Taixa Referencial Diaria - Daily Reference Rate



THE WORLD BANKFOOFIALUENY
Washington, D.C. 20433         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evalustion                                                            December 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Fourth AMro-Industries Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Brazil-Fourth Agro-Industries
Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office,
with Part II contributed by the Borrower. The project was twinned with the Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 2971-BR) which has similar objectives, scale, design and experience.
The project aimed to support productive agro-industrial investments and to liberalize
credit in the agricultural sector, with a US$300 million loan mostly for local expenditures.
The Bank's support was considered essential at a time when uncertainty and high inflation were
disrupting financial intermediation such that long-term finance had virtually disappeared.
Implementation was driven by pent up demand for credit and rapid commitment, since
local currency loans were under-indexed for inflation. There followed disqualification of a large
number of the disbursed loans, and of 4 of the 14 participating banks (PBs), because of irregularities;
the use of these recovered funds for supplementary financing to restore the real value of qualifying
sub-loans; cash flow problems for the Treasury and PBs because of inadequate indexation;
considerable difficulties in sub-loan supervision and financial reporting; the decision of government to
direct a large proportion of the funds to ethanol plants (which the Bank had earlier judged
uneconomic after oil prices collapsed in 1986), and substantial foreign exchange losses to the
Treasury until local currency loans were discontinued. Bank supervision of the project was infrequent
and slow to deal with problems, lacked Bank staff continuity, relied too heavily on a single
consultant, and blurred reporting by lumping the twin projects together.
The PCR is frank in detailing this experience, but concludes that the project had good
overall results, noting that a majority of the sub-projects are performing well. However, little
information is provided on the portfolio and its quality, beyond stating that there are no significant
debt service problems, or on the portfolio's impact on the PBs. In contrast to this overall conclusion,
the PCR suggests that a (possible) fifth project is unlikely to be effective as long as high and volatile
inflation and general macro-economic instability continue to distort Brazil's financial markets.
Given the poor performance of the credit system, capital erosion and the significant
uneconomic investments, the outcome of the project is rated by OED as unsatisfactory with sustain-
ability as uncertain. Institutional impact was negligible. The main lesson learned is not new and
echoes current guidelines: the Bank should hesitate to lend for credit lines to countries where inflation
is high.
An audit of the two projects is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2960-BR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE .                     ...............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................... id
Objectives . .............................................. ii
Implementation Experience   ....................................   ii
Results ................................................ iv
Lessons Learned .......................................... iv
Sustainability ............................................. v
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ..............  1
Project Identity  .                 ..........................................  1
Project Background .                    ......................................... 1
Project Objectives ..........................................   2
Project Description and Organization   ..............................   3
Relations to Other Bank Loans  ..................................   6
Project Implementation  .......................................   6
The Bank's Performance ...................................... 12
Project Results .               ............................................ 12
Lessons Learned .......................................... 15
Sustainability ............................................. 16
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ........ 18
Project Implementation ....................................... 18
Project Results ...........                                                                                             19
m. SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA .......................... 20
1. Related Bank Loans ...................................... 20
2.  Project Timetable  ........................................ 21
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .....................  21
4. Project Cost and Financing .................................. 22
5. Use of Bank Resources .................................... 23
6. Project Results .....................................                                                               24
7. Status of Main Legal Covenants ............................... 27
8.  Agro-industrial Credit by Type of Borrower   .......................  28
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2960-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project-Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Agro-industries Credit
Project, Loan 2960-BR, which was approved on June 16, 1988. The approved Loan amount
was US$300 million for a total project cost of US$600 million, with US$300 million in
counterpart funding to be financed by beneficiaries of sub-loans and participating banks in
freely negotiated proportions. The purpose of the Loan was to provide investment finance to
agro-industrial enterprises, at a time term finance for investment had virtually disappeared in
Brazil's unstable economic environment.
2.    The Loan and Project Agreements are dated May 31, 1989. The Loan became
effective on August 22, 1989. The last disbursement took place in mid-December 1992,
shortly before the Loan closed, on December 31, 1992. After cancellation of
US$58,395,758.53 of the Loan on May 26, 1993, actual disbursements by the Bank amount
to US$241.604.241,47, or 80.5 percent of the original loan amount.
3.    Part I of this PCR is the work of the Environment and Agriculture Division of
Country Department I (LA1EA) of the LAC region. It is based on the findings of a field
visit in November 1993, as well as on the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the
Loan and Project Agreements, Bank Supervision Reports, audit reports of the audit unit of
the Federal Treasury in Brasilia (STN), other project documents, including project-related
memoranda and correspondence. Part II was prepared by STN.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2960-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project was designed to follow up on the Third Agro-Industries Credit Project
(PRONAGRI -- Loan 2268-BR), which closed on December 31, 1989, after a one-year
extension. The main thrust of PRONAGRI had been to support the government's program to
reduce distortions in the trade of agro-industrial products. PRONAGRI also supported the
creation of more efficient, market-based financing for agro-industry, and improvements in
the commercial banks' ability to evaluate and supervise projects in that field.
2.    The aim of Loan 2960-BR (PNDA), the fourth-generation agro-industrial project, was
to ensure continuity in the availability of long-term investment credit for agro-industry, a
sector of major importance in Brazil's economy. The Bank's support in this area was
essential, at a time when uncertainty and high inflation were disrupting economic activity and
financial intermediation. PNDA supported the resumption of term lending and financial
liberalization, by setting targets for the reduction of official credit for agro-industry over a
three-year period (1988-1990), and replacing it with voluntary lending by commercial banks,
at market rates. The project ran in tandem with another Loan -- the Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 2971-BR -- PNDR) -- which provided term credit for farmers and sought to
reduce official agricultural credit.
3.   In designing PNDA and PNDR, the Bank was able to consolidate its financial support
for agriculture and agro-industry under two credit lines. This was a departure from the
earlier practice of including agricultural or rural-credit components in large projects. Both
projects also sought to achieve additional objectives: (i) promote financial intermediation at
market rates and help restore term lending by commercial banks; (ii) reduce the fiscal burden
agricultural-credit subsidies through official credit; and (iii) do away with the regressive
aspect of allocating scarce fiscal resources to subsidized credit, instead of social programs.
Implementation Experience
4.    Despite an encouraging start, and the loan's success in achieving its policy objective
of reducing official credit for agro-industry, a number of facts stand out with regard to the
project's implementation. They are: (i) the project's two-stage implementation and problems
in indexing and pricing sub-loans; (ii) flaws in the mechanism to allocate funds to
participating banks (PBs); (iii) the consequences for STN, PBs and beneficiaries of delays in
replenishing the Special Account; (iv) the refinancing of sub-loans to beneficiaries that may



iii
have had access to alternative sources of term finance; (v) certain problems with loan
supervision; and (vi) the large number declassifications of disbursed subloans, and
suspensions of PB accreditation. STN's 1992/1993 Audit Report also states that six of the
PBs did, on occasion, violate some of the environmental standards and laws that apply to
agro-industrial activities.
5.    These problems were compounded by the fact that the project's implementation
started during a period of intense macroeconomic instability and hyper-inflation. This
explains why there was a 20 percent shortfall in loan disbursements -- only US$241.6 million
were disbursed, on the loan amount of US$300 million. Implementation experience is
reviewed in detail in the next section. Suffice it, at this point, to focus on some key aspects.
6.    Currency options, the phased implementation of the loan, and delays in replenishing
the Special Account. At the PBs' and sub-borrowers' option, refinancing could be in the
Bank's Currency Pool (option A), in U.S. dollars (option B), or in local currency (option C).
The loan was implemented in two phases. Disbursements on all contracts signed between
October 1989 and September 1990 were under option C. Unfortunately, lending in Cruzados
was ill-adapted to an environment of extreme exchange rate volatility and hyper-inflation of
more than 30 percent per month, especially so because technical and legal problems caused
occasional delays in the release of funds by STN. Under the circumstances, any delays in
disbursing committed sub-projects caused financing gaps for PB sub-borrowers, while after
disbursement, Cruzado loans contained an implicit subsidy to borrowers. That is because the
inflation-correction index (the value of the National Treasury Bonds -- BTN) of the amount
owed by PBs to STN lagged behind actual inflation. Until 1991, when a new indexation
mechanism (TRD) replaced BTN, the subsidy to end-users of PNDA resulted in a foreign-
exchange-rate loss for STN, because there was a mismatch the between value of STN's
Cruzado assets and that of the government's borrowing from the Bank in the Currency Pool.
7.    Option C was discontinued in October 1990. But, because the Bank's Currency Pool
(Option A) is complicated and contains unhedgeable foreign-exchange risk, there was only
limited demand for it. Practically all second-phase financing has been in US dollars, much
of it to restore the real value of first-phase loans, and raise the Bank's share of funding to 50
percent of project costs. This has enabled beneficiaries to complete projects that would
otherwise have been in jeopardy.
8.    The allocation of funds. The project followed the customary first-come-first-served
method. Because Option C was considered attractive, there was high competition among PBs
during the first phase of implementation. Under the circumstances, the allocation mechanism
favored major banks that already had a pipeline of sub-projects. Moreover, because there
was a free limit of US$5 million for disbursement by STN, some PBs with limited prior
involvement in agribusiness financed few, but large sub-projects, in one case for a related
multinational corporation that might have had access to alternative sources of funds.



iv
9.    The problem of loan declassifications. Although more than 50 PBs had been
accredited by BACEN, only fourteen actually participated in the project. Of the participating
PBs, eight out of fourteen have, from time to time, failed to comply with the projects criteria
on eligible expenses, and had some of their subloans cancelled. Because the principal
amount of cancelled loans must be repaid to the Special Account, loan cancellations partly
account for the shortfall in actual disbursements on the loan.
10.   Though most instances of non-compliance with eligible expenses were benign and
accidental (e.g., mistakenly financing ineligible investments, such as vehicles and
computers), others involved severe irregularities, including false expenditure documents, and
using PNDA funds to refinance existing loans that were in arrears. In such cases, BACEN
had to suspend the accreditation of the PBs involved (in fact, four of the original 14 PBs) and
they can no longer refinance any of their sub-projects with PNDA funds. Some loan
cancellations are being appealed with the National Monetary Council, and repayment is still
pending.
11.   One special case involves Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo (BNCC) - the
fourth largest participant in PNDA, with 12 subprojects still outstanding, for an amount of
US$6.5 million BNCC has been in bankruptcy status and awaiting liquidation since
September 1991. Banco do Brasil has agreed to take over BNCC's entire portfolio of PNDA
(and PNDR) subloans, including its associated liabilities to the Treasury.
Results
12.   Together with PNDA, this project achieved its goal of assisting the reform and
liberalization of rural financial markets. The volume of official, government-funded agro-
industrial credit at subsidized interest rates dropped faster than planned during the three-year
target period of 1988-90, and has continued thereafter. In 1990, actual official credit was
actually US$214 million below the target for that year (see Table 2 below). As a result, real
and nominal interest rates on agro-industrial credit have also become more positive than
before the Loan had become effective. Since January 1991 they have averaged 16 percent
per annum, plus monetary correction, for sub-projects financed in Cruzeiros.
13.   As regards participation in the project, 14 PBs have already financed close to 300
individual sub-projects. After including counterpart funds, the average size of sub-projects
was US$1.6 million equivalent. Though a large part of PNDA funds went to sub-projects
involving the refining of sugar-cane for the production of ethanol, PNDA has also financed
engineering and agro-industry infrastructure, including warehouses, silos and food-processing
plants.
Lessons Learned
14.   Experience with implementation to-date contains some lessons for the future of this
project and of a possible fifth-generation agro-industrial loan, if any.



V
a.    All future lending should be in US dollars to minimize the impact of exchange-
rate fluctuations on the value of sub-loans and flow of repayments to STN.
b.    Participation can and should be broadened. Although more than 50 PBs had
been accredited by BACEN, only fourteen actually participated in the project.
c.    There should be a more transparent and equitable procedure for the allocation
of PNDA funds for second-generation sub-projects (from the reflow of funds
on existing sub-projects to STN's pool). The Bank and STN have agreed in
principle that the best approach would be to auction PNDA funds that are now
in STN's pool. That agreement should be finalized, and submitted for review
to the National Monetary Council.
d.    Local project supervision should be improved by making the various data
bases on PNDA disbursements compatible with one another.
e.    STN should take steps to provide information on loan implementation and
results, as requested by the Bank.
f.    Given the large number of banks whose accreditation was suspended, BACEN
should revisit its rules for, and follow up of accreditation, so as to ensure that
new PBs can participate in the second round of lending.
Sustainability
15.   Some of the implementation problems raise questions about the sustainability and
future replicability of this project. Not least is the fact that, of the participating PBs, quite a
few have consistently failed to comply with PNDA's criteria on eligible expenses, to the
point of losing their accreditation and ability to continue to on-lend PNDR funds. In
addition, the fact that only 14 out of 50 accredited banks have used PNDA shows that
participation has been below its potential. It is likely that credit auctions will broaden
interest among accredited banks in the second round of PNDA refinancing. As for a possible
Fifth Agro-Industries Credit, it should only be considered if and when there is full assurance
that macro-economic stability can be restored. Indeed, it is pointless to expect meaningful
financial deepening or liberalization in an unstable macroeconomic environment that
systematically distorts financial intermediation.



PROJECT COMPLEMON REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2960-BR)
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name                    Fourth Agro-Industries Credit Project
Loan Number             2960-BR
RVP Unit          :     Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country                 Brazil
Sector                  Agro-Industry
Project Background
1.    The capacity and organization of agro-industry are important for Brazil's economy. At
the time the loan was appraised, agro-industry accounted for one half of all industrial
enterprises in the country, and for over one quarter of value added in industry. Agro-
industrial enterprises are a major source of employment in rural areas, as well as a vehicle
for technological innovation, through advanced construction, engineering and processing
techniques. Last, but not least, agro-industry is a vital complement to, and source of support
for, agriculture: it makes several agricultural products -- among them, soybean, poultry,
paper pulp, wood products and orange juice -- that are highly competitive in world markets.
2.    Agro-industry comprises a wide range of subsectors whose activities and products
include food processing and beverages, fiber processing (in the textile industry), wood
processing (for timber, pulp, paper, cardboard, laminates, etc.), extractive products (such as
natural rubber), leather, tobacco, and sugar and sugar derivatives (including ethanol for the
production of the gasohol automotive fuel). Though food processing dominates the sector by
added value (over one third of agro-industrial output) and the number of establishments
(close to two thirds), wood and wood products, and the production of ethanol have a more
visible presence. For example Brazil's wood-product industry -- especially paper pulp --
operates state-of-the art tree nurseries, plantations, wood-treatment plants and pulp mills.
Brazil now ranks among the leading producers and exporters of paper pulp (cellulose).
3.    Agro-industry is dispersed unevenly in geographical terms. The south and southeast,
which are the principal agricultural production areas, account for close to 80 percent of agro-
industrial establishments, including most industrial forests and pulp mills. In contrast, the
north and northeast represent about 20 percent, and in the center-west agro-industry is of
marginal importance.



2
4.    Given the importance of agro-industry in Brazil's economy, and the long tradition of
state intervention in the economy, credit for agro-industry has generally come from official
sources, at subsidized interest rates. The rationale for subsidized credit is that it helps
promote exports and creates employment. The focus on exports, and willingness to subsidize
export-oriented sectors, must be put in the context of the need to generate large current-
account surpluses, in order to service Brazil's huge external debt.
5.    Despite the important place of agro-industry and agribusiness in Brazil's economy,
there have been but few attempts to adapt financial intermediation to producers' needs, and
there is too little financial innovation. The main reasons for this are (i) the emphasis on
directed, subsidized credit, (ii) the dominant position of Banco do Brazil, an official Federal
bank, as the largest supplier of subsidized agricultural credit, and (iii) antiquated laws and
regulations that stand in the way of financial innovation and the provision of nonbank sources
of credit at market rates. For example:
a.    Laws and regulations governing non-bank sources of credit are outdated and
lack flexibility. A case in point is the unwieldy warehousing system, governed
by the Lei de Almazenes of 1972. That law prohibits the use of negotiable
commodity warrants that confer title to warehoused commodities. This is an
obstacle to diversifying credit.
b.    Under current conditions, agricultural producers and agro-industry cannot
hedge price risk in the futures' market, because the lack of transferable title
makes future sales virtually impossible. The result is that domestic inputs to
agro-industry are often priced less competitively than imported inputs.
c.    The 1972 warehousing law also establishes a state monopoly for the quality
certification of commodities. This has had an adverse impact on the trade in
agricultural commodities (and makes it more difficult to obtain crop pre-
financing by agro-industrial buyers and exporters) because there is little trust
in the integrity and professional qualifications of government inspectors.
6.    Those various factors point to the need to create a legal and regulatory framework
that can help modernize financial intermediation, make it more efficient and less costly, and
adapt it to the needs of major sectors of the economy, including agriculture and agro-
industry. Because PNDA and its companion project, PNDR, have relied exclusively on the
country's traditional financial intermediaries -- commercial banks, Banco do Brasil and
federal development banks -- they have only had a limited impact on financial innovation and
the cost of financial intermediation.
Project Objectives
7.    At the time the loan was appraised Brazil faced a severe fiscal crisis that was
exacerbated by the strain of having to support large credit-subsidy programs for agriculture



3
and agro-industry. The government was, therefore, keen to find ways to reduce that fiscal
burden, and welcomed the Bank's support for more active involvement of commercial banks
in agricultural credit markets. The government also sought to ensure continuity with the
Third Agro-industries Credit Project (Loan 2268-BR) of 1983.
8.    PNDA and PNDR are similar in design and had the same basic technical features.
But, they targeted different beneficiaries. PNDA only financed new investments in, and
working capital for, agro-industry. PNDR, for its part, promoted rural development by
providing investment credit and working capital for farmers and cooperatives.
9.    Given the conditions in Brazil's financial system at the time of appraisal, PNDA's
main policy objectives were to:
a.    Promote sustainable economic growth by providing funding for productivity-
boosting investment in the agro-industrial sector, that plays an important role
in Brazil's domestic market and foreign trade.
b.    Together with PNDR, streamline the Bank's lending to agriculture and agro-
industry by consolidating it in two dedicated credit lines.
c.    Gradually phase out directed official credit at subsidized interest rates -- and
the associated fiscal burden for the Government -- by setting a three-year
target for the reduction in the volume of official credit, and increasing agro-
industry's reliance on borrowing from commercial sources.
d.    More generally, make financial intermediation more efficient and responsive to
borrowers' needs by fostering a culture of voluntary, long-term commercial
lending, at market rates for productive investment.
10.  In seeking to reduce official involvement in financial intermediation PNDA was an
integral part of the Bank's policy dialogue with the Brazilian Government. To achieve that
objective, the Bank's loan had to help bridge the gap between what commercial banks could
do (provide short-term loans) and what was needed for productive investment in agroindustry
Oong-term credit).
Project Description and Organization
11.   The project went to appraisal in December 1987, at the time the Third Agro-
Industries Credit Project was approaching closing. The purpose of structuring a fourth-
generation follow-up project was to provide continuity in long-term investment lending to
agro-industrial enterprises. In Brazil's highly unstable macro-economic environment of the
late 1980s, commercial banks were no longer willing or able to provide anything but short-
term credit. This meant that productive investment had to be financed almost exclusively by
official credit institutions. Because interest rates on official credit were controlled and loans



4
allocated administratively, that system was costly to the government, and the allocation of
scarce financial resources sub-optimal. The practice of providing credit at subsidized rates
was also highly regressive from the point of view of income distribution: scarce official
resources were being allocated to non-priority areas, rather than social programs and poverty
reduction.
12.   PNDA resources have been used by the Government of Brazil (the borrower), acting
through BACEN and STN, to refinance sub-loans, made by accredited PBs to agro-industrial
enterprises. Sub-loans could only finance up to 50 percent of any beneficiary eligible fixed
investments and associated working-capital requirements. The matching 50 percent in
counterpart funds had to be provided by the beneficiaries and PBs, in freely-negotiated
proportions. In other words, commercial banks and beneficiaries, not the Government, had
to provide all the matching funds. This was a departure what had been done in the previous
three Agro-Industries Credit Projects. The terms of PB refinancing by STN had to be such
that the government could recover the full cost of obtaining and administering the Bank's
loan. For their part, the terms of on-lending by PBs to agro-industrial enterprises were
determined freely, being essentially the PBs' cost of funds plus a risk spread.
13.   Eligible Investments: Consistent with the structure of agro-industry, loan funds could
be used to finance all the stages of processing, marketing and storing agricultural raw
materials, namely:
a.   the primary and subsequent transformation of agricultural raw materials from
the time of harvesting until immediately before sale, including the storage,
cleaning, processing and packaging thereof, and
b.   in support of the above activities, the acquisition of necessary farm inputs,
equipment and machinery, including silos, tractors, tools and combines.
14.   Sub-loans up to US$5 million or the equivalent in local currency, could be committed
freely by any accredited PB -- and be refinanced by STN upon a PB's request - without any
discretionary pre-approval by a Government agency. However, BACEN had to check that
each sub-project complied with PNDA's guidelines on eligible expenditures and investments.
Setting a high free limit was consistent with the Bank's wish to eliminate all administrative
credit-allocation mechanisms. All sub-loans above the free limit of US$5 million had to be
approved by the Bank, and no single beneficiary could borrow more than US$15 million (15
percent of the Loan amount).
15.   Loan administration and supervision: BACEN and STN were jointly responsible.
a.    BACEN's role was to (i) administer the PNDA Special Account, by obtaining
timely replenishment of the account to enable STN to refinance eligible PB
sub-loans, (ii) accredit PBs for participation in PNDA -- to be accredited by
BACEN, PBs had to be financially sound and able to appraise sub-borrower



5
projects, (iii) check each PB's compliance with the projects guidelines on
eligible sub-projects, and deny funding for all sub-projects that were not in
compliance, (iv) cancel and recover all disbursed subloans that violate
eligibility criteria, and (v) if necessary, suspend or cancel the accreditation of
PBs. In accrediting individual PBs, BACEN had to set credit ceilings, based
on the recommendations of CLC.
b.    Overall coordination of the financial aspects of the project was done by STN,
through a special unit that was set up in 1988 to administer all official credits
to the Federative Republic of Brazil. STN's role was to (i) make
disbursements to accredited PBs on all sub-loans under the US$5 million free
limit, unless BACEN has stated that the projects violate PNDA regulations,
(ii) monitor balances outstanding with each PB, (iii) apply monetary correction
to option C loans, (iv) verify that counterpart funds are available and disbursed
on time, (v) ensure that loans that have declassified are recovered, and (vi)
provide monthly and quarterly financial summaries of the loan, with quarterly
data showing disbursements, desegregated by PBs, type of sub-borrower and
geographical region.
16.   Refinancing options: The Federal Government's liabilities to the Bank are
denominated in the Currency Pool. In an unusual departure from the Bank's normal
practice, the project initially offered three refinancing options:
a.    Qption A: This option involved on-lending to PBs in the Bank's Currency
Pool, so that PBs took on the full foreign-exchange risk on the Pool. This was
the most straightforward solution from the Government's point of view, since
it involved no exposure or risk of exchange-rate loss: the principal outstanding
in PB refinancing was automatically readjusted by the same factor as the
Government's own debt to IBRD. This option was also the most costly for
PBs.
b.    Option B: Here the Government took on the Currency-Pool/US dollar
exchange-rate risk and on-lends to PBs in dollars. The PBs, in turn, took the
dollar-local currency exchange-rate risk, when on-lending to beneficiaries in
Cruzados. The Government, in this case, charged the PBs the Bank's variable
rate plus a premium to cover its dollar-Pool risk.
c.    Option C: Although the Bank had expressed misgivings about doing so, this
option was introduced at the borrowers's request. The advantage was that it
sheltered PBs from exchange-rate exposure: their assets (the sub-loans) and
liabilities (to STN) were both in domestic currency. In order to work properly
in a hyper-inflation environment, the precondition was that refinancing rates
and principal amounts under this option be adjusted for inflation, so as to
ensure maintenance-of-value in US-dollar equivalents. Otherwise the



6
Government would suffer a cash-flow loss. At the time of appraisal, Brazil's
inflation-correction index for financial contracts was the value of the BTN
(National Treasury Bonds) as corrected from time to time. However, because
BTN lagged behind inflation, it resulted in the very cash-flow problems that
had been feared, and Option C had to be discontinued in October 1990.
17.   The pricing of loans to PBs: The Government's cost of funds (i.e., the Bank's
variable lending rate) was passed on to PBs. At negotiation it was agreed that the PBs'
refinancing rate would include a spread of 1.0 percent p.a., to cover the Government's cost
of administering the loan, and an additional 0.25 percent p.a., as commitment fee on
undisbursed balances. Under Option A the PBs' base cost was the Bank's variable interest
rate on the currency Pool plus those spreads. Refinancing under option B included a
premium to cover STN's foreign-exchange risk, and option C was adjusted with monetary
correction. In July 1992, the Bank and STN agreed that the exchange-rate premium on
option B would be maintained at 1.5 percent for the duration of PNDA.
Relations to Other Bank Loans
18.   The Loan marked the continuation of the Bank's long involvement in providing
finance for Brazil's agro-industrial sector, which started in 1973, when the First Agro-
Industry Credit Project became effective. Including this Loan, as of December 31, 1993, the
Bank had made 61 loans -- including supplemental loans -- totalling US$51,341.2 million (net
of cancellations), for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These loans include: (a)
one agricultural credit and export Loan for US$301 million; (b) one agricultural credit Loan
(loan 2971-BR) for US$300 million; (c) one credit and marketing-reform Loan for US$495
million; (d) four loans--including the Loan under review--for agro-industries, for US$758.8
million; (e) three loans (US$111.5 million) for livestock, including a Loan for a livestock
disease control project of US$51 million; (f) one Loan (US$18.2 million) for grain storage;
(g) three loans (US$147 million) for agricultural research; (h) two loans (US$255 million)
for agricultural extension; (i) one Loan (US$456.6 million) for land-tenure improvement; ()
22 loans (US$1,176 million) for rural-development projects; (k) nine loans (US$771.5
million) and two supplemental loans (US$107.5 million) for irrigation development; (1) eight
loans (US$319.3 million) for natural-resource management, and two loans (US$96 million)
for land management and soil-conservation projects in the States of Santa Catarina and
Parana; and (m) two loans (US$372 million) for zoning and native-forest protection.
Project Implementation
19.   Despite an encouraging start, and general success in exceeding the target reduction of
official credit for agro-industry (see below), PNDA experienced several problems during
implementation. These problems resulted from (i) the project's two-stage implementation
and problems in indexing and pricing sub-loans; (ii) the consequences for STN, PBs and
beneficiaries of delays in replenishing the Special Account; (iii) the pace of commitments to
refinance and associated foreign-exchange losses for STN; (iv) the first-come, first-served



7
allocation of funds to PBs, (v) the refinancing of sub-loans to beneficiaries that may have had
access to alternative sources of term finance; (vi) certain problems with loan supervision; and
(vii) the large number declassifications of disbursed subloans, and suspensions of PB
accreditation. Taken together, these factors, especially the large number of ex post loan
cancellations, explain the shortfall in project disbursement and lower final project cost.
20.   Phased implementation: The particularities of the three currency options explain why
the loan was implemented in two phases. All refinancing of sub-loans with contracts signed
between October 1989 and September 1990 was under option C. After Option C was
discontinued, all refinancing was done under the other two options. After 1990, the demand
for refinancing during phase two slowed down, which explains why only 80 percent of the
loan was disbursed. As was also the case for PNDR, during phase two, the demand was
almost exclusively for dollar refinancing, because the complexity of the Bank's Currency
Pool and difficulty of hedging the currency exposure on the pool made option A unattractive.
21.   The value adjustment of Option C proved quite complicated. When the loan first
became effective, Brazil's inflation-correction index for financial contracts was the BTN,
i.e., the adjusted value of National Treasury Bonds. But, because that index trailed inflation,
there was real-value erosion, thus a shortfall relative to STN's liabilities to the Bank
(denominated in the Currency Pool). In July 1991, the TRD became the general index for
al financial contracts, including outstanding subloans under the discontinued Option C. TRD
tracks inflation (as measured by the retail-price index), and there have been no further capital
losses on Option-C contracts. Since July 1991, STN has kept the real rate of interest on C
contracts at 12 percent, except during the second half of 1992, when it dropped to 10.50
percent (see Table 1 below). This is in contrast with negative real rates on Option C when
the BTN was the monetary correction index. Based on experience to-date, the current
formula should be able to cover STN's cruzeiro/dollar cross-currency risk for the remaining
life of Option C contracts.
22.   After Option C was discontinued, much of the second-phase demand for dollar
refinancing was for supplementary financing, to restore the real value of existing C subloans,
and enable beneficiaries to complete investment projects. Unfortunately, at that time,
weakness of the Cruzeiro and delays in approving and disbursing dollar-based refinancing
caused a severe financing gap for many borrowers. In some case, this forced beneficiaries to
scale down, or even abandon their projects.
23.   Delays in disbursements to PBs: There were two sources of delays:
a.    STN withheld the disbursements by up to two weeks in November 1989 and
suspended them in December of that year, because of legal questions
(including the Bank's request for certain legal opinions on refinancing
contracts between STN and PBs). There were also more delays in early 1990,
due to uncertainty about how the government's budgets for PNDA (and
PNDR) would be adjusted.



8
b.   In mid-1989, the Government decided to use the PNDA funds to finance the
production of ethanol from sugar cane. Since this was de facto use of PNDA
for directed credit, it ran counter to the Bank's policy of liberalizing
agricultural credit. As a result, there were delays up to six months in
replenishing the Special Account.
24.   Under the prevailing conditions of high and volatile inflation, those delays were costly
for PBs and beneficiaries alike, at a time when BTN was the index for Option C. Because
BTN was set once a month, at the beginning of each month, any delay would cause shortfalls
in refinancing, in an environment where the Cruzado was depreciating by up to 2 percent per
day. In extreme cases, the shortfall was such that sub-burrowers had to finance well over 50
percent of the project, as well as having to obtain costly bridge finance in order to go ahead
with the execution of sub-projects (whose price was also indexed to inflation).
25.   The reciprocal of the PBs' and sub-borrowers' losses was that STN made windfall
savings, equal to the difference between BTN and actual inflation. The magnitude of the
indexation problem can be judged from the fact that, between October 1989 and mid-may
1990, these 'savings' amounted to US$26.6 million equivalent for PNDA. These savings
have been used to undertake additional refinancings.
26.   Foreign-exchange losses: In the early stages of the loan's implementation the pace at
which refinancing were committed and disbursed led to losses for STN, because balances in
the Special Account were insufficient to cover disbursements. As a result, STN had to
refinance some sub-loans to PBs out of its own resources, without the Bank's 60-day
protection against foreign-exchange losses on expenditures financed thorough the Special
account. For PNDA, the loss incurred by STN amounts to US$4.1 million. To this one
should add an unrealized exchange-adjustment loss of US$17.8 million -- being the difference
between the dollar-equivalent amount it disbursed to PBs (US$259 million) and the amount
recover from IBRD (US$241.6 million). That 'loss' represents the combined revaluation
adjustment, at 1/15/1994, of the Bank's total disbursements to STN in the Currency Pool.
27.   The allocation of funds. The project followed the customary route of allocating funds
on a first-come-first-served basis. During the first phase of implementation, this favored
major banks that had a pipeline of sub-projects. Moreover, because there was a free limit of
US$5 million for disbursement by STN, some PBs have selected large sub-projects. In one
case, this resulted in refinancing larger agro-industrial projects multinational corporation that
was related to the PB concerned. In fact, that company might have had access to alternative
sources of funds.
28.   Approval of sub-loans for major beneficiaries. Banco Frances e Brasileiro and
Credibanco, which are closely linked and cooperate in lending, have a joint total of 50
different sub-projects. Of these, 18 involve subsidiaries of the Bunge y Borne group. This
is a multinational agro-industrial group that could have raised funding from other sources, all
the more so because Banco Frances is affiliated to the that group.



9
29.   Loan Superyision. Conjunctural factors have affected the quality of loan supervision.
In particular, STN experienced considerable difficulties in reconciling its data on
disbursements to the PBs, with the PBs' data on loan disbursements to beneficiaries.
Another difficulty is that the PBs' own reports to STN are not standardized. This can cause
reporting errors and discrepancies, especially in an environment of high inflation and rapidly
depreciating domestic currency, where differences of even a few days in reporting dates can
seriously affect the reported results.
30.   STN's monthly and quarterly summary financial reports on of the Loan have always
been on time, but have seldom included data on project implementation progress in terms of
the location of and nature of sub-projects being refinanced. In fact, that information was
only requested by the Bank in late 1992 and the Bank's request failed to specify exactly what
was needed.
31.   Approval of Ineligible Sub-loans. Because BACEN often had to review compliance
with project eligibility criteria of hundreds of PNDA and PNDR sub-project proposals at the
same time, and had to do so in a hurry to avoid delays in refinancing, its staff was
overburdened. Though most ineligible sub-projects were rejected at source, many inevitably
slipped by and had to be disqualified and cancelled after disbursement. In the case of
PNDA, the number of ex post cancellations almost reached a critical point. To wit, eight of
the fourteen PBs had some of their loans disqualified and cancelled after they had been
disbursed by STN. Because the principal amount of cancelled loans must be repaid to the
Special Account, loan cancellations have contributed to the shortfall of 20 percent in
disbursements. It is fair to assume that, if there been more cancellations, the project's
overall financial performance would have suffered seriously.
32.   Ineligible sub-loans fall into two main categories, the benign and the deliberate. The
first generally involves technical mistakes in failing comply with the project's regulations and
eligibility criteria for sub-loans. Typical cases are the refinancing of ineligible expenses
(such as the purchase of motor cars or micro-computers), including expenses incurred outside
the statutory limit of 180-days (which count as refinancing existing investments). There have
also been irregularities in the use of funds, such as forged or forward-dated invoices, and
failure to use funds for the stated projects.
33.   Technical cancellation of ineligible sub-loans. In all cases involving ineligible
expenses, the sub-loans are cancelled, meaning that disbursement is withheld, or, if
refinancing had already taken place, reimbursement demanded. Withholding disbursement on
technical grounds caused problems for PBs that had pre-financed sub-loans to beneficiaries.
Several PBs, BACEN and STN have stated that the number of technical cancellations was
highly correlated with the fact that the Bank's eligibility guidelines and criteria were too
fluid. A number Bank aide memoires have made the same comment. This caused confusion
for the PBs and their clients as to what could, or could not be refinanced, and dismay when
sub-projects were rejected or, worse still, cancelled. This explains why many cases of
alleged non-compliance have been contested by the PBs, by filing appeal of BACEN's



10
decision with the Monetary Council. In some cases, repayment to STN is still pending.
34.  In the case of four PBs, BACEN cancelled subloans on technical grounds, and there
had been no irregularities in the use of PNDA funds.
a.    Banco Bradesco de Investimentos: Out of four subloans, two were
disqualified, respectively for payment into a sub-borrower's bank account
(rather than for investment financing), and for having covered expenses
relating to a sub-project that predated PNDA. At mid-1993 US$5.67 million
in funds relating to these disqualified loans had not yet been repaid to STN.
b.    Banco da Amazonia: One of this bank's two subloans was disqualified.
c.    Banco Credibanco: This bank is the largest PB under PNDA. Its use of funds
represents 38 percent of total PNDA resources, with 45 subprojects currently
outstanding (of which 14 are supplementary loans for earlier subprojects)'.
Though Banco Credibanco's performance has generally been good, it suffered
a setback in a sub-project, involving the construction of Antarctica breweries
and the production of soft drinks in three states in the Legal Amazon. Though
the project had been approved by SUDAM, on the grounds that it would
generate employment, the project was cancelled voluntarily by Antarctica in
the face of objections by environmental groups. The equipment that had been
purchased with PNDA funds has been relocated in other Antarctica facilities,
and the loan repaid to STN. In addition, Credibanco received voluntary
prepayments on some other sub-loans, resulting in an overall reduction of
US$30 million in its PNDA portfolio (and US$15 million prepayment to STN).
d.    Banco do Brasil (BdB): This is the country's largest bank, with a nation-wide
network of 6,500 branches. It is also the country's principal source of rural
credit. But, because BdB had less experience with lending to agro-industry, it
was only the second largest user of PNDA, but with more than 190 sub-
projects, it covered the largest number of PNDA end-users. Of these, ten
subprojects, representing a total investment of US$10.6 million were
disqualified by BACEN. Most of these were in the States of Goias and Minas
Gerais, and involve only technical violations (usually cases of refinancing of
sub-project expenses incurred more than 180 days before the date at which
financing was requested; this falls in the category of "recovery of capital' and
causes automatic disqualification). BdB has fully settled repayments relating to
those loans.
i.e., to adjust the real value of earlier 'Option C' loans with dollar-based second-phase refinancing.



11
35.   Cancellations of contracts involving irregularities. In contrast with the foregoing, in
four other cases there were serious irregularities in the use of PNDA resources, to the point
that BACEN had to suspend the accreditation of the PBs involved. This makes them
ineligible for further participation in the project, until the suspension is lifted. These banks
are:
a.    Banco Economico (BE): This bank, in Salvador de Bahia, was able to obtain
US$45 million in PNDA refinancing, making it the third largest user of
PNDA, at a time BE had serious financial difficulties. Not surprisingly, BE
also has the largest number of disqualified loans, namely 13 out of its original
18 subloans. One such loan was to finance the purchase of land, which is not
authorized under the terms of PNDA. In addition, BE had severe
irregularities in its portfolio, including using PNDA funds for financial
speculation; refinancing overdue loans, unrelated to PNDA; lending to
undercapitalized beneficiaries; and failure to keep proper accounts relating to
some subloans. BE has appealed BACEN's suspension of its accreditation, as
well as disqualifications of its sub-projects with the National Monetary
Council. Pending the Council's decision, full settlement of that problem is
still pending.
b.    The State Development Bank of Goias (BDGOIAS): Three of this PB's 5
PNDA refinancings were disqualified. STN's Audit Report of December 1993
notes that this PB's irregularities included (i) failure to use funds for the stated
purpose, (ii) use of false documents, and (iii) refusal to cooperate with
BACEN inspectors. BDGOIAS has repaid STN the full amount of its
disqualified loans.
C.    The State Development Bank of Bahia (DESENBANCO): This PB had one of
its two loans cancelled, for failure to use PNDA monies for the stated purpose
and to disburse to the beneficiary.
d.    Banco Credire: This is a special case. Although this bank has performed
well in the context of PNDA, its accreditation was suspended on account of
irregularities in the use of PNDR funds. This automatically disqualifies it
from further refinancing under PNDA as well.
36.   The case of BNCC: This bank has been in Chapter 11 equivalent status since
September 1991, and is still awaiting liquidation. Though its PNDA and PNDR loans are
performing well, BNCC obviously lost its accreditation on prudential grounds. As noted in
the Evaluation Summary above, Banco do Brasil has offered to take over BNCC's PNDA
(and PNDR) loan portfolio and attendant liabilities to STN.



12
The Bank's Performance
37.   Because of competing work priorities, Bank staff were only able to supervise the
project at nine-month intervals. As a result, Bank supervision was sometimes tardy in
detecting and dealing with implementation problems. Other factors that weakened the Bank's
supervision are (i) the lack of continuity in task management by permanent staff (due to staff
rotation and reassignments), (ii) excessive reliance on one consultant, who became the main
repository of 'institutional knowledge' of the project, and (iii) the fact that mission and
supervision reports, and aide memoires invariably 'lumped together' PNDR and PNDA. This
may have blurred the perspective in evaluating each project's specificity of design and goals
and implementation progress.
Project Results
38.   At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$600 million, of which US$300
million (50 percent) would be financed by the Loan. Matching counterpart funds had to be
provided by PBs and beneficiary agro-industrial enterprises, in freely-negotiated proportions.
There was no counterpart funding by the government. At closing (12/31/1992) total project
cost had been revised to US$483.2 million, of which US$241.6 million (50 percent) were
proceeds from the Loan, and the rest from counterpart funds.
39.   Despite the implementation problems that were highlighted in the preceding sections,
the project has had good overall results. Onlending by PBs has been at market rates, had a
positive impact in reducing the volume of official rural credit, was disbursed rapidly -- but
not in full -- and touched a broad base of agro-industrial producers nation wide through 300
individual subloans.
40.   The PBs' on-lendin2 rate: In onlending to beneficiaries, the PBs added a freely-
negotiated spread over that cost of refinancing from STN (see Table 1). Credibanco, the
largest user of PNDA, applied the following spreads: A -- 3.5 percent; B -- 3 percent; and
C-- 1.7 percent. The differences between the spreads reflect the PB's decreasing exchange-
rate risk, relative to its sub-loans in domestic currency.
41.   Impact on the volume of official credit for agro-industry: The loan has broadly
achieved its stated objectives of partly reforming and liberalizing Brazil's rural financial
markets by increasing the amount of long-term rural credit at market rates for agro-industrial
enterprises, and reducing the volume of official rural credit at controlled interest rates.
During the project's three-year 1988-90 first stage of implementation period, reductions in
official lending to agro-industrial enterprises consistently exceeded PNDA's targets. As
shown in table 2, the level in 1990 was only about one third of the target for that year.
Moreover, since 1990, official financial support for agro-industry has continued to decline,
and, on a net basis (i.e., after loan repayments), official transfers to this sector are now
negative (in an amount of US$42 million for the first ten months of 1993).



13
Table 1: STN's LENDING RATE TO PBs
Period        Option  Interest rate (in % p.a.)
5-1-89 to 12-31-89   A:             8.15
B:            9.65
C:           10.45
1st half 1990        A:             8.15
B:            9.65
1991________   BC:                 12.00
2nd half 1990        A:             8.25
B:            9.75
______ _____ _____ C:         10.55
1991                 A:             8.20
B:            9.70
C:           12.00
1st half 1992        A:             8.20
B:            9.70
_____________   C:            12.00
2nd half 1992        A:             8.20
B:            9.70
C:           10.50
1993                 A:             8.10
B:            9.60
_____________   C:            12.00
Source: STN
Table 2. Target amounts and actual official credit
credit for agro-industry
- 1987 - 1993 (in US dollar million)
Year      1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Loan      681   486   384   356   na    na    na
target  amont for 1987 thrug  19etab
Actual*                      142  1137  192    56  
*Actual amounts for 1987 through 1989 are not available.



14
42.   The Pace of Disbursement: At first, after a somewhat slow start, PNDA disbursed in
line with what had been expected at appraisal: 100 percent of the targeted level of
disbursement was met in 1990. Thereafter, it slowed down to 92 percent of target in FY91,
and 80.5 percent in FY92 and FY93.
43.   A Fair Number of Beneficiaries: Altogether PNDA has already financed over 300
sub--projects. That is encouraging, given that agro-industrial projects are usually quite large
(an PNDA average is about US$1.6 million). In fact, several PBs have multi-million dollar
PNDA projects (see table 3 below). Despite the numerous cancellations, the majority of sub-
projects are performing well and there have, so far, been no significant problems in the
beneficiaries' debt service to the PBs.
Table 3: Largest PNDA projects
BANK            LARGEST PNDA PROJE                   USE OF FUNDS
_______B~~~Y BANK _____
Banco do Brasil       US$5.7 million               Grain silo
Banco da Amazonia     US$8.8 million               Warehouse
Credireal             US$4.9 million               Vegetable oil refinery
Credibanco            US$10.7 million             Wood treatment
US$7.7 million              Vegetable preserves
Banco Economico       US$14.3 million              Vegetable oil refinery
_  US$13.9 million            Agro-industry (not specified)
Banco Frances e       US$4.2 million               Flour mill
Brasileiro
Banespa               US$4.3 million               Cotton treatment
Source: Participating banks.
44.   A broad spectrum of activities: A large proportion of the funds went to sub-projects
involving the refining of sugar-cane ethanol (for the production of Gasohol). In addition,
PNDA has financed engineering and agro-industry infrastructure, including warehouses, silos
and food-processing plants, and cattle ranches and meat-processing and packing plants.
There has also been some refinancing of loans for Eucalyptus plantations (for the production
of paper pulp, charcoal and wood products).
45.   Uneven demand for refinancing in the three options: As explained, Option C was
discontinued in October 1990. By then, it already accounted for the bulk of disbursements,
and the pace of disbursements exceeded forecasts. After 1990, there was limited demand for
Option A, in the Bank's currency pool (see Table 4 below).



15
Table 4. PNDA Refinancing by Currency Option
Percentage Share  |    Option A    |      Option B            Option C
Entire LoanJ 3.59%                    22.48%              73.94%
Largest Bank       9.4% _31.00%                           59.60%
Sources: STN, Credibanco
Lessons Learned
46.   Experience to date contains a number of important lessons, both for the remaining life
of PNDA and for a possible future fifth-generation project.
a.    Supervision: BACEN and STN should take steps to improve the supervision of
the loan, among other things, by making disbursement data compatible with
those supplied by the PBs. STN's quarterly reports should include
performance data, including the distribution of loans by activity and location.
b.    DisQualified PBs:It is worrying that four of the fourteen accredited banks that
participated in the loan have failed to comply with PNDA's eligibility criteria
to the point of having had their accreditation suspended.
C.    The liquidation of BNCC should be expedited, and disputes over cancelled
sub-projects settled as soon as possible.
d.    The PBs' periodic financial reports to STN should be standardized, to avoid
future data inconsistencies.
e.    The Bank should tighten its eligibility criteria, so as to avoid indecision by
PBs and loan cancellations.
f.    Future lending, including of the first reflow of PNDR funds, should be in US
dollars, as long as high inflation persists. This means that PBs should assume
the local-currency/dollar risk and the Government the dollar/currency-pool
exchange-rate risk.
g.    There should be deliberate efforts to obtain broader, and more significant
participation by other PBs, so as to introduce more competition in the
allocation of credit to agro-industry, and have a greater impact on the
liberalization of the financial system. Here it should be stressed that, even



16
though 50 commercial banks had been accredited by BACEN for this project,
only 14 participated, and of those, four are no longer accredited or eligible to
lend PNDR funds.
h.    There should be a better allocation mechanism that is more transparent and
equitable, and involves more PBs.
47.   Allocation procedures for profit funds should be changed for the second round: The
Loan Agreement stipulates that grace periods on PB sub-loans may not exceed two years.
This means that there is already a substantial return cash flow on most subloans. There are
three basic ways to re-use that cash flow:
a.    Use the original first-come-first-served method to select PBs. The hazard here
is that the same problems that were experienced the first time round will
resurface.
b.    Give each PB the right of first refusal on re-using the cash flow pertaining to
its subloans. The problem here is that this would reward the past largest
users, such as Banco do Brasil, and leave open the question of what to do with
funds reflowing on loans made by PBs that are no longer accredited.
C.    Adopt an auction procedure. This would be the fairest and most transparent
allocation mechanism.
48.   Of the above possible alternatives, auctions are far more equitable and transparent
than allocating loan funds on a first-come, first-served basis. The latter method caused
intense competition for funds between banks, and among the branch offices of individual
banks. It has also helped major banks, such as Banco do Brasil and Credibanco, that had
built a large pipeline of potential sub-projects, and may have penalized PBs that did rigorous
loan preparations and credit analyses. The proposed auction mechanism has been described
in detail in previous mission documents. Adopting it will (i) require formal approval by the
Bank, and (ii) a decision by the Monetary Council.
49.   The alternative is to give the original PBs first choice in re-using the cash flow
pertaining to their subloans. The problem here is that it would concentrate future lending, as
many PBs are no longer accredited.
Sustainability
50.   The range of problems that occurred during implementation raises questions about the
sustainability of this project and its replicability. Not least is the fact that four PBs have
consistently failed to comply with the project's criteria on eligible expenses, to the point of
loosing their accreditation and ability to continue to on-lend PNDR funds. To ensure a better
performance in the second-round of sub-project financing (from the reflow of funds to STN),



17
it is essential that the action plan under the heading of "Lessons Learned" be adopted. As
for a fifth-generation follow-up operation, it is unlikely to be effective as long as high and
volatile inflation and general macroeconomic instability continue to distort Brazil's financial
markets. Experience in Brazil and other countries has shown that financial-sector operations
can only succeed in liberalizing financial intermediation and deepening financial markets
under conditions of relative macro-economic stability.



18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSIRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2960-BR)
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Implementation
51.   The Project's implementation and results can be considered satisfactory, given the
considerable difficulties caused by high inflation, unpredictable foreign-exchange markets,
and general macro-economic instability.
52.   One must, however, emphasize a number of points:
a.    Multiple currency options: With hindsight it was a mistake to have offered
commercial banks three currency options for the refinancing of sub-loans to
their clients. Though it was attractive to beneficiaries, refinancing in local
currency (Option C) proved unsustainable as it caused substantial erosion of
the principal amount of sub-loans in the prevailing inflationary environment.
As a result, that option had to be withdrawn in October 1990. As for on-
lending in the World Bank's Currency Pool (Option A), there has been
practically no demand for it (less than 4 percent of all refinancing, and by only
one bank), because of the extreme complexity and high currency risk of the
Bank's Currency Pool. This suggests that all future refinancing from reflows
of funds to STN should be done exclusively in US dollars (Option B).
b.    The first-come-first-served allocation of funds to participating banks: This
method has favored large banks that already had a pipeline of eligible sub-
projects at the time implementation of the Loan began. By the same token,
this method may have limited the level of participation by less active
accredited banks that had no experience with agro-industry. As has been
discussed with a number of past Bank Supervision Missions, the first-come-
first-served mechanism should be replaced with a more transparent and
equitable procedure, namely credit auctions.
c.    Eligibility Criteria: On balance, the project's criteria for what are eligible
expenditures were too vague. This created uncertainty for some of the
participating banks and their clients. That lack of clarity has also,
undoubtedly, contributed to the high level of rejection of sub-projects at the
time of application for refinancing, and to the subsequent disqualification of
many disbursed sub-loans. The rush of applications in the first months after



19
PNDA's effectiveness (plus the fact that the Central Bank had the check
eligibility on several hundred PNDR sub-projects at the same time) has further
complicated that task.
d.    Local Supervision: The effectiveness of local project supervision was affected
by economic factors, namely high inflation exchange-rate volatility and
economic instability. In addition, STN experienced considerable difficulties in
reconciling its own figures on disbursements to participating banks, with the
banks' data on disbursements to clients. Those difficulties are due to the fact
that, with high inflation and extreme volatility in foreign-exchange markets,
differences of only a few days can result in substantial differences, both in
Cruzeiro and in US dollar equivalent disbursement data. In addition, the
participating banks' reporting standards were not uniform, which made
reconciliation in a single data base difficult. A further point relates to the
World Bank's request that STN's quarterly statements also include information
on disbursements by sub-sectors and region. That request was only made in
1992, and the Bank did not give enough details on the type and format of the
information it needs. Finally, the participating banks have, so far, failed to
provide the necessary information.
e.    Foreign-exchange losses: In the early stage of the loan's implementation STN
financed some sub-loans to PBs out of its own resources, because balances in
the Special Account were insufficient to cover the high level of PB
refinancing. Because STN made these disbursements without the Bank's 60-
day protection against foreign-exchange losses on expenditures financed
thorough the Special account, it suffered a loss of US$4.1 million.
Project Results
53.   The project has offered substantial refinancing to a fair number of agro-industrial
enterprises, with broad geographical coverage. By following closely upon PRONAGRI, this
project also provided valuable continuity in financing an important sector of Brazil's
economy. Despite the lack of socio-economic data for a detailed evaluation of PNDA's
results, increased long-term lending for investment and working-capital has unquestionably
contributed to modernization and productivity gains in agro-industry. This has improved this
sector's competitiveness in export markets: as a result of the project, exports of agro-
industrial products have grown more rapidly than expected. In addition, the project has
contributed to reducing imports of ethanol, by financing the production of ethanol for motor
fuel. This, in turn, has had a noticeable impact on the current account.
54.   Together with its companion loan, PNDR, PNDA has also helped streamline the
country's financial markets. In fact, the reduction in the volume of official credit for agro-
industrial enterprises has far exceeded the targets that had been agreed by the Bank and the
Government. This has helped reduce the fiscal burden of providing interest-rate subsidies.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FOURTH AGRO-INDUSTRIES CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2960-BR)
m. SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
1. Related Bank Loans
LOAN T1TLE               PURPOSE                    YEAR OF        COMMENTS
APPROVAL
& STATUS
Agro-Industries Credit I    Support investment       1973          Refinancing through Central Bank
928-BR                   program to further the     Completed      restricted to 5 state development
US$54 million            growth of exports of                      banks, a limited range of activities
processed agricultural                   and the central and southern regions
products
Agro-Industries Credit II   As above                 1977          As above, but with more state
1317-BR                                             Completed      development banks participating
US$83 million
Agro-Industries Credit m    As above. In addition,   1983          As above, for nation-wide
2268-BR                  reform for liberalization of   Closed     investment in the development of
US$400 million           credit.                     12/31/89      effort-oriented agro-industrial
enterprises. Support for institutional
development of commercial banks
and reduction of official credit for
agro-industries.
Agricultural             Promote productive          1988          Final on-lending terms to be freely
Development Credit       investments in agriculture    Effective   negotiated by sub-borrowers and
2971-BR                  and the liberalization of  August 1989   participating private and official
US$300 million           credit                                    banks. Most of the loan was
committed in less than one week
after effectiveness.



21
2. Project Timetable
Item                                Dates
Planned                Actual
Identification
Preparation                  ---                     12/85
Appraisal Mission            12/87                   12/86
Loan Negotiations            05/88                   12/87
Board Approval               06/88                   05/88
Loan Signature               05/89                   06/88
Loan Effectiveness           08/89                   05/89
Loan Closing                 12/92                   08/89
Loan Completion              06/93                   12/92
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$M)
|  FY89  |  FY90        FY91       FY92       FY931
Appraisal Estimate       60.0      135.0      215.0      300.0      300.0
Actual                   --        138.6      209.3      248.4      241.6
Actual as % of estimate   0        100.03      92.3       82.8       80.5
' US$6.8 million was repaid to the Special Account in FY93 due to cancelled projects, and
the US$58.4 million that remained in the Special Account at closing has been cancelled.



22
4. Project Cost and Fnancing
A. Project Cost (US$ mil lon)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE               REVISED ESTIMATE'
F Foreign   Total                F Foreign   Total
Fixed and Associated
Working Capital Credit  510       90        600        n/a       n/a        483.2
'Actual data on project costs for all subprojects not available
n/a = not available
B. Project Financing
SOURCE                            | PLANNED LOAN                  | REVISED ESTIMATE
________________________ |AGREEMENT                                l
Bank                                300                            241.6
Participating Banks and Sub-borrowers |_3001                       241.6
' Proportions (to be) negotiated freely between PBs and Sub-borrowers.



23
5. Use of Bank Resources'
1.  T::STAF-:-     NP T   :.:_:_::_.''_'_.---.-_                                            _:._:.:-.:__-:-.
PROJECT CYCLE                                               STAFF WEEKS
Through appraisal                                                                   15.9
Appraisal through Board Approval                                                    2.4
Board Approval through Effectiveness                                                6.3
Supervision                                                                        29.3
TOTAL                                                                              53.9
_________r    MONTH    #PERSONS   FIELD                         SPECLALTY  _    PERFORMANCE              TYPE
!                | ~~~~~~YEAR  ||DAYS ||                                         RATINCOs        PROBLEW
TIdROUGH APPRAISAL                      1A
Identification            128 1V                    5    |          NA          |                         -
Preparation               12186         6           35         FNAlAgECON,                -               -
ECON, LOP, FDC,
LEG
Pro-Appraisal             06/87         7           20        PAN/AgECON,                 -               -
ECON, LOF, FDC,
LEG, AS
Appraial                  12/87         7           20        FAN/AgECON,                 -               -
ECON, LOF, FDC,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ ___   ______LEG ,_A S_                            _  _  _ _
APPRAISAL THROUGH APPROVAL
Negotiations          I05188  1         4           0       FNA, PDC, DO, LEG--
APPROVAL THROUGH EFFECTIVENESS
SPN                       05/89         2           12         FNA, AgECON                -               -
SUPERVISION
SPN                       12/90         2           23        FNA, AgECON                 2               Cm
12V90         1            2             FNA                                   f,m
12/92         1           12             FNA                   2               f,m
Staff input through appraisl re somewhat shared between Loans 2960-BR and 2971-BR since the two were developed in tandem.
2 FNA - Fnancial Analyst; ECON - Economist; AgECON - Agric. Economist; PDC - Division Chief; LOP - Loan Officer,
Po - Disbursement Officer; AS - Agro Industry Specialist; LEG - Lawyer
I 1-problem free or minor problem; 2 - moderate problems
f -Furial; m - management



24
6. Project Results
[A. PATCIAT1AK SHARES11RIPEPCENTAGE aout in_________ _________
[ BANK                                                             |        AMOUNT             |       SHARE IN %
Banco do Brasil S.A.                                                          47,488.0                     18.33
Banco da Amazonia S.A.                                                         5,920.0                      2.29
Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo S.A.                                    14,303.0                      5.52
Banco de Credito Real de M. Gemais S.A.                                       10,643.1                      4.19
Banco do Estado de Goias S.A.                                                    259.0                      0.10
Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A.                                              4,252.9                      1.64
Banco de Desenvolv. Eatado da Bahia                                            7,510.9                       1.01
Banco de Dewnvolv. Estado de Goias                                             6,066.1                      2.46
Banco de Invedimentos Credibanco S.A.                                         97,843.1                     37.77
Banco de Investimentos Bradesco                                               56,466.0                      2.18
Banco Economnica S.A.                                                         43,159.7                     16.66
Banco Frances o Brasileiro S.A.                                                6,875.1                      2.66
Uoyds Bank PLC                                                                   818.1                      0.32
Citybank N.A.                                                                 12,637.1                      4.88
TOW                                                                          259,029.0                    100.00
B. OFFICIAL SOURCES Of AGRICVLTURAL CREDIT - 1990-1993 (in USS niuilon) :___-                      :_-            -
YEAR             SOURCE                      OPERATING            INVESTMENTS          MARKETING           TOTAL
EXPENSES (INPUTS)
1990            BACEN                             _                      _                   -              10,441
TOTAL                          7,671                  1,332               3,116            12,186
1991             BACEN                                                                       -              6,036
TOTAL                          5,584                   823                1,686            8,114
1992            BACEN                             _                      _                   -              6,826
TOTAL                          4,950                   858                2,477            8,293
1993            BACEN                                                    _                   -              5,798
TOTAL                          4,438                  1,023               1,788            7,249



25
|C,   IN DISBURSEMENTPROLE to PB. zia US XollX) -
DATE                     CrSIUS$ EXCHANGE RATE             AMOUNT        |       OF DISBURSEMENT
1989
05/10/89                           4.027                  23,946,581                   9.24
13/10/89                           4.338                  12,965,786                  5.01
21/11/89                           6.471                  24,558,732                  9.48
Subtotal                                                  61,468,139                  23.73
1990
05/01/90                           12.270                 27,288,416                  10.53
08/01/90                           12.503                 11,954,657                   4.62
05/02/90                           19.097                 10,086,343                   3.89
08/02/90                          20.848                  21,295,273                   8.22
09/02/90                          21.467                   1,621,591                   0.63
05/03/90                          33.007                  10,156,068                   3.92
05/04/90                          42.725                   7,557,001                   2.92
07/05/90                          51.173                   2,014,955                   0.78
15/05/90                          51.239                    157,915                   0.06
05/06/90                          55.247                   1,892,052                  0.73
05/07/90                          66.040                   2,153,813                   0.83
06/08/90                          71.303                   3,983,159                   1.54
05/09/90                          67.964                   3,525,722                   1.36
25/09/90                          82.374                  10,071,951                   3.89
05110190                          87.360                   7,118,075                  2.75
05/11/90                          113.760                  1,125,152                  0.43
05/1290                          147.540                  2,855,893                   1.20
Subtotal                                                 124,858,036                 48.20
1991
07/01/91                          177.280                    88,905                   0.03
08/01/91                          181.060                  1,103,677                  0.43
05/02/91                         220.770                    151,705                    0.06
05/03/91                         225.660                    920,162                   0.06
14/03/91                         229.270                     60,113                   0.02
05/04/91                         246.060                  13,341,743                  5.15
15/04/91                         251.370                  22,858,270                  8.82
06/05/91                         263.100                   3,287,773                   1.27
05/06/91                         288.410                   7,108,973                  2.74
05/07/91                         318.640                   2,335,334                  0.90
05/08/91                         353.180                    413,478                   0.16
05/09/91                         405.390                   1,417,882                  0.55
24/09/91                         449.350                    259,093                   0.10
26/09/91                         454.210                      8,689                   0.00
27/10/91                         547.390                   1,064,553                  0.41
05/11/91                         668.680                    937,352                   0.36
08/11/91                         695.700                    182,169                   0.07
05/1291                          882.500                  1,255,363                  0.48
Subtotal                                                  56,795,234                 21.93
1992
06/01/92                         1100.900                   141,767                    0.05
15/01/92                         1179.050                  2,069,462                  0.80
05/0292                         1360.800                  2,301,985                   0.89
05/03/92                         1664.350                  3,226,285                   1.25
06/04/92                         2068.050                   414,400                    0.16
05/05/92                        2438.200                    544,459                   0.21
05/06/92                         2978.550                     7,385                    0.00
30/12/92                        12243.000                  7,199,511                   2.75
Subtotal                                                  15,905,254                  6.14
TOTAL                                                    259,029,642                 100.00
Source: STN



26
. ! -! ! wP S !#! . ! . .. !. . ...... : .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . . . . . . . . . .
MONTH/YEAR              BTN X CHANGE             CUMULATIVE % CHANGE
11/89                          40.21                             40.21
12/89                          53.46                            115.16
1/90                          56.27                             236.24
2/90                           71.93                            478.12
3/90                           44.86                            737.46
4/90                            0.43                            741.09
5/90                            4.23                            776.64
6/90                            9.78                            882.41
7/90                           11.39                            972.01
8/90                            9.78                           1,076.88
9/90                           12.49                           1,223.79
10/90                          14.35                           1,413.77
11/90                          16.23                           1,659.40
12/90                          18.57                           1,986.06
1/91                           19.78                          2,398.73
MONTHfYEAR              IRD % CHANGE             CUMULATIVE % CHANGE
2/91                            7.00                           2,635.69
3/91                            8.50                           2,868.23
4/91                            8.93                           3,133.29
5/91                            9.00                           3,424.29
6/91                            9.40                           3,755.57
7/91                           10.05                           4,143.06
8/91                           11.95                          4,650.10
9/91                           16.78                           5,447.17
10/91                          19.77                          5,543.84
11/91                         30.52                           8,571.54
12/91                          28.42                          11,036.00
1/92                          25.48                          13,873.45
2/92                           25.61                          17,452.05
3/92                           24.63                          21,775.12
4/92                           21.08                          26,386.40
5/92                           19.81                         31,633.35
6/92                           21.05                          38,313.22
7/92                           23.69                          47,413.31
8/92                           23.22                         58,445.90
9/92                           25.38                          73,304.86
10/92                          25.07                         91,707.45
11/92                         23.29                          113,089.41
12/92                         23.95                          140,198.27
1/93                          26.78                          177,742.09
2/93                           26.40                         224,692.40
3/93                           26.18                         283,543.05
4/93                           26.22                         363,587.12
5/93                           28.68                         467,882.59
6/93                           30.08                         608,664.76
7/93                           30.37                         793,546.61
8/93                           33.34                       1,058,148.39
9/93                           34.82                       1,424,513.88
10/93                         36.53                        1,944,925.48
11/93                         36.16                        2,848,245.69
12/93                         36.80                        2,648,246.69
Source: STN



7. Status of Main Legal Covenants
AGREEMENT          STATUS         ORIGINAL        REVISED                     DESCRIPTION OF
SECTION                           DATE           DATE                         COVENANT                                          COMMENTS
3.01 (b) and (c)   Parlially not in                             The Borrower shl enter into a Participating      For Participating Agreements during the first phae of
compliance                                     Agreement acceptable to the Bank and including the    project implementation (October 1989-September 1990),
terms and conditions et forth in Schedule 6 to the  the BTNF was used as the monetary correction index
Loan Agreement, with each participating bank,   insd of the IPC, contrary to Schedule 6 of the Loan
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the   Agreement. Since Febnru  1991, the BTNF has been
Borrower shall not amend, waive, abrogate or fail to   abolished and the IPC is no longer being published. A
enforce the provisions of any such Participating  market-determined reference rate (R has been created
Agmeement.                                      and is now being used to adjust the principal balances of
PBes with DTN. The TRD is a satisfactory subtitute for
the [PC; consequently the Loan Agreement will be
amended accordingly.
3.02             In compliance                                  Procurement of the goods and works required for  Problem of ineligible expenditures has been minimized
for most part                                 the project shall be in accordance with provisions of    with hberalization of vehicle imports. Nonetheless,
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement.               DTN has been asked to estimate by participating bank
the amount of ineligible expenditures, including
expenditu  on imports of goods which continue to be
prohibited. The total amount was expected by DTN at 
the time of the July 1991 Bank supervision mission to be
relatively insignificant.
3.03             OK                                             Participating banks (PBs) would be accredited by  45 banks sought accreditation with the Central Bank. As
BACEN according to agreed criteria concerning   of March 1990, accreditation was extended to 35 banks,
financial soundness and loan appraisal capability,  deferred for 6 banks and uspended for 4 banks. Since
PBs which are not accredited sall not make fiirther   then, accreditation of a fifth bank (BDGOIAS) has been
subloens while they remain unaccredited.        suspended.
3.04 (a)         Partially OK                                   DTN would carry out supervision of the project, in  DTN needs to improve its management contols and
a manner atisfactoy to the Bank, with management   monitorng of the project. DTN has agreed to take
and staff adequate in mumbers, qualifications and  appropriate step in this respect. Supervision by
experience and utilizing appropriate fiancial control   BACEN has also not been timely nor comprehensive.
sytems.                                         Addional coverwge is planned during the second half of
1991.
3.05             OK                                             Proposed subloas of US$5 milLion or more should
be submitted to the Bank for its review and
approval. Te first four fee-limnit sublona should
be submitted to the Bank for its review.
3.06             Partially OK                                   Government would prepare and submit to the Bank  Only annal reports have been submitted. Thes have
quarterly reports on the status of implementation of    proven sufficient u a basi for reviewing the progam.
the Government's program to contract official credit   The annual report on official agro-industrial credit in
to the agncultul  ctor, and the Government would   1990 has yet to be ubmitted to the Bank.
meet with the Bank on annua basis to review thus
program.



28
8. Agro-industrial Credit by Type of Borrower
[Borrower   Total Lending    For Operating         Investment         Marketing
l1__________ lCosts                                Credits                           l
Small       149897 (26.9%)   126230 (84.2%)       19929 (13.3%)      3737 (2.5%)
Medium      104105 (18.7%)   88255 (84.8%)        12956 (12.5%)      3000 (2.9%)
Large       187270 (33.6%)   149589 (79.9%)       25978 (13.9%)      11701 (6.3%)
Coops       90439 (16.2%)    51394 (56.9%)        1091 (1.2%)        37950 (42%)
| Total   |557089            417028 (74.9%)       61054 (11%)        79007 (14.1%)
Source:Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1991, p.493.



