Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
 LOAN NUMBER 2960 BR
(Fourth Agro-Industries Credit Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 31, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 2960 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 1989, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated March 28, 1988, as updated by 
letter dated May 12, 1988, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to contract the supply of  official (interest-rate 
controlled) credit to the agricultural  sector,  including agro-industries 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the  Borrower's commitment to the 
implementation of the Program and requesting the assistance of the Bank in financing 
the Project as part of such Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower with the assistance of 
Participating Banks (as hereinafter defined) and, as part of such assistance, the 
Page  2
Borrower will make available to such Participating Banks the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General  Conditions),  with the 
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"STN" means the National Treasury Secretariat, Secretaria do  Tesouro 
Nacional, of the Ministry of Finance, Ministerio da Fazenda, of the Borrower;
(c)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Central Bank of  the 
Borrower established by Lei No. 4,595 of December 31, 1964 of the Borrower;
(d)
"Participating Bank" means a bank which has been accredited by the 
Central Bank to participate in making Subloans under the Project;
(e)
"Subborrower" means a person, group of persons, or an entity, having 
juridical capacity under the laws of the Borrower to enter into contracts, to whom or 
which a Participating Bank has made a Subloan (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Subproject" means an investment by a Subborrower in agro-industry, 
including the manufacture of farm inputs, equipment and machinery, and the storage, 
cleaning, grading, processing and packaging of raw agricultural products prior to 
retailing of such products;
(g)
"Subloan" means a loan made in accordance with the terms and conditions 
set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, by a Participating Bank out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to a Sub-borrower for the financing of  a Subproject and which may include 
the financing of working capital associated with such Subproject;
(h)
"Participating Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into,  
pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, between the Borrower and  each 
Participating Bank for purposes of making Subloans to Subborrowers;
(i)
"Free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan that is for a total amount of less 
than the equivalent of five million dollars;
(j)
"FSRMM" means the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of  the 
Merchant Marine, Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao da Marinha  Mercante-AFRMM, 
established by Decree Law No. 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 
1987 or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
be substituted for it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988;
(k)
"IPC" means the official, monthly index of inflation as reflected by the 
Consumer Prices Index, Indice de Precos ao Consumidor, currently published by Fundacao 
Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica;
(l)
"Operation Limits" means Limites de Operacoes, as defined in the Manual 
of Norms and Instructions, Manual de Normas e Instrucoes, issued by the Central Bank 
Page  3
as amended from time to time, setting forth debt-equity  ratios, loan exposure limits 
and other financial limits for banks;
(m)
"Basket of Currencies" means the various currencies, or any 
representative subset of such currencies acceptable to the Borrower and the  Bank, 
which are recorded by the Bank in its Central Disbursement Account  reflecting loan 
disbursements to borrowers; and
(n)
"cruzado novo" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for 
expenditures made, or if the Bank shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works financed by
Subloans as listed in such Schedule.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
the Project, through STN and with the assistance of Participating Banks, all with due 
diligence and efficiency  and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, agricultural   and environmental standards and practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such part of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall enter into a Participating Agreement, 
acceptable to the Bank and including the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, with each Participating Bank accredited by Central Bank pursuant to 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, which participates, or will participate, in the making 
of Subloans.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
waive, abrogate or fail to enforce the provisions of any such Participating Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower, through contractual arrangements, shall cause 
Central Bank to review the financial status and administrative capacity of each 
Participating Bank which participates, or proposes to  participate, in carrying out 
the Project, and to determine whether such Participating Bank shall be accredited for 
such purposes in accordance with the following criteria:
(i)
that such Participating Bank has complied with the Operation 
Limits;
(ii)
that the arrears in repayments of such Participating Bank's 
outstanding loan 
portfolio are no more than 10% of the total 
outstanding repayments required 
for all loans included in such 
portfolio;
(iii)
that such Participating Bank has qualified and competent staff in 
adequate 
numbers to appraise Subprojects and manage Subloans; 
and
(iv)
for purposes of this paragraph, the term "arrears in repayments" 
is defined as 
repayments attributable to principal or interest due 
and outstanding for a 
period of six months or more, including 
capitalized interest, and principal or 
interest which has been 
refinanced by changing the terms and conditions of a 
loan or by the 
making of a new loan.
(b)
The Borrower, through contractual arrangements, shall cause Central Bank:
 
(i)
to perform the review and accreditation referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section with respect to each Participating Bank prior to the 
Borrower's 
entering into a Participating Agreement with such 
Participating Bank and on an 
annual basis thereafter through 
completion of the Project;
(ii)
to notify Treasury of such accreditation or lack thereof; and
 
(iii)
to notify the Bank promptly of any change in the Operation Limits.
 
(c)
If at any time the Central Bank notifies STN that accreditation of a 
Participating Bank has been withdrawn, then the Borrower shall:
(i)
notify the Bank of such withdrawal of accreditation; and
 
Page  5
(ii)
ensure that such Participating Bank which is not accredited shall 
not make 
further Subloans while it remains 
unaccredited.
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out supervision of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, with management and staff adequate in numbers, qualifications and  experience, 
and utilizing appropriate financial control systems;
(b)
without restriction upon or limitation to, the Borrower's other reporting 
requirements under this Agreement and the General Conditions,  submit to the Bank: (i) 
on a monthly basis, a summary of the reports of Participating Banks setting forth for 
each such Participating Bank, the number and principal amounts outstanding of new 
Subloans made by, and the total amount disbursed to and repayed by, such Participating 
Bank during the relevant month; and (ii) on a quarterly basis, a summary of the 
reports provided by the Participating Banks to the Borrower on the progress of  making 
Subloans by such Participating Banks, including information regarding  the number and 
principal amounts outstanding of Subloans, and disbursements to and repayments made by 
Subborrowers, classified by region, state, type of activity and investment; and
(c)
utilize internal procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for disbursing the 
proceeds of the Loan to Participating Banks and for  receiving repayments from 
Participating Banks, including, inter alia, the following:
(i)
disbursements from a Subloan by a Participating Bank to 
Subborrowers shall be 
made after the signing of contracts, or upon 
evidence of payment made or 
invoices due for goods or works; 
such disbursements may be made by the 
Participating Bank 
directly to the Subborrower or to the supplier of such 
goods 
or works;
(ii)
upon making disbursements for Subloans, the Participating Bank may 
request 
payment under its Participating Agreement from STN; 
STN shall, upon receiving 
such request, authorize Central Bank to credit 
the reserve account of the 
Participating Bank with the 
amounts so disbursed under the Participating 
Agreement; and
 
(iii)
when repayments of amounts received by a Participating Bank under 
its 
Participating Agreement are due, STN shall authorize Central 
Bank to debit the 
reserve account of such Participating Bank with a 
corresponding amount.
Section 3.05. (a) Prior to making a Subloan the total amount of which is the 
equivalent of five million dollars or more, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank for 
its review and approval, each such Subloan, together with  such information about such 
Subloan, Subborrower and Subproject as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for its review, the first  four 
Free-limit Subloans made, together with such information about each  such Free-limit 
Subloan, Subborrower and Subproject as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, on an annual basis and at the request of 
either party, exchange views with the Bank on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Project and the Program.
(b)
On a quarterly basis and prior to each such exchange of views, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a report, in such detail as the Bank may  
reasonably request, on such progress achieved.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices, the resources and  expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out of the 
Page  6
Project or any part thereof, and of the Participating Banks.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and the 
audit thereof and said records as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a)
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
that the Borrower shall have failed to carry out the Program; and
 
(c)
that a change shall have been made in the Operation Limits which, in the 
opinion of the Bank, could adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been registered by the Central 
Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the 
Page  7
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date August 29, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F., Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brasil
with copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Diretoria de Credito Rural,
Industrial e Programas Especiais
Edificio Sede do Banco Central do Brasil
10o andar
Setor Bancario Sul
70070 Brasilia, D.F., Brasil
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
BANCENTRAL
0612149
Brasilia, Brasil
Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
Anexo A - Sala 119,
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F. Brasil
Telex:
0611008
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
Page  8
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Cid Heraclito de Queiroz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Witnessed by:
Joao Batista de Abreu
Minister, Secretary General of Planning
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Subloans                  300,000,000     100% of the amounts
                                               disbursed by
                                               Participating Banks
                                               for Subloans
                               ___________
          TOTAL                300,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of a Subloan made by a Participating Bank and financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan:
(a)
unless the Bank has received a true and correct copy of the Participating 
Agreement with respect to such Participating Bank and a  satisfactory opinion or 
opinions of a counsel, acceptable to the Bank, that  such Participating Agreement is 
legally binding upon the Borrower and the relevant Participating Bank in accordance 
with its terms;
(b)
unless the Subloan has been approved by the Bank or is a Free-limit 
Subloan (other than those Free-limit Subloans referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement); and
Page  9
(c)
if such Subloan finances goods the importation of which has been 
prohibited by the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support productive agro-industrial  
investments and to liberalize credit in the agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Agro-Industrial Credit
Provision of Subloans to finance Subprojects and associated working capital.
*     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30 1992.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1994
through   September 15, 2003
15,000,000
 
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
Page  10
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage 
per annum) applicable to the balance out-
standing on the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as Provided in Part C hereof, goods and works procured under contracts 
expected to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more and financed from the proceeds 
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set 
forth in Sections I and II of the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits" published by  the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers; Reserved Procurement
 
1.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  
indicate any preference which would be granted, the information required to  establish 
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages 
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank 
that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at 
least 50% of the value 
of the completed goods.
 
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking 
into account customs duties and other import taxes levied in  connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids.  Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
Page  11
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of custom duties and  other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each  group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of custom duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest custom duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.  If, as a result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, 
shall be selected for the award.
2.
No goods, the importation of which has been prohibited by the Borrower, shall be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Goods and works procured under contracts estimated to cost less than  the 
equivalent of $5,000,000 and financed from the proceeds of the Loan  shall be 
purchased at a reasonable price, taking into account other  relevant factors such as 
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability   of the goods and availability of 
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of works, of their 
quality and the competence of the parties performing such works.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under Part A of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that  the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statement of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "custom duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  12
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$30,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized  Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the  Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the  basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and  deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All  such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the  request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when  either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category 
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that  the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on  deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment  out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
Page  13
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was  not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time, after consultation with 
the Borrower that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required 
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the  Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to 
the Loan Account and immediate cancellation.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of Participating Agreements
Section I:
General Terms
 
1.
The Borrower shall enter into a written agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with 
each Participating Bank providing arrangements for, inter alia:
(a)
relending a portion of the proceeds of the Loan to such Participating 
Bank for purposes of making Subloans under the Project, but only on condition that 
such Participating Bank agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement regarding its obligations in the  execution of the Project, including, 
without limitation, Section 4.01 of this Agreement (maintenance of records and 
accounts), and Schedule 4 to this Agreement (procurement), as the same may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)
repayment to the Borrower, of all amounts relent to the Participating 
Bank; such Participating Bank to bear the credit risk  associated with any failure by 
Subborrowers to repay Subloans;
(c)
the requirement that all Subloans financed under the Project shall be 
made in accordance with the terms and conditions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
(d)
the requirement that such Participating Bank furnish to the Bank, through 
the Borrower, the information required by Section 3.04 (b) of this  Agreement and such 
other information as the Borrower may require to comply with its obligations under 
this Agreement;
(e)
the requirement that the Participating Bank submit, through the Borrower, 
to the Bank for its prior approval, each Subloan for a principal amount equivalent to 
five million dollars or more, and that the Participating Bank shall have the sole 
right of approval for Subloans below such amount;
(f)
the requirement that the Participating Bank comply with the disbursement 
procedures referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement; and
(g)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating Bank to use the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such  Participating 
Bank to perform any of its obligations under the Participating Agreement.
2.
The Borrower shall cause each Participating Bank to exercise its rights in 
relation to each Subloan, Subborrower and Subproject in such manner as to: (i) protect 
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, and the Participating Bank; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section II:
Terms of Relending the Proceeds of the Loan
 
1.
Amounts relent by the Borrower to a Participating Bank shall be in  accordance 
with the terms of any one or more of the following Options:
Option 1:
a.
Currency Denomination. Basket of Currencies.
 
b.
Interest Rate. The annual interest rate charged from time to 
Page  14
time on 
all amounts withdrawn and outstanding under this 
Option shall be the 
same variable interest rate, adjusted 
every six months, as shall be 
applicable under the terms 
of Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
Option 2:
a.
Currency Denomination. Dollars.
 
b.
Interest Rate. The annual interest rate charged from time to 
time on 
all amounts withdrawn and outstanding under this 
Option shall be the 
same variable interest rate as shall be 
applicable under the terms of 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, 
adjusted every six months on the 
following basis or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, on such other basis 
acceptable to 
the Bank:
(i)
the interest rate applicable under Section 2.05 of 
this Agreement 
shall be the initial interest rate;
 
(ii)
such initial interest rate shall be adjusted by a 
factor 
determined by subtracting the 
Multicurrency Bond Yield from the 
US Dollar Bond 
Yield, as such terms are defined below, calculated 
as of 
any date not more than five business days before each 
interest payment date, provided, however, that for a period of 
one year after the Effective Date such factor shall be 1.5 
percentage points. For these purposes, the terms "Multicurrency 
Bond Yield" and "US Dollar Bond Yield" shall mean the 
respective 
weighted average yields to maturity of those 
outstanding Bank 
bonds denominated in: (A) US dollars, 
Deutsche mark, Swiss 
francs, Japanese Yen or 
Netherlands Guilders, and (B) US dollars 
only, which 
bonds are interest bearing, publicly-traded quoted on 
Reuters Quotation Service (or such other source acceptable to the 
Bank) and have a remaining life to maturity of not less than five 
years and not more than ten years. Such weighted average yields 
shall be determined in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
Option 3:
a.
Currency Denomination. Cruzados novos.
 
b.
Interest Rate. The annual interest rate charged from time to 
time on 
all amounts withdrawn and outstanding under this 
Option  shall be the 
same variable interest rate as shall be 
applicable under Option 2 
above, plus not less than a 
minimum of .8 percentage points and not 
more than a 
maximum of 2.5 percentage points, the applicable points to 
be 
determined within such range by subtracting IPC Inflation from 
Cruzado Novo Depreciation. For these purposes, the term "IPC Inflation" 
means the total percentage change in the IPC over the six month period 
prior to making such determination and the term "Cruzado Novo 
Depreciation" means any decline (measured in percentage 
points) in the 
value of the cruzado novo in relation to the 
Dollar over the same six 
month period.
 
c.
Adjustment of Outstanding Principal Amounts Owed. On the 
last day of 
each month after the date of relending funds from the 
Borrower to the 
Participating Bank under this Option, the 
outstanding balance of 
amounts owed shall be adjusted on 
the basis of the monthly percentage 
change in the IPC.
 
2.
The following general terms shall be applicable to all amounts relent by the 
Borrower to a Participating Bank pursuant to a Participating Agreement.
a.
Repayment.  All amounts shall be repaid in cruzados novos, 
any rate of 
exchange to be determined as of the date of each 
repayment. 
b.
Term. All amounts relent by the Borrower to a Participating 
Page  15
Bank 
pursuant to a Participating Agreement shall be repaid 
over the same 
term as the Subloan or Subloans made by 
the Participating Bank 
utilizing such amounts.
 
c.
Fee. Each Participating Bank shall pay to the Borrower a fee 
of 
one-half percentage point per annum on all amounts 
withdrawn and 
outstanding pursuant to its 
Participating Agreement.
SCHEDULE 7
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
Terms and Conditions
 
Each Subloan, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, shall include the following 
terms and conditions:
(i)
Appraisal. Each Subloan shall be made only for a Subproject 
appraised by the 
Participating Bank making such Subloan;
 
(ii)
Currency. Subloans shall be denominated in Basket of Currencies, 
dollars or 
cruzados novos and shall be repayable in cruzados novos, any 
rate of exchange 
to be determined shall be determined as of the date 
of each repayment;
(iii)
Term. Subloans may be made for a term of up to twelve years and  
may include a 
grace period not exceeding three years;
 
(iv)
Interest Rate. Subloans made by each Participating Bank shall bear 
annual 
interest rates determined by such Participating Bank 
in accordance with 
established commercial practices, provided, 
however, that each such 
Participating Bank shall recover 
at least the cost of borrowing funds under 
its Participating 
Agreement; and
(v)
Maximum Amount Limitations. (i) the maximum amount of each Subloan 
shall be 
fifty percent of the total cost of the Subproject; (ii) the 
maximum amount of 
working capital that may be financed by a Subloan 
shall be fifty percent of 
that portion of the total investment cost of 
the Subproject that is financed 
by such Subloan; and (iii) the maximum 
aggregate amount that any one 
Subborrower may borrow for a 
Subloan or Subloans shall be the equivalent of 
fifteen million 
dollars.
2.
Written Contract. Each Subloan financing a Subproject shall be made pursuant to 
a written contract between the Participating Bank and the Subborrower, providing:
(i)
for the obligation of such Subborrower to carry out and operate 
the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with the standards and 
practices referred to in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement;
(ii)
that the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall 
be procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
 
(iii)
that the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
 
(iv)
that the Participating Bank can inspect, by itself or jointly with 
representatives of the Borrower, Central Bank, and 
the Bank, if the Borrower, 
Central Bank or the Bank shall so 
request, such goods and the sites, works, 
plants and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant 
records and documents;
(v)
for the obligation of the Subborrower to furnish all such 
Page  16
information as the 
Borrower or the Bank or the Participating Bank shall 
reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial 
condition of the 
Subborrower and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Subproject; and
(vi)
the right of the Participating Bank to suspend or terminate the 
right of the 
Subborrower to the use of the proceeds of the Subloan upon 
failure by such 
Subborrower to perform any of their 
obligations under the contract with the 
Participating Bank.
 
