Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20459-HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 14.8 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR THE
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
September 27, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2000)
Currency Unit = HRK
HRKI = US$0.12
US$1= HRK8.04
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASCD                 Automated System for Customs Data
APL                  Adjustable Program Lending
BCP                  Border Crossing Point
CCE                  Croatian Chamber of Economy
CDRC                 Customs Directorate of the Republic of Croatia
EU                   European Union
ECMT                 The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport
FMS                  Financial Management System
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IRU                  International Road Transport Union
LACI                 Loan Administration Change Initiative
LAN                  Local Area Network
MEPZ                 Ministry of Environmental Protection and Zoning
MOE                  Ministry of Economy
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOU                  Memorandum of Understanding
PIT                  Project Implementation Team
RSC                  Regional Steering Committee
SAD                  Single Administrative Document
SECI                 Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
SME                  Small and Medium Enterprises
TIR                  Transport International Routier
TOR                  Terms of Reference
TTFSE                Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
UNCTAD               United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
UN-ECE               United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
WAN                  Wide Area Network
WCO                  World Customs Organization
WTO                  World Trade Organization
Vice President:                    Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:                  Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director:                   Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:                    Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:               Graham Smith, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:                  Gerald Ollivier, ECSIN
ii



Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .........................................................................                                             3
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .........................................................................                                         3
2. KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .........................................................................                                            3
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT .........................................................................                                                         4
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ............4
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .........................................................................                             4
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ......................................... 7
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY .........................................................................                                               7
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .........................................................................                                                    7
2. KEY  POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ..................                                         .............................. 8
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION .........................................................................                                        9
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................................... 10
D. PROJECT RATIONALE .........................................................................                                                        13
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION .................................................... 13
2. MMOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES ............ 14
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ................................................................. 14
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP ................................................................. 15
5. VALUE ADDED OF BANK  SUPPORT IN THIS PROJECT .........................................................................     15
E. SUMMARY  PROJECT  ANALYSIS ......................................................................... 1 5
1. ECONOMIC .........................................................................                                                             15
2. FINANCIAL AND FISCAL .........................................................................                                                 15
3. TECHNICAL .........................................................................                                                            16
4. INSTITUTIONAL ......................................................................... 16
5. SOCIAL .......              .................................................................. 1 7
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .........................................................................                                             17
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .........................................................................                                               17
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS .........................................................................                                                 19
1. SUSTAINABILITY .........................................................................                                                       19
2. CRITICAL RISKS ......................................................................... 19
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS .........................................................................                                       20
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .........................................................................                                                    20
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS ......................2.....................0................0............... 20
2. OTHER.20..                       . .... . ......                                         ... .....                             . . .0
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ..................................                                                                                    20
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ..................................                                                                                   21
iii



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1      PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
ANNEX 2      DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 3      ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 4      COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
ANNEX 5      FINANCIAL SUMMARY
ANNEX 6      PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A      PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A I    CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS
TABLE A2      PROCUREMENT PLAN
TABLE B      THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
TABLE B 1    CAPACITY OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
TABLE C      ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
ANNEX 7      PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
ANNEX 8      DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
ANNEX 9      STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
ANNEX 10     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
ANNEX 11     CDRC REFORM STRATEGY
ANNEX 12     COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAPs No. IBRD 31002 AND 31069
iv



Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
South Central Europe Country Unit
Date: September 27, 2000                            Program Team Leader: Graham Smith
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink                 Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: 7E-PE-70088                             Sector: TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan    [I   Credit   [I   Guarantee  [    Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: EUR 14.8 million (US$13.9 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency    [X] LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan in
EURO plus Variable-Rate Single Currency
Loan
Grace period (years):    5             []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed
Years to maturity:       15
Commitment fee:          0.75 % per annum on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any
waiver
Front-end fee on Bank Loan  I %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                    LoWal             Foreign            Total
Government                                                   6.2                0.1              6.2
United States (US)                                           0.0                1.9              1.9
IBRD                                                         1.8               12.1             13.9
Total                                                        8.0               14.1             22.0
Borrower: Republic of Croatia
Responsible agencies: Ministry of Finance and Croatian Customs Administration
Estimated disbursements (Bank                      FY 2001   FY 2002   FY 2003
FYVIS$M):
Annual                                                1.9       10.7        1.3
Cumulative                                            1.9       12.7       13.9
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: March 1, 2001             Expected closing date: March 31 , 2004
Implementing agency: Croatian Customs Administration
Contact person: Mr. Davor Cilic
Address: Humboldtova 4 a, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Tel: + (385) 1 6102 420/98 322 102  Fax: + 385 1 6154 186     E-mail: Davor.Cilic(carina.hr



Page 2
The TTFSE Proiect : Key Design Concepts
How does this project differ from the typical project?
Re2ional Character. The six TTFSE projects are regionally linked in a program supporting
Croatia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, FYR Macedonia and Romania in their effort
to foster trade. All these countries are beneficiaries of the Stability Pactl. They seek to promote
more efficient and less costly trade flows across the borders of the participating countries and
provide EU-compatible customs standards. This requires the cooperation of the participating
countries and a mutual sharing of concerns for the reform of their Customs services. To assist such
cooperation and facilitate the sharing of information, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC) has
been created. All participating countries are represented on this committee and have signed a
Memorandum of Understanding detailing its role and activities. The United States (US) is funding
a secretariat for the RSC.
Reform Combined with the Provision of Infrastructure. The program will support the
implementation of on-going customs reforms and focus on integrated solutions at selected pilot
sites located on main European corridors. Customs reform is an essential part of the activities
Croatia needs to undertake to approximate the European Union legal framework. These pilots will
increase the productivity of border agencies, enabling shorter processing time at border crossings
and inland terminals. Reforms and pilots will need to be supported at some border crossings by the
upgrading of infrastructure. The project will finance physical improvements at these border
crossings, while critical elements of reformn proceed.
Non-Duplicative Structure. The TTFSE project seeks to help the Customs services implement
reform in a way least costly to the Governments. Governments will continue on-going customs
reforms supported by external contributors such as the European Union (EU) and will use grant
funding from the US and the EU for most of the technical assistance components.
Participatory Approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE project is based on
participatory methodology to ensure that the project belongs to the participating countries and is
endorsed and owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries. Consultations with
customs officials and users have occurred during the design phase and mechanisms are built into
the project to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and evaluation process.
Buildiny on PreviousIOnzoine Initiatives. Several international organizations have recognized
the need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided
assistance to start addressing it. The EU was the first to assist countries in the region to address
this issue. Its experience highlights the need for comprehensive reforms and carefully selected
upgrading of infrastructure. The Southeast European Cooperative Initiative2 also promotes
economic and environmental cooperation among the countries in the region, with a focus on
efficient transit, and combating corruption and smuggling.
l The Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of Foreign
Ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned with South
East Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic approach to the
region, replacing crisis management with preventative diplomacy.
2 Consisting of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania,
Slovenia, FYR Macedonia and Turkey, and established in December 1996 to promote regional economic and
environmental cooperation among the countries in the region. The initiative is being supported by UN-ECE, The US
government, and the governments of Italy and Austria.



Page 3
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objective (see Annex 1)
The proposed project forms part of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe3 that aims to strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control
agencies in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Romania. The Program, the result of a collaborative effort between the Governments, the
Bank, the EU and the US seeks two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project will achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting customs reform; (ii) strengthening
mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between border control agencies and the trading community;
(iii) disseminating information and providing training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure
and equipment at selected border crossings; and (v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new
customs procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques, supporting
infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms4 for agencies at border crossings.
Unlike other participants in the TTFSE program, Croatia has received limited external support to
implement the reform program of the Customs Directorate of the Republic of Croatia (CDRC) (Annex
11). With the new Government, it is expected that EU support to Customs reform may become available
as part of the EU approximation process by the end of 2001. The reform process necessary to change
institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to 10 years.
The reform involves simultaneous and sustained actions on (i) change in administrative and operational
procedures; (ii) definition of staff profiles for the organization and hiring, training and deployment
according to them; (iii) elaboration and implementation of a staff development plan; and (iv) introduction
of up-to-date information technology and regional interconnections. This project will provide support to
implement the customs reform at border crossings and inland terminals during the first phase of the
process.
2. Key Performance Indicators (see Annex 1)
Progress toward the objectives will be monitored by key performance indicators covering CDRC's
performance at a pilot inland terminal and at three selected pilot border crossings, and overall efficiency
indicators for the CDRC as a whole. The indicators include: (i) transport costs to/from the three main
trading partners and the transaction costs at these pilot sites; (ii) number of physical or documentary
examinations and their effectiveness; (iii) processing times; (iv) the value of recorded trade; and (v)
reported occurrence of corruption. In addition, a set of regional indicators will be used to measure
cost/time reduction in regional transport on three major corridors to evaluate the overall impact of the
program. A detailed set of indicators has been defined to follow the national and regional progress
throughout the project life (Annex 1).
3 Referred to in this document collectively as "the program" and nationally as the TTFSE "project".
4 Including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency awareness.



Page 4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
CAS document number: R99-89; IFC/R99-75    Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1999
The project would support the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy for Croatia that focuses on four
main objectives, which underpin the design and implementation of an export oriented development
strategy: (i) reducing the size of the public sector and increasing efficiency; (ii) improving governance;
(iii) creating conditions for competitive real sector improvements; and (iv) containing poverty.
The project is especially in line with the first three objectives. It would facilitate trade, improve the
environment for the private sector by reducing corruption and increasing transparency and strengthen
public finance. These elements are essential to move to export-oriented development and offer reliable,
efficient and competitive transport connections to serve private sector activities. The combined effect of
institutional strengthening and border crossing improvements would remove some of the existing excess
costs linked to trade and transport, thus providing an environment for faster development of the private
sector. The project would also support the enforcement of several international conventions relating to
the environment.
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
Trade is highly significant to the Croatian economy, equivalent to 60 percent of GDP in 1999 (Statistics
in Annex 4, page 6). The main trading partners are EU members (Italy, Germany, Austria), Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Slovenia and Russia (for oil import) (see IBRD Map 31069). Croatia's main exports
include transport equipment, textiles and clothes and chemicals. Main imports include transport
equipment, chemicals and man-made fibers, machinery and equipment, electrical and optical equipment
and crude oil and gas. There are no more obstacles to the admission of Croatia to the World Trade
Organization.
With its strategy of export-led growth, Croatia would be limited by its current trade and transport links.
The waiting time at the Croatian border crossings to be improved under the project alone creates an
estimated excess-cost of over US$11 million annually to the trade and transport industry. Waiting time
during 1999 ranged between one and four hour(s) at the various border crossings and was perceived by
the CDRC as increasing. Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) consequently face some excess costs to
trade and transport services that are insufficiently reliable and predictable for Croatia to be highly
competitive in EU markets. Any strategy based on the development of private SMEs and exports requires
the establishment of better trade connections with the outside world.
The Government places a high priority on reducing unemployment by stimulating private sector and
export development through an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. Developing institutional and
policy foundations are objectives of the ongoing efforts by the government with the Bank's assistance to
ensure the emergence of an enabling environment for the private sector. The customs reform will
introduce changes of procedures and computerization.
The CDRC plays a critical role in serving both the State and the trading community. The CDRC collected
about US$1.8 billion5 of governmental revenues in 1999. The Government has achieved encouraging
success in improving the services of CDRC and reducing trade and transport impediments. Private sector
observers recognize these efforts but underline that additional improvements remain to be accomplished.
5 The CDRC collected US$0.5 billion of customs duties and fees and US$ 1.3 billion of taxes and excise.



Page 5
The CDRC describes its mission in its strategy (Annex 11) as: (i) to protect society by enforcing
legislated restrictions and prohibitions on import, export and transit; (ii) to continuously support
economic development by maintaining an optimal balance between the facilitation of trade and the
effective application of laws and regulations; (iii) to combat all types of customs fraud; (iv) to collect
customs duties and other revenues as stipulated under the law; (v) to collect and analyze statistical data
on international trade; (vi) to suggest government initiatives and measures within the framework of its
competence; and (vii) to carry out its tasks in a rational and effective manner.
a. Modernizing Customs Code and Procedures
In preparation for the approximation with EU laws, the CDRC has aligned its Customs Code with the EU
Customs Code. The use of the Single Administrative Document (SAD)6 and the new Customs Code
came into force in January 2000. These efforts are in line with the CDRC's Program of Reform and
Modernization. The Program would enable CDRC within the next four years to reach fully EU
compatible organization, functions, and structure. The new Customs Code allows for selectivity, auditing
and different treatment of importers according to performance and compliance. A Code of Conduct to
fight against corruption is being introduced. The nomenclature of goods in the Customs Tariff is based on
the nomenclature of the Harmonized System Convention for description and encoding of items and
valuation follows the WTO Valuation Agreement. The CDRC now focuses on implementing the Code by
preparing a Customs Service Code and implementing regulations. The absence of established training
facilities limits the effective rollout of this Program. The CDRC intends to build on that basis the
procedures needed to facilitate trade and transport activities.
Stakeholders have indicated they have concerns7 about: (i) the overall complexity of procedures; (ii) the
lack of selectivity; (iii) the operations of other border agencies (opening hours, procedures); (iv) the
bureaucracy, organization and opening hours at inland terminals; (v) the lack of regional coordination;
(vi) the internal organization of Customs; (vii) the quality of the information system and the accuracy of
available information; (viii) the variations in interpreting, understanding and implementing new
legislation and procedures, linked to the insufficient training; (ix) the lack of effective interactions with
the Government; and (x) the overall time to clear.
The CDRC' intends to address these issues by re-engineering and automating its procedures, and
providing training to ensure uniform dissemination of these procedures. The TTFSE project would
support this effort. The good level of education of customs officers and the high proficiency of
management at all levels of the CDRC allow the achievement of these goals.
b. Upgrading Customs Facilities
Following the breakup of Yugoslavia and the war in Croatia, new border crossings and corresponding
border posts were created with temporary barracks and bridges. The CDRC has modemized over thirty of
its sixty major border stations over the recent years, mainly toward Slovenia and Hungary. It intends to
upgrade its facilities to the same level toward Bosnia and Herzegovina. Traffic flows have surged and are
expected to grow as Bosnia and Herzegovina recovers economically. Although some of the main border
posts have been fully renovated and new bridges added, some with significant traffic remain under these
temporary arrangements, with insufficient computer equipment and communication links with other
Customs offices.
Only five customs employees are in charge of information technology, since most of it is subcontracted.
The CDRC management information system started being modernized in 1993 by subcontracting
6 A standardized format for customs declarations, aligned to the UN key layout for trade and transport documents.
7 Rated 7.5 and above on a scale of 10 by a focus group.



Page 6
computerized services to a public entity forming part of the City Administration of Zagreb, GZAOP.
About 30 employees of GZAOP are dedicated to the development of the information system for the
CDRC. The Ministry of Finance provides resources for its information system under a long-term
agreement between the State and the City Administration of Zagreb. It covers the main customs houses
and offices.
Despite being relatively advanced, communication means do not offer tools required for facilitating trade
such as Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). Communications services are reliable and enable quick
response between 45 Customs Offices and 17 border crossings (representing 85% of all documents
submitted). In 2000, the CDRC expects to connect 15 additional border crossings. Such a system,
however, does not allow real time exchange of electronic information with other countries, EDI relations
with the various parties involved in trade, or transfers with other national public agencies. Customs
brokers have to print an entry form with all relevant information and submit the requested commercial
documents in hard copy and on a floppy disk at inland terminals to enable data to be entered in the
CDRC information system.
c. Improving Private-Public Interactions
Limited and sometimes late prior consultation with the trade community prevented meaningful and
constructive interactions until recently. The CDRC has now established new mechanisms such as regular
meetings with transport operators, systematic prior consultation and frequent meeting with other border
agencies. The Chamber of Economy and the Cro-PRO8 committee also provide mechanisms to reach
more consensual decisions. The CDRC will progressively become more accountable for facilitating trade.
This includes setting up mechanisms to keep track of impacts such as unjustified delays in the departure
of goods and cargo transfer, or down-time suffered by vehicles. The CDRC increasingly provides training
to its officers to improve the quality of the interactions with the private sector or offers consultation
mechanisms such as drop-boxes for suggestions at border locations. Further efforts will be required to
achieve the quality of services available in and compatible with the European Union.
d. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
Croatia, like all other participants in the Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI), recognizes
the importance of coordinated actions to address the above issues and achieve the objectives of the
Stability Pact. It is also recognized that each country can expect to gain from actions to be taken by its
neighbors. A regional view has thus emerged according to which participant countries will
simultaneously apply coordinated and compatible measures to reduce trade/transport impediments while
curbing corruption and smuggling opportunities. The regional cohesion is symbolized by the signing of a
regional Memorandum of Understanding by the six countries, as well as their willingness to regionally
benchmark country performance and to work on streamlined solutions at paired border crossings9 (Map
31002). The support shown by the EU and the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN-
ECE) as well as such bilateral donors as the US, reflects the importance attached to the development and
stabilization of the region. The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport (ECMT), the
International Road Transport Union (IRU), the World Customs Organization (WCO), and the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development are also providing support.
The participating countries see movement toward a form of integration with Europe as a major strategic
goal. The proposed program hopes to demonstrate an effective approach to regional cooperation.
8 Professional body bringing together public and private stakeholders, who seek to improve international trade
through the simplification and harmonization of procedures and practices in administration, commerce and transport,
in accordance with UN/CEFACT guidelines.
9 For example between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.



Page 7
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The Project will address to different degrees all four issues defined above, building on previous efforts
and taking full account of other external support to avoid any overlap. The project will combine
resources from the IBRD and the US. Given the interest of Croatia in the implementation of EU-
compatible standards and the need to ensure the overall compatibility of the program, active relationships
with the EU will be maintained. The project will seek improvements in: (i) procedures of border
agencies; (ii) border infrastructure and equipment; (iii) customs information systems; and (iv)
trade/transport business environment and professional performance.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project Components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The project consists of the following five components:
a. Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures
Includes: (i) technical services to define and prepare required legal amendments, bylaws and
administrative regulations to fulfill customs functions while facilitating legitimate trade, in cooperation
with other agencies; (ii) technical services to prepare and introduce new customs procedures and
documentation; (iii) technical services to reform the CDRC; (iv) technical services to monitor CDRC
performance; (v) technical services to streamline operations at three border posts and one inland terminal
on a pilot basis; and (vi) training to enhance inter-agency awareness and cooperation. This technical
support would complement ongoing Croatian efforts to implement the CDRC strategy.
b. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of conventional and distance learning training to participants in trade, logistics and
international freight transport through the Croatian Chamber of Economy (CCE); (ii) improvement of
cooperation between public and private parties using a virtual forum1o; and (iii) creation of a website and
provision of corresponding equipment to support information availability.
c. Support to CDRC Information System Improvement
Includes: (i) software and technical services to enable exchange of all information related to trade
(Electronic Data Interchange, electronic signature, digital payment) with other border inspection
agencies, users and neighboring countries; (ii) hardware needed to improve the current information
system (equipment availability and telecommunication) at border crossings and customs offices; and (iii)
a regional experience-sharing program on integrated systems for border agencies to stimulate regional
and interagency cooperation.
d Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Includes improvements of the border crossing facilities at Slavonski Brod, Gunja, Maljevac and Samac.
These border posts are located on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The component will consist
of paving and service lanes, the provision of building modules and buildings, lighting and canopies, and
drainage and other utilities at the four border stations.
10 Creation of an internet website that will enable exchange of views, user surveys and consultation.



Page 8
e. Program and Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support the regional and national implementation of the project. The
regional support will consist of the secretariat services to the RSC. The national support will comprise
the support of procurement advisors, external auditing services, support in the establishment of a
financial management system, and training to the Project Manager and his Project Implementation Team.
Cost Incl.
Contingen-           Bank-       % of
cies     % of   financing    Bank-
Component                 Category    (US$M)   Total   (US$M)   financing
A. Institutional Reform on Customs   Institutional     1.4      6         0.0        0
Procedures                            building
B. Trade Facilitation Development    Institutional     0.4      2         0.0        0
C. CDRC Information System           Physical/ Ins.    8.0    36          6.6       47
Improvement                           Building
D. Improvement of Border Crossing    Physical/ Ins.   11.5    52          7.0       50
Facilities                            Building
E. Program and Project Implementation   Project        0.7      3         0.4        3
Management
Total            22.1   100         13.9      100
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
Croatia has indicated its interest in turning toward an export oriented development policy. The project
components will support the policy and institutional reforms discussed below.
a. Strengthening of the CDRC
The capacity building component of the customs reform strategy addresses the following aspects:
*  approximation of the European Community legislation and implementation regulations, with
reference to the acquis communautaire" I and implementation and enforcement of related legislation;
*  review of the schedule of penalties to strengthen their deterrent effect on offenders;
*  adoption of simplified and standardized customs and border inspection procedures (compliance
measurement and selective inspection based on risk assessment);
*  development of analytical expertise to develop and maintain targeting and selectivity tools;
*  human resource management to develop customs/border inspection expertise and enhance system
integrity;
*  training for customs personnel to ensure the uniform application of new legislation, to improve the
fulfillment of CDRC's mission and to enhance integrity;
*  creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry community to
better coordinate working hours, procedures and information exchange; and
*  adoption of audits and account management processing to facilitate trade data exchanges.
II All treaties, policies and Community legislation in force for the European Union, that must be accepted by all
countries wishing to join.



Page 9
b. Strengthening of the CDRC Information System
Improvements in systems in use would have the following impacts:
*  elimination of multiple data entry;
*  creation of databases accessible in real time at all customs locations to support selectivity and
targeting procedures,
* exchange of information with other government agencies for processing and enforcement purposes;
*  support of international Electronic Data Interchange standards (UN-EDIFACT) to rapidly integrate
into the international trading community;
* possibility of electronic payment from users to the Government;
*  acceptance of electronic documents as official in customs procedures;
*  monitoring of customs performance, traffic patterns and capacity use;
* information exchange with other governments in the region; and
*  reduction in corruption opportunities by decreasing and monitoring human intervention.
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion. The implementation of joint pilot projects with Bosnia
and Herzegovina at selected border posts will strengthen regional cooperation at both local and national
level.
3. Benefits and Target Population
a. Benefits
The customs reform and decreases in trade and transport costs will lead to transparent customs
procedures, a reliable business environment, and economic growth as a result of lower prices for imports
and more competitive prices/services for exports. The benefits will spill over to government agencies and
private companies in other trade partner countries. This would translate into:
*  cheaper import goods / inputs for Croatian consumers and industries;
*  better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for the trade
activities of SMEs;
*  a more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
*  improved facilitation for transit traffic;
*  reduction of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
*  improved revenue collection by the CDRC, enabling reduction in tariffs;
*  uninterrupted services of information systems and better integrity of data; and
*  closer approximation with EU standards and procedures.



Page 10
b. Target Population
The beneficiaries of the reform would be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight forwarders,
other trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers inside and outside the
region.
Cross-border trade in the vicinity of the borders will be made easier for local companies. Travelers and
tourism would also benefit.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
a. Implementation Period
The project is to be implemented over a three-year period (2001-2003); it would be completed by
September 30, 2003 and closed by March 31, 2004. The Regional Program in its entirety would be
implemented in about 8 - 10 years.
b. Executing Agency
The Republic of Croatia will be the borrower. The project beneficiaries will be the Ministry of Finance,
the CDRC, the Border Agencies12 and the CCE. The implementation arrangements will include the
following elements: (i) a project manager and a project implementation team; (ii) a project coordinator;
(iii) a facilitation coordinator; and (iv) a regional steering committee (RSC). With the exception of the
RSC, these elements are extensions of existing institutions and use people already involved in similar
functions.
The Project Manager comes from the CDRC, which falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance. The Project Implementation Team (PIT) under his management will cover procurement, loan
management and reporting functions in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The PIT will coordinate the
project management for the various beneficiaries, prepare terms of reference, hire consultants, and
contract for services, training, goods, and civil works as necessary for the implementation of the project.
The Project Coordinator, the General Director of Customs, will represent Croatia at the Regional
Steering Committee. The Coordinator will call and chair coordination meetings of the various border
control agencies and manage their input when required.
The CCE will manage the trade facilitation component using its nominated Facilitation Coordinator,
who will interact with the Project Manager for the implementation of the facilitation component and the
coordination of the regional website. The CCE has ample experience in this field as demonstrated by its
existing website and its lead role in the national facilitation organization Cro-PRO.
The CDRC will be the main beneficiary of the implementation of the institutional reform and the
improvement of the information system. The CDRC and the border agencies will benefit from the
improvement in border crossing facilities. The CDRC and the border agencies will ensure that
appropriate technical expertise is engaged as required to support the Project Manager.
Given the scope (six countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the related policy and
institutional reforms anticipated, a Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting periodically at the
12 At border posts being built or upgraded, all border agencies will benefit from improved and more operational
facilities, and enhanced telecommunications; at pilot sites the improvements will also include streamlined procedures
across agencies and across border.



Page 1 1
regional level, will oversee the overall implementation of the program and the project. The participating
countries have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) setting up the RSC and held the
inaugural nmeeting in Skopje in February 2000. The RSC is made up of high-level officials of
participating countries and donor representatives as observers. It will provide guidance for the necessary
sector policy and reform decisions. Meetings are rotating among the participating countries, with the
Project Manager of the host country providing support services to the Committee.
The UN-EC'E is providing a secretary to the RSC to support the implementation of the program. The
secretary 13: (i) prepares the agenda, supporting documentation and minutes for the RSC meetings; (ii)
consolidates on a semi-annual basis the implementation reports of the countries involved in the program;
(iii) consolidates the annual review report of the PITs; (iv) assists in the trade facilitation efforts; and (v)
establishes a link to the SECI-PRO committees.
In order to provide a model of pragmatic solutions to border crossing problems across agencies and
border, the project will include implementation of operational reforms at three pilot border crossings
located on the main international corridors and one pilot inland terminal. Other countries in the
Program will similarly be treating as pilot stations the facilities on the other side of the border (see Map
31002). A set of indicators for project monitoring have been defined and agreed upon (Annex 1). In
addition a more detailed set of indicators for management purpose will be developed at these pilot sites.
These indicators will be used by each country to examine and allow the evaluation of comparative
performance.
This framework will provide an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be progressively
updated each quarter by the PIT in addition to the indicators in Annex 1 and offered to the RSC for
review and comparison. The lessons learned from these case studies will be extended to other specific
border crossings in the participating countries and to change management in general. Sharing the case
studies, along with other project reports, with the customs services and transport associations in countries
not associated with the TTFSE will set quality targets in customs reforms beyond the region.
c. Procurement and Disbursement
Civil works, goods and services financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines. T he Project Manager has appointed a procurement team satisfactory to the Bank.
The procurement specialists will receive training and will be supported by outside Bank procurement
advisors as required14. The project component not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance
with national regulations or the procurement regulations of the co-financing institution.
The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of
Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement
actions is presented in Table A2 of Annex 6. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review, the
capacity of the implementing agency in procurement, technical assistance requirements and the allocation
of loan proceeds are found in Annex 6.
13 The secretary, financed by a US grant, shares his time between his TTFSE responsibilities and the management of
the SECI-PRO committees.
14 The procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank procurement experience,
to be funded by the loan.



Page 12
d Accounting, Financial Reporting andAuditing Arrangements
A financial management system (FMS) including accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting,
auditing, and proper internal control systems has been established. The FMS meets the minimum Bank
financial management requirements. The Bank has reviewed the FMS and prepared a report identifying
weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system and enable the development of
appropriate project management reports with a view to the transition to PMR-based disbursements. The
Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for: (i) loan effectiveness; and
(ii) further strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation. The FMS is
compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Financial Management Manual, published by the
Bank. The development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the first
supervision mission and throughout project implementation.
The PIT includes for financial management purpose the members of another project implementation unit.
This unit, within the Ministry of Finance, handles four other World Bank projects using its three staff.
The Bank has reviewed the capacity of this unit to effectively provide the required financial management
functions for the TTFSE. The PIT will have accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards of Auditing issued by the
International Federation of Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIT will
also maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance
with sound accounting practices.
e. Reporting
The PIT will prepare quarterly progress reports and submit them to the Bank and the RSC secretary, who
will consolidate the reports on a semi-annual basis and then forward them to the Bank. These reports will
include: the progress of each project component, key performance indicators and procurement issues
(actions dealt with, actions planned, and an update of the procurement implementation). The report will
measure performance against the implementation schedule and compliance with loan covenants.
f Supervision and Evaluation Arrangements
Supervision will be managed at the national level by Bank headquarters staff with the active involvement
of the Field Office and at the regional level by a program team leader from Bank Headquarters. The Bank
will devote some US$60,000 per year for supervision of project progress through FY2003. This includes
the Bank's contribution to the time of a senior customs specialist, jointly funded by a French trust fund.
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, the Bank together with the PIT and
the other contributors (EU, US) will conduct a review of project execution. The review will assess the
status of regional and national implementation and cooperation, progress made at the level of pilot sites
compared to targets, development of the information system, implementation of donor programs, and
productivity of the CDRC. The review will offer refined targets and objectives for the following year and
a set of recommendations. The schedule of procurement for the coming year will be agreed at the time of
the review, considering the progress to date in the institutional reform.



Page 13
g. Monitoring
Overall, project monitoring will be based on perfornance targets and indicators and the Project
Implementation Plan. This plan was finalized by the Borrower and agreed upon during negotiations.
Monitoring will be carried out by the CDRC, assisted by consultants as necessary.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
a. Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country
The possibility of preparing fully independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and
rejected since the achievement of overall project objectives will be greatly aided by simultaneous
standardization and harmonization of cross-border institutions, operations, and legal framewdrks among
the countries and with the EU.
b. Regional Investment Project
A regional program of coordinated border crossing facilitation projects carried out more or less
simultaneously is more advantageous and was selected since it will:
*  generate substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade partner
countries of Croatia, which, if also implementing the program, will in turn bring benefit to Croatian
industries and consumers;
*  allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and border
control procedures and operations;
*  be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of European integration, and the
impact of the EU enlargement process;
*  enable the Bank to coordinate with other contributors that also implement regional programs; and
*  minimize project implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.
c. Regional APL
A regional or "horizontal" APL was considered, including Alternative b. above as a first phase, which
would have enabled sequential entry of countries in the Program and the delegation to the Regional Vice
Presidency of approval of operations according to a well defined operational blue print. This horizontal
APL, however, was judged to be undesirable because it would involve "stretching" the APL concept. The
determination of the future value of performnance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program
would have been a delicate and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program. For these
reasons, Alternative b was preferred.



Page 14
2. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Sector Issue                      Project                              Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects only)
Implementation  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Public Sector        Albania: Tax Administration Modernization        S               S
Management
Trade Facilitation   Estonia Transport                                S               S
Transportation       FYR of Macedonia: Transit Facilitation          HS              HS
Transportation       Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing            S               S
Highway Sector                                  S               S
Railway Modernization and Restructuring         U               U
Other development
agencies
EU                   EU-PHARE programs (in neighboring
countries but not in Croatia)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
Croatia has made considerable effort to improve its border crossings by building and upgrading more
than thirty crossings. The CDRC wants to build on this experience by completing some of its crossings
while simultaneously implementing its reform. The border crossing problem, by its nature, requires
coordinated and mutually reinforcing actions in many areas.
The Transit Facilitation Project in FYR of Macedonia completed in 1998 (ICR# 19408) highlighted the
need to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii)
ensure the capability of implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the
borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to ease implementation.
EU-PHARE's experience shows that to lessen transaction costs at border crossings, border crossing
investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate information on waiting
times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency
needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable telecommunication infrastructure and
equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of customs
procedures and removal of state controls on international trade.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the present project. It was tailored to respond to stakeholders'
concerns following active consultations. The project will support only the first phase of customs reform
and focus on the implementation of integrated solutions at national level and local level (pilot border
crossings). The pilots will stimulate cooperation across borders and among agencies to optimize
procedures, communication links and monitoring of performance. Customs users will receive training to
enhance their professional skills. They will be encouraged to voice their concerns and priorities through
the regional website and PRO committees and will receive accurate and timely information on existing
procedures.



Page 1 5
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
Croatia's commitment to the reforms under the project comes from its interest in legitimate trade
expansion and liberalization and participation in such regional activities as those promoted by SECI.
CDRC's preparation and adoption of the comprehensive strategic plan summarized in Annex 1 1 is a
strong and clear sign of commitment to the project and to the broader objective of EU accession, which
acts as a powerful stimulus for reforms. The recent creation of interagency working groups by CDRC and
consultative groups are actions supporting this statement.
5. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
At the outset, the commitment of the participating governments to the TTFSE objectives was weak. They
were unwilling to fund border crossing improvements entirely from their own budgets; long-term
financing was more attractive to them. The EU and other contributors had limited capacity to fund
infrastructure. As to technical assistance, the governments were (and remain) reluctant to borrow for
foreign technical assistance because of its high cost relative to local salaries. The best solution therefore
was to combine IBRD loan financing for infrastructure with US grants for technical support. The fact that
the Bank was willing to finance infrastructure only on condition that Customs reform and institutional
strengthening was carried out in parallel, has reinforced the attention given to the latter. Furthermore, the
Bank through its broader lending and country assistance strategies is well placed to help promote
cooperation and coordination of policies and public spending.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$25.5 million (12% discount rate); ERR= 49%
The project is expected to have a good return/ low-risk profile with a potential for high retum. The net
present value is estimated at US$25.5 million on an investment of US$17.9 million. Two benefits have
been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border crossings and
inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Waiting at border crossings is the concrete manifestation of inefficiency in trade related services. In the
European Union, customs administrations are required to keep 90 percent of vehicles waiting no more
than 20 minutes, or about 40 minutes to cross both sides of a border point. The difference between
present waiting times at Croatian borders and a target of 40 minutes to cross both sides of the border has
been used as the basis to test the economic justification of investing in border crossing improvements.
The savings on transport costs are estimated in excess of US$11.3 million per year after 2005 for
vehicles entering Croatia. The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times
are expected to lead, in the medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would make
use of existing excess production capacity. Extrapolating from analysis of some specific cases, the trade
expansion resulting from the project is assumed to generate a benefit equivalent to 20% of transport
benefits. The switching values and sensitivity analysis indicate a robust project. Reducing current
crossing time by only 30 minutes would suffice to achieve an ERR of 12 percent.
2. Financial and Fiscal
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be positive. The real volume of trade is probably higher
than shown by official records, considering the large size of unrecorded flows towards Bosnia and
Herzegovina and under-estimated values for customs duties and excise taxes. The improved performance



Page 16
of border crossings should provide the basis for an expansion of the official volume of trade and generate
additional customs duties and excise taxes.
The Bank will finance most foreign costs and, in the case of civil works, a part of local costs. The
Government will fund all other local costs, as well as all taxes and customs duties.
Given its high priority, the provision of local funds is not expected to create a problem: they represent
less than 4 percent of CDRC's annual budget. The Ministry of Finance will service the debt. The
resulting financial obligations will be small relative to customs' total revenues.
3. Technical
The proposed works consist of new and reconstructed buildings, additional traffic lanes and parking,
control booths and canopies, fencing, utilities and truck terminals. The site and building works in the
project do not require complex design or construction methods, but they will require scrutiny to make
sure that they are dimensioned to match expected flows of traffic per hour, including provision of
separate "green" and "red" channels, the separation of trucks from passenger traffic, and vehicle parking
space consistent with the speeded up processing. Design capacities will allow for peak travel times but
will guard against over-dimensioning. Building will be designed to improve the quality of service to
users, and will be dimensioned in accordance with EU standards.
The construction industry in Croatia is capable, with some contractors able to compete on an
international level. The market also is quite competitive at this time and the price level fairly well
established. Of all the countries taking part in the program, Croatia has produced the most functional and
cost effective border station designs. It will be necessary to employ full time site supervision services of
independent consulting firms to ensure the quality of the constructed product.
4. Institutional
a. Executing Agencies: Project Manager and his Project Implementation Team (PIT)
Implementation will be overseen by the Project Manager and his Project Implementation Team (PIT).
The Project Coordinator will assist the PIT in obtaining the input of the other agencies involved. The
Project Manager has recruited a procurement specialist and will use the financial management team in
place in the Ministry of Finance (page 12) to carry out the accounting, financial management and
reporting functions. The PIT will receive technical support from the Bank's senior customs specialist and
some support in relation to procurement. During negotiations, the organization, staffing, and resources
necessary for the PIT to operate satisfactorily were confirmed.
The Trade Facilitation Development component will be managed by the CCE in collaboration with
government agencies and the private sector. The CCE has designated a coordinator for this component.
b. Project Management: Regional Steering Committee
The Regional Steering Committee (RSC), meeting at least once every three months, will oversee the
coordination and implementation of the Program and the proposed project. The RSC is constituted of
high level officials (the project coordinators) of the participating countries empowered to implement
necessary sector policy and reform decisions.



Page 17
5. Social
The projec-t will have an indirect impact on the poor. The reduction in border crossing delays will reduce
trade and transport costs, and in turn, the cost of imported goods, leading to benefits to consumers and
lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing, with corresponding creation of new jobs. This
import effect, however, will be partly offset by losses incurred by local producers when new imports
replace local products.
The project aims at improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics through the
training extended to the business community. The TTFSE website will allow access to all information
related to border crossings in the six countries involved in the Program, improving to a large extent
transparency, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments. The electronic forum under the
website will empower the business community in the region and outside by enabling it to voice its
opinion on the quality of the border services received and propose corresponding recommendations to
smooth trade and transport activities.
6. EnvironmentalAssessment. Environmental Category     []A   [x] B   []C
Since the border crossing improvements involve enhancement of existing facilities or construction of
new facilities within developed areas, the Environmental Category is B. The scope of work includes
some expansion but no major fills are envisioned nor disturbance of forested or wetland areas. Removal
and disposal of waste and demolition materials should conform to international standards, and be a
contractual obligation.
All designs for station improvements will ensure compatibility with local environmental regulations and
conditions. Croatia environmental laws and permit requirements are considered to be consistent with EU
standards and are acceptable to the Bank for the construction activities associated with this project. The
responsibilities of the MOF outlined in the project Environmental Management Plan (Annex 10) have
been fully discussed with the client. The execution of these responsibilities will minimize negative
environmental impact and strengthen coordination and collaboration with the Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Zoning. The Environmental Management Plan is included as an annex to the PIP and was
agreed upon at negotiations by the government. Training will be provided to sensitize operational
personnel in the CDRC to environmental issues. In any event, the overall impact of the project should be
positive, since it should lessen waiting times and vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles at the
border crossings.
The project will also enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international conventions and
agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations included in such
agreements as (i) the European Agreement Conceming the Intemational Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the
International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of
Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP), of September
1970; and (iv) Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and
their Disposal, of May 1992.
A liaison officer has been designated to follow up the implementation of the Environmental Management
Plan.
7. Participatory Approach
The project's design reflects views expressed by principal stakeholders including such customs users as
truckers and freight forwarders. Bank staff has conducted extensive interviews and stakeholder analysis



Page 18
to identify trade impediments and their remedial actions. In addition, activities planned under the Trade
Facilitation Development component will foster opportunities for closer, more frequent and transparent
contact and feedback between CDRC and the trading community on a continuing basis.
In support of the reform of the work culture for the CDRC, the project will make available a consultant to
assist focus groups of key stakeholders. This activity will be coordinated with other aid agencies and
existing stakeholder groups (Cro-PRO and CCE). The Government will also initiate a public information
program designed to reach stakeholders and the public. User surveys are envisioned as a basis for
performance indicators. Principal stakeholders, for example truckers, will be also involved to monitor
border delays. The project will make intense use of Cro-PRO and counts on its feedback to monitor
improvements.
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), inforrnation sharing (IS) with
the following:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups
* Exporters, importers, producers and consumers (CON)
* Road transport operators and their association (CON)
* Freight forwarders/shippers (CON)
* Croatian Chamber of Economy and Cro-PRO (COL)
i Foreign investors (IS)
* Ministry of Finance and the CDRC (COL)
* Ministries of Interior and border police (COL)
b. Other Key Stakeholders
* Ministries of Agriculture and sanitary and veterinary inspection agencies (CON)
* The European Commission, the US Government and other development partners (COL)
- IRU and FIATA15
. WCO
* Private companies and populations in the vicinity of the border crossings (IS)
A specialist in participatory methodology will assist in the design and implementation of a project launch
workshop. The specialist will also provide a preliminary action plan, which will be adopted as a guide for
user participation under the Trade Facilitation Development component (Annex 2). The Action Plan will
use output provided by the participants that attend the Project Launch Workshop.
As follow-up to the Project Launch Workshop, the Action Plan will include, for example, such activities
as a series of user focus groups as well as user surveys. The focus groups will provide an open index of
user satisfaction. Surveys of such key stakeholders as truckers and freight forwarders will provide the
basis for more quantifiable informnation as part of the verification plan for the performance indicators,
assuring a central role of such stakeholders in project monitoring. The Project Manager with the
assistance of the CCE will be responsible for implementing the action plan. The results will be reported
as part of the annual reviews.
15 FIATA - Federation of International Forwarding Agents.



Page 19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The project will support values that are critical to fulfilling Croatia's long-term objective of achieving
sustainable growth. Once the reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort will be assured by
transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies including those
of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous
upgrading of the customs service, procedures, management, and equipment based on a reengineered
budget will enable the CDRC to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued
compatibility with the EU.
At the level of Croatia, the risks of project failure are modest. At the level of the region, effective
cooperation could greatly enhance the developmental impact but is subject to much greater uncertainty.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1)
Risk
Risk                      Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, "from Outputs to Development
Objective"
Cooperation among border agencies faces inertia  M   The high-level national coordinator will have the
and strong resistance.                               power to request meetings of the various border
agencies. Cooperation across agencies is already
effective.
Political commitment is not adequate to resist  M    The approach will be consolidated, providing an
pressure groups (public or private) and to ensure    effective counterbalance to pressure groups; and
the success of the institutional program.            clearance procedures will be made more transparent.
Coordination by RSC is not effective and not   M     Donors are an integral part of the Program. The RSC
supported by donors.                                 will include key decision-makers of each program
country and observers from contributor countries.
Slow implementation of procedural changes      M     A program of broad training/information to the
public/private sector will be established.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the        H     The MOU, the RSC, the regional website, the
achievement of regional goals.                       benchmarking and the willingness to cooperate with the
EU will create a favorable environment for proper
cooperation.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
The willingness to introduce significant changes at    M  The performance at pilot sites will be reviewed in the
pilot sites across agencies is low.                   context of other Bank operations.
The targeting and selectivity techniques are not  M  The performance at pilot sites will be reviewed in the
effectively implemented at an operational level.     context of other Bank operations.
High tumover of staff                          M     Proper human resource policy will be introduced.
Overall Risk Rating                            M     This is a modest risk, good-return project with a
potential high return.



Page 20
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Type of
Risk              Risk    Risk               Risk Minimization Measure
______ _____ _____ _____ ___  _ _____ R ating.
Delays in institutional changes  G     M    Coordination and direct support
Rejection by CDRC of           G       M    The level of corruption appears lower than in other
corruption as a significant issue            countries included in the program. Nonetheless corruption
prevention is a key priority for the CDRC.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0 (Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
a. Establishment of a financial management system acceptable to the IBRD.
b. Selection of independent auditors acceptable to the IBRD.
2. Other (according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreement)
a. By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and the Bank will review progress achieved under
the project including at pilot sites based on agreed performance monitoring indicators, and will
confirm the implementation program (including procurement packaging) and performance targets
for the following year.
b. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
achieve the following targets:
(i) the total number of customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by the CDRC
at its pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthly basis: (i) 35 percent by September 30,
2001; and (ii) 15 percent by September 30, 2002;
(ii) the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland
terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (i) 10 percent by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 25 percent
by September 30, 2002; and
(iii) the number of trucks opened at its pilot border-crossings does not exceed, on a monthly
basis: (i) 25 percent by September 30, 2001; and (ii) 20 percent by September 30, 2002.
c. By March 31, 2001, the Project Coordinator will establish a mechanism across all border
agencies to provide the Facilitation Coordinator with up-to-date information on waiting times
and opening hours at border crossings, Customs Code, bylaws, and procedures of border
agencies; this information shall be binding and made available to customs users in order to
contest a decision at a border post.
d. The Borrower will actively participate in the Regional Steering Committee and support it.



Page 21
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[]The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
Program Team Leader/Task Team Leader: Graham Smith / Gerald Ollivier, ECSIN
Sector Manager/Director: icardo A. Halperi E
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCO5






Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance tndicators                Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Ev'iluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
Support Private Sector Development  Total Merchandise Trade increasing from US$14.0 B in  *  Ministry of    Wealth is distributed appropriately to
1999 to US$14.5 B in 2002                               Finance           alleviate poverty.
Availability of information and training for the professional             Facilitating trade expansion will lead to
involved in trade and transport activities           *  CCE               higher GDP growth.
Road operators licensing is
approximated with the European
acquis".
Strengthen Public Finance        Quality of customs services gradually improving (user  *  Ministry of      Tax proceeds will be used transparently
Institutions                      survey                                                  Finance           and appropriately.
Eliminate Physical Bottlenecks   Improvement of border crossing points                 a  Ministry of
Transport
Project Development Objective:                                                                                        (Objective to Goal)
I. Reduce non-tariff costs to trade  *  Transport costs to/from the four main trading partners    *  Annual sampling  Business environment such as
and transport                        decreasing annually by 2 percent on average from year  by Chambers of   competitive market, post-privatization
2001                                                 Commerce and    corporate governance and judicial and
evolution of     regulatory systems will be improved.
CIF/FOB ratio    Reform in the banking/insurance sector
will reinforce trade activities.
*  Study performed   Reduction in tariff levels and non-tariff
at project       costs will enhance trade incentives.
UQ >
_CD



completion
2. Reduce smuggling and corruption    *   Value of recorded imports increased from US$7.8 B in   *  Customs agency   Non-customs tax collection will also be
at border crossings                     1999 to US$9.3 B in 2003                             annual report       made more efficient.
*   Occurrence of corruption cases down by 2003 16     *  Annual survey of
truckers crossing
the border
Outputs:                                                                                                                  (Outputs to Objective)
1. 1. Strengthen the institutional and   * Import clearance time at pilot terminal down from 4 hours   *  Logs of Customs  The transport sector will offer a
operational capacity of CDRC and    in 1999 to 40 minutes on average in 2003.              *   IRU in            competitive environment.
other border agencies              * Inland physical examination down from 60% in 1999 to    cooperation with    Cooperation between border agencies
10% in 2003                                             the National        will be supported by the National
* Percentage of trucks cleared inland in less than 15 minutes    Associations of  Coordinator.
up from 0% in 1999 to 50% in 2003                       Road Transport
* Average border entry time down from 75 minutes in 1999  Operators
to under 35 minutes by 2003.                          *   Ministry of       Border agencies will be given the
Finance             political mandate to innovate at pilot
*  Chamber of        sites.
Economy
1.2. Support customs users        * Internet framework and forum set up in 2001 for        *  Croatian           The banking / insurance industry will be
private/public sector information exchange. Internet site  Chamber of       able to provide services to the trade
visits exceed 300/month in 2001. Current border crossing  Economy           sector at a reasonable price.
situation available on the internet in 2001.          *  National
Coordinator
1.3. Improve main border crossings   * All works completed by June 2003                    Periodic surveys of    Reform programs supported by other
infrastructure                                                                             users on the duration   contributors will be implemented as
and the convenience   scheduled.
of border crossing
(incl. monitoring of
congestion)
16 See definition of indicators, page 6 of this Annex.



1.4. Complete an EU-compatible    *  Information systems interconnected with EDI by 2002  *  CDRC, clients    Appropriate staff available in CDRC for
information system to provide high    *  Time to obtain statistical data on foreign trade down to 7  and consultant    information systems.
level internal and external services  days in 2003                                                             Increased motivation, retention of
*  Number of information system staff increased to 12 by                    trained personnel.
2003
*  Level of interruption below I percent duI ing working
hours
2.1. Strengthen and increase the  * Risk Assessment & Selectivity effective by 2002       *  Ministry of       Reducing costs to trade and tariffs will
efficiency of on-site inspections to    * Number of irregularities/number of physical examinations  Finance    result in significant regularization of
prevent smuggling                  increased17 from 1% in 1999 to 10% in 2003             *  CDRC              trade.
Political commitment is adequate to
resist pressure groups (public or private)
and ensure the success of the
institutional program.
Project Components/Sub-           Inputs: (budgetfor each component) in US$ million1 8                                (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2for
project description)                                       .
A. Institutional Reform on                                 1.4                                                 Border agencies will actively participate
customs procedures                                                                                             in the implementation of pilots
US parallel funding is implemented in
time and with good quality
CDRC Procedures Study and                                  0.4
Preparation
Implementation & Training on New                           0.6
Procedures
Pilot Sites                                                0.4                                                 Customs policies in all operational areas
will ensure the uniform application of
new procedures.
The reengineered system will be
accepted and implemented.
B. Trade Facilitation development                          0.4                           National Coordinator  US parallel funding is implemented in
time and with good quality
Trade facilitation
17 During the first phase, the number of physical examination will go down significantly while improved examination will enable the better capture of irregularities. In the next
phases of the reform, this coefficient will go down, as informed compliance becomes more systematic.
18 The costs described below are costs excluding contingencies, including taxes.
 Ix



coordinator
Training                                                   0.3                                                 Other on-going regional initiatives for
trade will continue operating.
Website                                                    0.1
C. CDRC information system                                 6.8                           CDRC
improvement
I.- Software                                               2.0
2.- Hardware and                                           4.4                                                 The modules for targeting and selectivity
telecommunications                                                                                             will be operational nationwide by
December 2001.
3.- Training                                               0.4
D. Improvement of Border                                   9.9                           CDRC, MOF
Crossing Facilities
Slavonski Brod border crossing                             3.2
improvement
Gunja border crossing improvement                          1.9
Maljevac border crossing                                   2.2
improvement
Samac border crossing improvement                          2.4
Supervision of Works                                       0.2
E. Program and Project                                     0.6                            CDRC/PIT
Implementation
PIT and Front-End Fee                                      0.4
RSC Secretariat and Procurement                            0.1
Advisors
Auditors                                                   0.1
0 >



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Performance Targets
Indicators                                     Dec 1999    Sep 2000         Sep 2001      Sep 2002       Sep 2003
Act      Targ   Act   Tar              Targ.  Act   Targ    Act
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal (Jankomir)
Import Clearance Time (min)                       240       220            150             80            40
Physical Examination (%)                           60        50            35              15            10
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)            0         0              10             25            50
Irregularities/number of examinations (%)          15        15             1 5            15            15
Pilot Border Crossings (Macelj)
Truck Examination (%)                              40        35            25             20             15
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations (%)19       1         2              5              10            10
Average Border Exit Time (min)                     20        20            20              15            10
Average Border Entry Time (min)                    90        80            70             40             20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)         __
Pilot Border Crossings (Zupanja)
Truck Examination (%)                              40        35            25             20             15
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations (%)         1         2              5              10            10
Average Border Exit Time (min)                     70        60            50              35            15
Average Border Entry Time (min)                    60        60            50            040             2
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption (%)                         _
Pilot Border Crossings (Gradiska)
Truck Examination(%)                               40        35            25             20             15
Irregularities/ Number of Examinations (%)         1         2              5              10            10
Average Border Exit Time (min)                     70        60            50             35             15
Average Border Entry Time (min)                    60        60            50             40             20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption(%)
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue collected/customs staff (1,000 US$)       650       700            750            800           850
Total CDRC Cost/Revenue collected (%)              1.8       1.5           1.5            1.5         |15
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)                    1.2       1.2            1.1            1.0          O1 0
Trade Volume/Number of staff (US$ million)        2.5       2.5            2.6            2.7           2.9
Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom staff       420       440            500            800           1000
Transport Cost for the main export commodity      100       100            98             96             94
traded with the three main trading partners (DEM-
base 100 in 1999)
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ million)          7,800     8,160          8,550          8,950         9.330
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ million)      j   4,300     4,530          4,800          5,050         5.340
19 Any performance between 8 and 12 percent would be satisfactory.



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
Performance Indicators - Definitions
Indicators                        Description                               Remarks
1. Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Pilot Inland Terminal
Import clearance time  Time between entrance of truck into the    Information on truck identification and time
terminal and its exit from the terminal  of arrival and departure will be recorded
after release of goods                 with the use of computer terminals or time
clocks installed at the terminal entry/exit
points
Physical Examination  Number of times that goods are examined  Information will be derived from the
or the cargo compartment is searched   computer system that records all declarations
compared to the total number of import,   and from the requirement to prepare an
export, and suspense declarations.     automated report of the results of each
physical examination.
Trucks cleared in less  Time between entrance of truck into the    Information on truck identification and time
than 15 minutes      terminal and its exit from the terminal  of arrival and departure will be recorded
after release of goods.                with the use of computer terminals or time
clocks installed at the terminal entry and exit
points
Irregularities/number  Number of times that goods are examined  Inforrnation will be derived from the
of examinations      or the cargo compartment is searched   computer system that records all declarations
compared to the total number of import,   and from the requirement to prepare an
export, and suspense declarations.     automated report of the results of each
physical examination.
Pilot Border Crossin s
'I'ruck Examinations   Number of trucks actually opened (i.e.,   Information will be compiled through the use
seals broken) compared to the total    of computerized traffic logs and the
number of trucks processed.            requirement to prepare an automated report
of the results of each truck examination.
Irregularities/Number  Number of irregularities discovered  Information will be extracted from the
of Examinations      during examinations compared to the total automated reports of truck examinations.
number of trucks examined.
Average Border Exit  For trucks exiting the country, it is the  Information on truck identification and times
T'ime                time between joining the queue and     will be recorded continuously with the use of
crossing the border. Physically examined   computer terminals or time clocks installed
trucks are excluded.                   at appropriate locations.
Average Border       For trucks exiting the country, it is the  information on truck identification and times
Entry Time           time between joining the queue and     will be recorded continuously with the use of
crossing the border. Physically examined   computer terminals or time clocks installed
trucks are excluded.                   at appropriate locations.
Surveyed Occurrence  Number of cases when a driver makes or   Information to calculate this indicator will be
of Corruption        is asked to make an unauthorized       derived from surveys of truck drivers using
payment compared to the total number of  the crossing point. This survey will be
trucks/locations surveyed.             conducted on a continuous basis through
cooperating transport companies.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
2. Development Objective Achievements
Revenue             Total revenues collected/Total number of  Information to be obtained from records
collected/customs   customs employees                     maintained by the Customs Service.
staff
Total CDRC          Total budget of the Department        Information to be obtained from records
Cost/Revenue        (including salaries, overtime, bonuses,  maintained by the Customs Service.
collected           and benefits)/Total revenue collected
irrespective of its destination.
Salaries/Revenue    Total agency salaries, overtime, bonuses,  Information to be obtained from records
collected           and benefits/Total revenue collected  maintained by the Customs Service.
irrespective of its destination
Trade               Trade Volume/number of customs        Information to be obtained from records
Volume/customs      employees                             maintained by the Customs Service.
staff
Annual number of    Total number of declarations (import,    Information to be obtained from records
Declarations/       export, suspense regimes, but excluding    maintained by the Customs Service.
customs staff       transit), irrespective of the number of
items/Total staff employed by CDRC.
Regional Performance Indicators
2003
Itinerary                             2000       2001         2002       2003       as % of
2000
I. Istanbul-Bucharest Avg Time (hours)      80         78          75          71          89
Average Cost (DEM)    2,030       2,000        1,950      1,880        93
II. Istanbul-Tirana    Avg Time (hours)    192         189         182         172         90
Average Cost (DEM)    5,600       5,520       5,380       5,200        93
III. Sarajevo-     Avg Time (hours)         40         40          39          38          95
Ljubljana    Average Cost (DEM)    1,500       1,480       1,460       1,440        96
Base-year values are estimates by Bank staff for a single 20-ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight
forwarders in the Southeast Europe region.






Annex 2
Page I of 6
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Description and Schedule
A. Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures
(US Government Grant) cost with contingencies: US$1.4 million
Component          Subcomponent    Investment20                             Detail
_________________       (U SS)
1. Improvement of    1.1. Detailed study of    120,000    Includes the review of customs procedures for: (i) import-
Customs Procedures  current clearance                   export; (ii) transit; (iii) payment of duties; (iv) issuance of
procedures, working                guarantees; (v) collection; (vi) consignment of all kinds of
methods, and waiting               goods; (vii) suspense regime; and (vii) multimodal transport. It
times, and                         will also include a review of customs brokers activities. The
preparation of new                 new procedures should cover: (i) consistency in the application
procedures aligned to              of rules  and  regulations; (ii) selective  controls; (iii)
EU standards.                      harmonization of documents; (iv) post clearance inspections;
(v) preventive and investigation services; (vi) duty payment
and other financial issues; and (vii) progressive harmonization
of standards and mutual recognition of testing procedures. The
objective  will  be  transparency,  standardization,  and
simplification, adapted to local conditions, and taking into
account EU procedures.
1.2. Develop a         90,000     The objective is to implement a set of productivity and
monitoring                         workload indicators for each customs function, to measure the
mechanism for                      performance of the CDRC, and design the corresponding
productivity and                   monitoring systems.
workload indicators
to enable
international
comparisons
2. Preparation of    2.1. Technical          90,000     Assist the CDRC draft amendments to Customs and other
new Customs          assistance to draft                national legislation required to support the new Customs Code
Services Procedures  legal amendments to                and the modernization of the Administration.
the national
legislation.
2.2. Technical         90,000      Assist the  CDRC  draft sub-legislation  and  operational
assistance to draft                guidelines required for enacting new customs procedures.
regulations required
to implement the
customs code
3. Implementation    3.1. Study for          60,000     Review the present organizational and management situation
and training on new   restructuring CDRC.               and describe the organizational needs to meet EU Blue Print
procedures                                              Key  Indicators,  including  management  and  technical
proficiency.
3.2. Restructuring     120,000    Based on the new procedures and work culture proposed for
Customs Services to               the CS, assist the CDRC in the design and preparation of
_______ implement new                     mechanisms to identify and motivate reform oriented staff.
20 Includes contingencies and tax applicable in the US.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
procedures                            This will include the design of a staff evaluation system.
3.3. Strengthening of    60,000       CDRC will (i) introduce mobile control units to complement
preventive and                        the selective inspection at borders; (ii) develop its investigative
investigation services                capacity; and  (iii)  strengthen  post-release  audits. This
component is intended to assist the administration in setting up
its control strategy.
4. Training            4.1. Development of      40,000       The objective is to elaborate a training program designed to
a training program                    provide staff with the knowledge, skills and attitudes required
to handle the new procedures and techniques, at management,
existing, and newly recruited staff levels, the goal will be to
obtain a comprehension and acceptance of the new procedures
through seminars. Training for existing staff will emphasize
how the new procedures give them better tools to perform their
functions.
4.2. Training            180,000      The training  will include  (i) exposure  to  international
activities                            experience and (ii) training for all operational customs officers.
4.3. Interagency         150,000      This component will stimulate the proper functioning of border
awareness and                         agencies. It would include (i) sensitization of customs staff to
training                             the importance of environment; (ii) training of customs staff in
elementary veterinary and phyto-sanitary issues; (iii) training of
customs officers in elementary immigration processing; (iv)
training of judges, police and other officials involved in
customs prosecutions and (v) assistance for the implementation
of international conventions related to environment.
5. Pilot Sites        Designated border         360,000      Establish programs to implement new  border processing
and inland customs                   procedures and practices on a test basis, with a view to
stations will serve as                expanding the uses of successful ideas nationwide. Those areas
test sites for ideas to              to be addressed include procedures, staffing, automation, and
improve operations                    cooperation among agencies, as well as border crossing design.
Total (US$ million) with contingencies            1.4



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
B. Trade Facilitation Development (US Government Grant)
Cost with Contingencies US$0.4 million
Component    Sub component   Investment                                  Detail
(USS)
1. Strengthening  1.1. Establish and  100,000   Design a regional website and mechanisms to update it. The website will
of Private-Public  maintain a regional          enable transparency on policies, legal and regulatory framework and
Partnership      website to support             cooperation at a local, national and regional level among private and
the program and                public parties. It will offer a comprehensive information resource on
act as a national             border crossings and inland terminals (pictures), on. procedures of
focal point for               border agencies in the region, and support the implementation of the
trade facilitation             TTFSE Program. All training materials developed under the Trade
Facilitation Development will be made available on the site. This
component includes the equipment necessary to operate the site.
2. Improvement  2.1. Expert           300,000   Develop and implement a series of conventional and distance learning
of the           services and                   programs in trade, transport, and logistics focussed on facilitating trade.
performance of  training                        The programs will consist of: (i) a study guide; (ii) study sessions; (iii)
trade facilitation                             reference readings; (iv) frequently asked questions; (v) exams; and (vi)
agents                                          certification by a lead professional association. Seminars will be offered
for the most critical study sessions. Materials will be available either
electronically on the website or in the form of paper copies printed out
at the Chamber of Economy.
Total (US$ m)                               0.4
with
contingencies
C. Customs Information System improvement -
Cost with contingencies US$8.0 million
Component        Sub-component    investment 
(US)                                Detail_____________________
1. Software       1.1. Implement EDI      230,000    Establish the use of electronic messages as the exchange method
with traders and other             between all institutions/parties involved in trade, and determine
public agencies                    the parts of the UN/EDIFACT international standard message to
be shared. The process would lead to fully automatic procedures
with no human intervention.
1.2. Implement         230,000    Establish the use of electronic payment of duties using the
electronic payment of              UN/EDIFACT message specifically designed for that purpose.
duties                             The consultant will coordinate this activity with Customs, Banks,
Importers and Customs Brokers.
1.3. Implement the use    230,000    Establish the use of digital signature; including the selection of
of digital signature               the most appropriate translator and digital signature software. The
consultant must evaluate different alternatives and suggest the
most suitable one.
Additionally, the consultant would elaborate the necessary
procedures to authorize a private company as a Certifying
Authority. This company will be responsible for giving the private
_ and public key to each institution involved in the electronic



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
process.
1.4. Implement a RAS    300,000    The consultant must establish the IT solution to generate the first
system                             version of the risk criteria, and determine the best way to include
these criteria in the Customs system. The consultant would assist
in determining the best selectivity criteria for the Customs
administration.
1.5. Implement          100,000    Includes the preparation of a valuation database, integrating
computerized                       statistical data taken from import declarations and other sources
valuation and tariff               of intelligence, the introduction of a classification software
classification systems             package, and the establishment of a classification database
comprising classification decisions and identify-ing items likely to
be misclassified.
1.6. Upgrade existing   300,000    Includes the definition of a strategy to transform the existing
system to a web-based              system into a web-based system and the implementation of such a
system                             solution.  The new  system  will allow  EDI communication,
electronic payment and digital signature.
1.7. Install standard  200,000    Includes the installation of standard office/mail software package.
workstation software
2. Hardware       2.1. Increase the       720,000    Includes the purchase of PC and printers to complete available
availability of PC and             equipment in Customs Offices and replace obsolete equipment.
printers in Customs                The equipment would have a useful life of at least 3 years, and be
Offices and replace                technologically up to date. Computers would come equipped with
obsolete equipment                 office software.
2.2 Purchase intranet   200,000    Includes the purchase of 20 intranet servers.
service servers
2.3. Purchase EDI-      700,000    Include server and network to support the development of an
PKI technology                     integrated web-based EDI solution.
hardware
2.4. Upgrade            500,000    Include the required infrastructure to support the establishment of
infrastructure for                 the network of server (air conditioned room, power supply).
servers
3. Telecommu-    3.1. Connect main        1,500,000   Includes: (i) the installation of LANs at border crossings to
nications         Border Crossings with               permit the connection with the Data Center; (ii) the consolidation
the Data Center.                    of data at the Data Center; (iii) the connection of the new
locations; (iv) the purchase of modems; and (v) linkages to be
established by the Croatian Telecommunication Company. These
LANs must, according to current standards, include racks, patch
panel, routers, and hubs connecting in a star topology over
TCP/IP protocol. The amount of connections in each location will
depend on the number of computers installed. The LAN must
allow connection with Border Police locations.
The Wide Area Network must establish connections, taking into
account the telecommunications company capabilities or install
dedicated line between each point. The speed of the line must be
at least 64 KBPS and ISDN technology be evaluated.
The telecommunication protocol used should be TCP/IP to ensure
a complete use of the Wide Area Network (using e-mail or
Internet).
4. Procurement    4.1 Support in           60,000     Includes assistance to the CDRC to develop and negotiate the
support           procurement of                     information technology component and manage the subsequent
Information



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
technology                         contract execution.
5. Training       5.1 Regional             50,000     This component will enable the organization of seminars to share
experience sharing                 regional experience in implementing the reform and technical
program                            solutions.
5.2. Training for new   250,000    Includes the training related to the new systems being established,
system                             inclusive of incidental expenditures (travel, per diem).  This
training will be included in the two large supply and install
contracts.
Total (US$ million) without contingencies   5.6
and without taxes
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities -
Cost with contingencies - US$11.5 million
Component    Investment2l                                        Detail
(US$)
Slavonski Brod         2,600,000 Construction of a new border station in the City of Slavonski Brod (Sava River). An
border post                      existing railroad embankment will be partially removed to improve the approach to the
improvement                      bridge being replaced. The station will be expanded from  its previous state to
accommodate six lanes of entry and exit traffic for cars and buses. There will be four
dedicated lanes for trucks. Building modules, canopies and booths, lighting, weighing
scales, and utilities, will also be provided.
Gunja Border           1,540,000 Construction of an expanded station on the site of an existing station (Sava River) to
Post                             accommodate added lanes of entry and exit traffic for cars, trucks and buses. This
includes building modules, canopies, booths, lighting, weighing scales, and utilities.
Maijevac Border        1,800,000 Construction of an expanded station on the site of an existing station to accommodate
Post                             added lanes of entry and exit traffic for cars, trucks and buses. This includes building
modules, canopies, booths, lighting, weighing scales, and utilities.
Samac Border           2,000,000 Construction of a new station to accommodate traffic crossing the bridge to be
Post                             constructed by USAID. The station will be expanded from its previous state to
accommodate six lanes of entry and exit traffic for cars and buses. There will be four
dedicated lanes for trucks. Building modules, canopies and booths, lighting, weighing
scales, and utilities, will also be provided.
Supervision              160,000 The project includes the contracts for supervision at Slavonski Brod, Gunja, Maljevac
and Samac.
Total without                8.1
contingencies and
taxes (US$
million)
21 Without taxes or contingencies.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
E. Program and Project Implementation Cost with Contingencies US$0.7 million
Component          Sub Component  Investment                            Detail
(USS)
PIT and Front-end Fee   Operating costs     130,000   Operating costs (Government financed).
PIT support         120,000   Procurement  support,  financial  management  system,
translation, training to the PIT and accountant.
Front-end fee       139,000
RSC Secretariat        Consultant services    105,000   Secretary and advisors financed by the US Government.
Procurement Advisors                          (NBF)
Auditors               Consultant services    100,000
Total (US$m)                                    0.6
without contingencies



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Estimated Project Costs
%      % Total
(1US Mollinn)     Foreign     Base
Local  FortAgn   Total   Exchalige   cnstv
A. Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures
CDRC Procedures Study and Preparation                             -       0.4      0.4         100        2
Implementation & Training on New Procedures                       -       0.6      0.6         100        3
Pilot Sites                                                               0.4      04          100        2
Subtotal Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures                 -       1.4      1.4        100         7
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Website Development                                               -       0.1      0.1         100        1
Training and Seminars                                           n.o       03       03           8S        2
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                           0.0       0.4      0.4          89        2
C. CDRC Information System Improvement
Software                                                        0.6       1.4      2.0          70       11
Hardware and Telecommunications                                 0.8       3.6      4.4          82       23
Personnel Training                                              0 l       (3       0-4          70
Subtotal CDRC Information System Improvement                      1.5       5.3      6.8          78       36
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities
Slavonski Brod Border Post                                      1.6       1.6      3.2         49        17
Gunja Border Post                                               1.0       0.9      1.9         49        10
Maljevac Border Post                                            1.1       1.1      2.2         49        12
Samac Border Post                                               1.2       1.2      2.4         49        13
Supervision of Works                                            ().l       . 01    0(2         70         1
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities                5.0       4.9      9.9         50        52
E. Program and Project Implementation
PIT and Front-end Fee                                           0.2       0.2      0.4          58        2
RSC Secretariat & Procurement Advisors                            -       0.1      0.1         100        1
Auditors                                                        o.n      0n1       0           R2         1
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation                       0 12      0-4      0.6         70         3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                               6.7     12.3      19.1         65      100
Physical Contingencies                                          0.7       1.3      2.0          64       11
Price Contingencies                                             0-6       0 4       1l0        40         5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                8.1     14.0      22.1         63      116



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Component by Financiers                                                                                                                           Local
IRD               GOC                USA              Total         For.   (Frl.  Duties &
Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount   ffo    Amount   Y           Ercl.  Taxes)   Tans
A. Institutional Refrm tox Custems Prnceduros
CDRC Procedures Study and Preperation                               -        -         -       -       0.4   100.0       0.4      1.8      0.4
Implementation & Training on New Procedures                         -        -         -       -       0.6   100.0       0.6      2.8      0.6
PilotSites                                                                                             0.4   100.0       0.4      1.7      0.4
Subtotal Istittional Retinnaon Custou Procedures                      -        -        -        -       1.4   1000        1.4      63       1.4
B. Traide Facilitation Devldoienl
Website Development                                                 -        -        -        -       0.1   100.0       0.1      0.5     0.1
Training andSeminurs                                                                 00                0.3   100.0       0.3      1.4      03      0.0
Subtotal Traie Facilitation Develepnmt                                -               0.0                0.4   100.0       0.4      1.9      0.4     0 0
C. CDRC lnlrinatimn System siyruvement                                                                                       -        -
Software                                                          20      82.0       0.4    180                          24      10.9      1.7     0.3       0.4
Hardware end Telecommunications                                   43      82.0       0.9    18.0         -       -       5.2    23.6      4.3        -       0.9
Personnel Training                                                0.4    82)0       0.1    18.0                          0.4      2 0     0.3      0.1       0.1
SubtotalCDRCl dbmnationSystem nlrowement                            6.6    82)0        1.5    18.0         -       -       8.0    36A       6.2      0.4       1.5
D. JIprmmext of Berder Cressing Facilities                            -                                    -       -                  -                -         -
SlavonslrfBroad Border Post                                       2.2    600         1.5    40.0                         3.7    16.8      1.8      1.3       0.7
GunjaBorderPost                                                    1.3    60)0       09     400          -        -      2.2      9.9      1.0     0.7       0.4
Melevac BorderPost                                                 1.5    600        10     40.0         -        -      2.6    11.6       12      0.9       05
Samac Border Post                                                  1.7    60.0       1.1    40.0         -        -      2.8    12.9       14      1)0       05
Supervision of Works                                              0.2    82.0       0.0    18.0                          0.2      1)0     0.2      0.0       0.0
SubbtotallnrvewmentofBorder Cressixg Facilities                     710    60.4       4.6    39.6          -       -      115      522      56       3.9       21
E. Ps-gnm and Project boplementation                                                                      -                  -        -       -        -
PIT and Front-end Fee                                             023    56 7       0.2    43.3          -       -       0.4      2.0      02      0.2       0)0
RSC S ecretesiat & Procurement A dvisors                            -        -        -        -       0.1   100.0       0.1      0.5     0.1        -         -
Auditors                                                          01      82.0      0)0    1810                          0.1      06      0.1                00
SubtotalProgram audPssjectlInulementation                           04      52.9      02      315        0.1    15.6       07       3.1     0.5      02        00
Total Disbursement                                                 139    63.1         62     28.2       19       8.?     221   100.0    144D        4 5       36



Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Cost Benefit Analysis of Total Project Investment
Table 4.1. Summary Economic Benefit from the Project
COSTS           BENEFITS    _
FY                           ____________        Net Benefits
(in USS million)  (in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
2001                      2.5              0.4              -2.1
2002                     13.5              2.7             -10.9
2003                      1.8              8.9               7.1
2004                                       7.9               7.9
2005                                       6.8               6.8
2006                                       5.6               5.6
2007                                       5.7               5.7
2008                                       5.9               5.9
2009                                       6.1               6.1
2010                                       6.3               6.3
2011                                       6.5               6.5
2012                                       6.7               6.7
2013                                       6.8               6.8
2014                                       7.1               7.1
2015                                       7.3               7.3
2016                                       7.3               7.3
2017                                       7.3               7.3
Total                    17.9            105.0               87.2
lnternal Rate of Return                                    49% /
IDiscount Rate                    I      1
tNPV @ 12%    T                14.31            39.9              25.5
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation
The border crossings proposed for improvements under this project were selected on the basis of: (i) high
traffic; (ii) geographical location (on international routes); (iii) waiting time at present; and (iv) need for
upgrading. These border crossings were designed to ensure efficient and transparent border operations,
while fitting the more stringent norms of the European Union regarding office space occupancy. The
analysis was built in close coordination with local parties (CDRC, Ministry of Finance) reviewing
alternative remedial measures.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over its assumed 15-year period of expected life. Detailed calculations on costs
and benefits are shown in Table 4.1. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 2000 prices. All
investment costs are net of import duties and of either taxes or subsidies.



Axx-4-Table 4.2
Fcowoiuc Cost-BemeSt Aavyai                          FWepvblic of Croatie
(lMillions of USS in 2000 prices)
PY                                                    2601     22        2003      2064      2005     206       206       2601      2009     2610      2011      2012      2013   2114         201S
Investment Costs
ltrh the Pzojact
Trade Facilitation Deveoptmesti              0.2       0.1       0.1
Customs Adm. Irstititional Reform           06        0.5       0.3
Information System improvement               1.8       4.4       0.4
Boxdex Facilities improwvment                0.0       8.5       1.0
Total iSh the Povjer                         2.5      13.5       1.8
Total Increenteal Cats                                   2.1      13.6       1O       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       .0            0.60           6.6       0.0       0         0.0       0.0
E&ononac Belafits
1. TraIport Coet ReAuction (with project)
PilotCrossius                                01        04        16       24        25        25        26       27        28        28        2.9       3.0       3.1       3.2       33
Other CxossingslPosts                        0.0       0.1       1.9       2.8       2.9      30        3.1       3.1      3.2       3.3       3.4       3.5       3.6       3.8       3 9
Pilot Inllnd Terminal                        03        16        3.9      5 8       5.9       61        6.3       6.5      6.7       6.9       7.1       7.3       7.5       7.7       8 0
Total                                        04        22        74       109      113       116       120      123       12.7      13.1      13.5      13.9      14.3      14.7      151
2. hyoat of Re4wei Trauprkt Costa on Tiade
Trade Benefits from Trawport Cost Reduction  0.07      0.4       1.5       2.2      2.3       2.3       2.4      2.5       2.5       2.6       2.7       2.8       2.9      2.9        3.0
3. Trasaport Cott Reduction (weitloutproject)                                         -52      -6.8     -8,4      -8 6      -89       -9.1     -9.4      -97      -100      -10.3    -10.6    -10.9
Total Bemefit, frsm Pueject                              0.4       2.7       891       79       6.8        56       57       5 9       61        63        65        67        68        71        73
Net Benefit fre Project                                  -2.     -10S        71        79       68        56        57        59       61        63        65        67        68        71        73
CD >
OCD
O\ -s



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$17.9 million excluding taxes and
including physical and price contingencies. It includes the following components: (i) Customs
Administration Institutional Reform; (ii) Trade Facilitation Development measures; (iii) CDRC Information
System; and (iv) Border Crossing Facility Improvements. It does not take into account the cost of the
program and project implementation.
Benefits - With Project Scenario
Two benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at border
crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
Some time savings will accrue as well to passenger traffic at the crossings. This element was not included in
the analysis but will be monitored over the project life at pilot sites.
Trade and Transport Costs Reduction. The savings on transport costs at Croatian border crossings and the
inland terminal under the project would progressively reach about US$11.3 million in 2005. Delays at
border crossings and inland terminals are symptomatic of a number of issues associated with deficiencies in
trade related services: procedural complexity, cumbersome documentation requirements, systematic checks,
slow customs clearance steps, scarce and unreliable information technology and telecommunications,
absence of standard service times and inadequate infrastructure.
Assumptions. The progressive reduction of border crossing time22 to forty minutes for incoming traffic from
Bosnia and Herzegovina and to thirty minutes for trucks coming from Slovenia and Hungary has been used
as the basis in the economic evaluation of the project. The three pilot border crossings (Macelj, Gradiska
and Zupanja), the border crossings where physical improvements would take place and the pilot inland
terminal would progressively meet this objective by 2003. The average waiting time for trucks in the "do
nothing" alternative is the mid-estimate as reported by customs users and officials. The average value of
time for trucks was obtained through interviews (US$340/day). Traffic will be impacted by five broad
parameters that are difficult to forecast accurately: (i) the recovery of the Croatian and Bosnian economies;
(ii) the re-routing of traffic as bridges and official border crossings reopen; (iii) the reduction of traffic
crossing through the large number of non official border crossings as a result of better scrutiny at the border;
(iv) the progressive reduction in donor financed assistance to Bosnia and Herzegovina; (v) the resurgence of
trade in the vicinity of the border. Overall traffic growth was assumed at 3 percent under the category "trade
and transport cost reduction", compared to a base traffic corresponding to periods when the corresponding
bridges were operational.
In order to realize the economic benefit from the waiting time reduction, both the physical investments and
the customs reform are jointly required because the customs reform alone can not completely reduce the
waiting time. For example, the implementation of new procedures requires additional lanes to allow for
traffic segregation, appropriate space covered by canopies for secondary inspection23, proper
communication capacity with limited interruption (LAN, WAN, phone, fax). The project will specifically
address these border posts where infrastructure or equipment bottlenecks exist. The information equipment
will significantly impact operations at inland terminals and border crossings by: (i) improving sound
decision making; (ii) ensuring selectivity and targeting; (iii) giving access to intelligence information. This
impact will be monitored over the life of the project but was not quantified as part of the evaluation.
22 From entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country.
23 Selectivity means not only that not all trucks are inspected, but that those inspected are subject to a far more detailed
inspection than today.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The impact on trade under the project comes from: (i) reduction in
waiting time at border crossing points; and (ii) increased reliability in the delivery of goods. In a competitive
market, these two elements will be reflected in the price of traded goods, and stimulate trade. The increased
reliability of international delivery times will facilitate the integration of local companies into international
production chains.
In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should enable a significant increase in trade volumes.
Such trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation and trade-substitution effects24. Imports would be
the most affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on imports. However the regional
nature of the project would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import volumes would benefit local
consumers (inclusive of local companies relying on foreign inputs for their production) by increasing their
consumer surplus and would create a loss for some local manufacturers, whose products become replaced by
new imports. Increased export volume would benefit local producers by opening new market opportunities
and would reduce local consumer surplus by reducing the quantity available on the local market at the initial
price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper international transport is complex to analyze even in countries with
valid statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into account the monetary/foreign
exchange impacts of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality of data available on the six
Balkan countries, such a detailed evaluation would not be realistic. The outcome of various studies25 on this
phenomenon shows these additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent over the transport savings
generated. For the purpose of this evaluation, 20% was considered as the most appropriate. Exhibit 4.1
provides an at-a-glance summary of trade for Croatia.
Benefits - Without Project Scenario
If the project were not taking place, reform efforts would continue to be implemented and would receive
outside support in the near future. The differential between the with or without project scenarios in terrns of
costs includes only the project costs as described above. The external support would enable the Customs
services to partly achieve the objectives of this project on a delayed schedule. The benefits associated with
"the without project" scenario were subtracted from the benefits in the "with project scenario" to obtain the
project benefits. It was estimated that, without the project, 40 percent of annual with project benefits would
be achieved in 2003, 50 percent in 2004 and 60 percent in 2005 and onwards. The absence of needed
infrastructure without Bank's financing would impose a limit to the efficiency that could be achieved,
explaining that only 60 percent of the savings could be reached without the project.
Sensitivity Analysis on EIRR
Table 4.3 presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on the economic internal rate
of return of the project. The internal rate-of-return for the project is robust as shown by the low
switching values. In all cases tested, the projected rate-of-return remains well above the opportunity
cost of capital.
24 The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country for a commodity from an exporting country,
resulting from the price decrease associated with the elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution accounts for
the tendency of importers to substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the import price of
supplies from one source.
25 Notably ' The welfare implications of transport improvements in the presence of market failure", Anthony Venables,
London School of Economics and Michael Gasiorek, School of European Studies.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Table 4.3. Sensitivity Analysis
% chage in Paramcter
|  Up"i4e%          Dowsi  -20
Modified Parameters                      EIRR              EIRR
Daily Truck Value (US$)                  62%               37%
Trade Related Savings                    51%               47%
Traffic Volume                           62%               37%
Investment cost (-)                      66%               39%
Investment cost (-) and Traffic Volume   85%               29%
Table 4.4. Switching Values (for IRR @ 12 percent)
Daily Truck Value (US$/day)              116
Trade related benefits coeff.             <0
Traffic volume/existing traffic         34%
Minimum Time Savings
(in minutes)  _                  30



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Croatia Goods Trade Outook (1999)
TRADE INDICATORS                                                                            Trade trend, USD billion
10
1995   1996   1997    199I   19199
Exports goods (fob) in US$ bilion  4.6     4.5     4.2     4.5     4.4      6
Imports goods (fob) in US$ billion  7.9    8.2    9.4      8.8     7.7
Balance on Goods                  -3.3    -3.7   -5.2      4.2    -3.3
Growth Exports                       -   -2'/.   -79/o     8i/o   -4%       O
Growth Imports                       -    4%      15%     - 7%    -12%/
Total Trade of Goods             12.5   12.7   13.6    13.3   12.0
Growth Trade volume                  -    2%/0    7%/6    -2%    -10% 5 
Real GDP in USS bilion           18.8   19.7   20.1    21.8   20.2                1986        1996        1897        1998        1999
Exports as % of GDP              24%     23%    21%       21%     22%
Imports as % of GDP              420/6   42%o   47%       40%     3 8%       _  Expod-Goods FOB        Import-Goods FOB ----Balance
Trade as % of GDP                66%      64%    68%      61%    60%1
TRADE STRUCTURE
1998            1999                Performance of leading export grouped by
Main Exports by sector, fob           USS min      %  USS rIn      %                    SITC, 1997 value in USD min
Food and live aninials                    385       8      292       7      18
Mineral fuels andlubricants               264       6      332       8      16                               Telecom. Equ)j,
Chemical products                         545       12     514      12                             Avesage                 ( 92)
Manufactured goods                        584      13      572      13      14 -
Machinery and transport equipment        1,380     30    1.247      29      12                       Fo
Miscellaneous manufactures               1,022     23      965      22             Furniture   125  F        p r
ToW uakrdlng others            4,541    100   4,372       1D0 a    10 mo                                              Average
Xo s                                    1%T-- r--21--
Main Iraports by sector, elf               Z994             1998                C6     t:   j     )
TransportEquipment                        443      8.5   1,448    17.3       4                 J                  ood,worked
Chenucals                                 532    18.2      942    11.2           Mens clothing
Machinery and Equipment                   490      9.4     895    10.7       22
Metal Products                            365     7.0      663     79        O   Petrol, producto
Electrical Equipment                      429      8.2     612     7.3                                          sips boats
Food Products ano Beverages               419      8.8     569     6.8       -2 -                                      boats
PetroleumandGas                           474      9.1     418     5.0         -20  -15  -10   -5    0         l 10   15   20   25   30
Agricultural Products                     210      4.0     284      3.4                               Trend 93- 97. %
Total bucafd others            5,229  1O.0   8,773   100.0
TRADE DIRECTION                                                          Main trading partners, 1999, %  of total
l9Y5   lY97    1998   1999 
Exports by country group, fob                                                   Export (goods)                   Import (goods)
EU                                       2672   2.074    2161    2088            $4,372 m fob                      $7,674 m cif
EFTA                                       59      49       80    148                                                   Grrn.n
CEFTA                                                      603    t81                    Italy                            1         t russia
Bosnia and Herzegovina                                     654     547         Others  18.%                  / Italy           /      %
-oarow AhrdJnothO s)            4,633  4,171   4,541  4,372             36.7          erm                                      on
imports by count,y group, cif                                                      /                                                   8%
EU                                       4.664   5,412   4.980                               2                  Others               ustria
EFTA                                      219    244       231           Ausra             ovnla                 71%
Other developed countnes                  417    604    . na.              8.2%            10.6%
Developing countries                     2,210   2,844     n a.
rTotw (-ching 01o e)             7,510  9,104   8,773
Foreign trade and Croatian economy showed signs of recovery in early 2000. Data analysis is rendered difficult by the combination of the fall in the Euro:US$
panty and the sharp increase in oil prices. The growth in the EU fuelled the growth in Croatian exports during the first semester 2000 (a 35% growth rate in
nominal euro terms) This included sharp increases inintermediaryproducts (refined oil fertilizers). The more tradtional sector of textde suffered from outside
competitive pressures. Transport exports, dominated by shipbuilding were down reflecting the long order cycles specific to that industry. Export to Bosnia and
Herzegovina dropped by close to 7 percent in euro terms, a worrisome development since this country is a significant partner for Croatia.
Imports were almsst unchanged in the first semester 2000 in dollar terms at USS3.7 bdion but increased in euro terms reflecting an increase in consumer
spendingandhigherpoilpce. Germany (18.5% oftotalimports) and Italy (15.9%) were the largest exporters to Croatiain 1999. The acceleratedgrowvthin
exports resulted ir. a reduced goods trade deficit of US$3 3 billion.
Sources Croatiar Nalional Bank, World Bank. IMF. EIU



Annex 5
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Financial Summary
(US$ Million)                                                Totals Including Contingencies
FY2001  FY2002  FY2003   Total
A. Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures
CDRC Procedures Study and Preparation                      0.2       0.2        -     0.4
Implementation & Training on New Procedures                0.2       0.3      0.2     0.6
Pilot Sites                                                0.2       0.1      0.1     0.4
Subtotal Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures          0.6       0.5     0.3      1.4
B. Trade Facilitation Development
Website Development                                        0.1       0.0      0.0     0.1
Training and Seminars                                      0.1       0.1      0.1     0.3
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                      0.2      0.1      0.1      0.4
C. CDRC Information System Improvement                         -         -       -        -
Software                                                   0.5       1.4      0.5     2.4
Hardware and Telecommunications                            1.5       3.7        -     5.2
Personnel Training                                         0.1       0.2      0.1     0.4
Subtotal CDRC Information System Improvement                 2.1       5.3      0.6     8.0
D. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities                   -         -       -        -
Slavonski Brod Border Post                                           3.3      0.4     3.7
Gunja Border Post                                            -       2.0      0.2     2.2
Maljevac Border Post                                         -       2.3      0.3     2.6
Samac Border Post                                            -       2.6      0.3     2.8
Supervision of Works                                                 0.2      0.0     0.2
Subtotal Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities             -      10.3      1.2    11.5
E. Program and Project Implementation                          -         -       -        -
PIT and Front-end Fee                                      0.2       0.1      0.1     0.4
RSC Secretariat & Procurement Advisors                     0.0       0.0      0.0     0.1
Auditors                                                   0.0       0.0      0.0     0.1
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation                  0.3       0.2      0.2     0.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          3.2      16.5      2.4    22.1
Project Financing                                       FY2001  FY2002  FY2003    Total
IBRD                                                       1.9      10.7      1.3    13.9
Government                                                 0.5       5.1      0.6     6.2
US                                                         0.8       0.7      0.4      1.9
Total Project Financing                                      3.2      16.5      2.4    22.1
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding






Annex 6
Page I of 9
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all wholly or partially IBRD financed contracts.
General. Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IBRD would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly
financed by IBRD would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. As soon as
possible and no later than June 30, 2000, a General Procurement Notice is to be prepared by the PIT and
transmitted to IBRD for publication in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) to advertise all
assignments expected to be financed by IBRD under the project. Standard documents published by the
World Bank/lBRD will be used by the PIT for the preparation of bidding documents and request for
consultant's proposals.
Procurement of Works. All IBRD civil works contracts will be financed under International Competitive
Bidding procedures (ICB).
Procurement of Goods. Contracts for the supply of goods will be procured under ICB except for the
provision of off-the-shelf software packages, which would be procured under international shopping for a
maximum amount of US$100,000 per contract with an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000.
Contracts for customs information system improvements will be carried out under the Intemational
Competitive Bidding method (ICB) as a Supply and Installation for Information Systems (two-stage
bidding).
Prior and Post Review by the IBRD for Goods and Works Contracts. All IBRD financed goods and
works contracts under ICB will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines.
Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firms for the supervision of works will be
carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines. Exception to using the QCBS method will apply to financial audits (Least Cost Selection) for an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$120,000. Consultant firms or individual selected based on
Qualifications (CQ) or as individual consultants (Section V) respectively, will be hired to provide support to
the PIT for the establishment26 of the FMS (US$20,000), for procurement matters when needed, for the
supervision of the information technology component and for an exchange program to improve the
information system. The aggregated amount of these contracts will not exceed US$300,000.
Prior and post Review by the IBRD for Consultants' Contracts. All consultant contracts expected to cost
above the equivalent of $100,000 per contract with firms and $50,000 per contract with individuals will be
subject to prior review by the IBRD. Other contracts competitively awarded and not subject to prior review
26 This contract will be awarded as an extension of the contract for the FMS under the TAL 11 Bank project.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
will be subject to post review. All contracts not awarded through competition and all terms of reference
(TOR) will be subject to prior review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions. The MOF and IBRD
agreed during negotiations on the final procurement plan (Table A2). This timetable will be used as a basis
for monitoring of procurement processing. In particular, the following advance procurement actions have
been identified and are hereby proposed to the CDRC as critical milestones so that main contracts can be
signed soon after Loan effectiveness: (a) submit draft Specific Procurement Notice for the construction
works, provision of goods by October 15, 2000; (b) submit Terms of Reference, draft model contract for
consulting services for the information technology component by October 15, 2000; and (c) submit draft
bidding documents for information technology by December 1, 2000. All notices to be published in the UTN
Development Business should be submitted to IDA at least 20 days prior to publication.
Disbursement
Disbursement. Disbursements against the categories described in the table 6.C would be made upon receipt
by IBRD of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US$1.0 million and
US$100,000 for works and goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, US$50,000 for individual consultants
and operating costs, which would be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and made available to IBRD during
supervision. The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the
IBRD Loan account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account.
Retroactive financing for a total amount of up to US$200,000 could be used under Category 3. It would
cover the establishment of the Financial Management System (US$20,000), part of the software component
of the information system (up to US$150,000), and outside procurement support (up to US$30,000).
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the
share of expenditures by the Bank. The aggregate Authorized Allocation for this special account would be
EUR530,000, representing about four months of average expenditures made through the Special Account.
During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to an
aggregate of EUR265,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have reached the
level of EUR1 .1 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the aggregate Authorized Allocation of
EUR530,000 by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow standard Bank
procedures as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special
Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all replenishment requests.
Project Accounting and Financial Management. A financial management system (FMS) including
accounting, financial reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing, and proper internal control systems has been
established and meets the minimum Bank financial management requirements. The Bank has reviewed the
FMS and prepared a report identifying weaknesses and proposing remedial actions to enhance the system
and enable the development of appropriate project management reports in view of the transition to PMR-
based disbursements. The Bank has defined a time-bound action plan to specify the steps necessary for: (i)
loan effectiveness and (ii) further strengthening of procedures and staff development during implementation.
The FMS is compatible with OP/BP 10.02 and with the Project Financial Management Manual, published
by the Bank. The development of the FMS will be monitored by the Bank before effectiveness, during the
first supervision mission and throughout project implementation.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
The PIT includes for financial management purpose the members of another project implementation unit.
This unit, within the ministry of Finance handles four other World Bank projects using its three staff. The
Bank has reviewed the capacity of this unit to effectively provide the required financial management
functions for the TTFSE. The PIT will have accounts audited every fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Standards of Auditing issued by the International
Federation of Accountants and Bank guidelines. The reports of such audits will be submitted to the Bank no
later than six months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. The PIT will also maintain all
documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in accordance with sound
accounting practices.
Accounting and Auditing. An independent auditor acceptable to IBRD would conduct an annual audit of
the project accounts in accordance with International Auditing Standards. Terms of reference for the annual
audits of the project accounts were agreed upon at negotiations. Certified copies of these audits would be
submitted to IBRD within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. Certified copies of the
auditors' report would be retained by PIT for subsequent review by IBRD missions.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
International  Shopping
Competitive
Bidding       Other      N.B.F.   Total
A. Civil Works                            11.3            -        -    11.3
(6.8)           -             (6.8)
B. Equipment& Goods                        7.6          0.3        -      7.9
(6.2)        (0.2)            (6.5)
C. Consultant Services & Engineering         -          0.6       1.9     2.5
(0.5)       -   (0.5)
D. Training                                  -          0.1        -      0.1
(0.1)       -   (0.1)
E. Operating Costs and Front-End Fee         -          0.1      0.2      0.3
(0. 1)      -   (0.1)
Total                                     18.9           1.1      2.1    22.1
(13.0)        (0.9)       -  (13.9)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement,
and any other miscellaneous items).
Consultant Services and Engineering, Training -other: See Table 6 Al and A2



Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                          Selection Method                            Total Cost
Expenditure                                                                           (including
Category                                                                          contingencies)
QCBS    QBS        SFB       LCS       CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                0.2                         0.1      0.06    0.0227     2.1          2.5
(0.2)                       (0.1)    (0.06)   (0.02)                 (0.4)
B. Individuals                                                        0.228                  0.2
~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~~(0.2)  (0.2)
0.2                         0.1      0.06      0.2      2.1          2.7
Total                  (0.2)                       (0.1)    (0.06)    (0.2)                 (0.6)
Due to rounding the figures may not add up.
Note:  QCBS          Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS =         Quality-based Selection
SFB =         Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS           Least-Cost Selection
CQ  =         Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =       Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F.        Not Bank-financed.
27 Extension of a contract for the Financial Management System (US$20,000).
28 Cover the procurement support during the first year notably for the information system component, other
support/training to the PIT over the life of the project and information technology training.



Table A2: Procurement Plan
Information           G         2     3.5         ICB           No         Draft Bidding documents to    1. Submit SPN/rnvitation fortBid:             SeptemberJ15, 2001    October 1S,
Systems                                                                    IBRD by December 1, 2000        January 1, 2001                                                   2002
Equipment29 -                                                                                2. Open I" stage bid: March 1, 2001
Equipmentfi7 -                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3. Open 2nd stage bid: June 1, 2001
Supply and Install                                                                                       4. Bid evaluation report to Bank:
Contracts #1 and 2                                                                                         August 15, 2001
Standard Office       G         2     0.15        1S                       Draft bidding documents to    1. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms:    JulySe, 2001          September 15,
Software Package                                                          IBRD by January 15, 2001         February 15, 2001                                                 2001
2. Opening March 15, 2001
3. Eval. & Recom. April 15, 2001
G         2     0.15        IS                      Draft bidding documents to    1. nvite Proposalfrom shortlisted firms:       September 1, 2001     December 35,
IBRD by April 1, 2001           May 1, 2001                                                       2001
2. Opening June 1, 2001
3. Eval. & Recom. July I, 2001
Information           G         2     4.1         ICB           No         Draftlbidding documents to    l. Submit SPN/lnvitation for Bid:             DecemberlS, 2001      December 30,
Systems Supply                                                            IBRD by March 1,2001             April 1, 2001                                                     2002
and Install                                                                                              2. Open I" stage bid: June 1, 2001
contracts #3 and 4                                                                                       3. Open 2d stage bid: September 1,2001
4. Bid evaluation report to Bank:
November 15, 2001
Information           CS        4     0.06        CQ/IC                    TOR by November 30, 2000      1. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms January   June 1, 2001    June 30, 2002
Systems Training                                                                                         30, 2001
2. Evaluation and Recommendation
April 15, 2001
Border crossing       CW        I     Total :9.8   ICB          No         Draft bidding docs to IBRD    1. Invitation December l, 2000                May 1,2001            November 1,
improvements:                         Lot 1 :2.4                             October 15, 2000            2. Opening March 1, 2001                                            2002
Lot 2: 1.9                                                        3. Eval. & Recom. April 1, 2001
Lot 3:2.4
Lot 4: 3.1
Buildings at          CW        1      1.5        ICB           No         Draft bidding docs to IBRD    1. Invitation February 1, 2001                June 1, 2001          June 1, 2002
borders:                                                                     December 15, 2000           2. Opening April 1, 2001
3. Eval. & Recom. May 15, 2001
-o
as>
oc r
29 O
29 One contract for computer hardware (servers, PCs..) and one contract for telecomrnunications.



Supervision  IT      CS        3      0.1        CQ/IC                   N/A                                                                                              June 15, 2001
Supervision CW       CS         1     0.2         QCBS                    Draft RFP,                   1. Invite Proposal from shorilisted firms     February 15, 2001    August 15,
October 15, 2000             November 15, 2000                                                  2002
2. Evaluation and Recommendation
Januaiy 15, 2000
PIT support30        CS        5      0.1         CQ/IC                  N/A
Auditor3l            CS         I     0.1         LCS          No         RFP by July31, 2000          1. Invite Proposal from shortlisted firms August    November 15,2000   September 30,
31, 2000                                                           2004
2. Eval. & Recom. October 15, 2000
Total                                 19.9
30 These contracts will be awarded during the project implementation as needs for support or training arise and will include the contract for the Financial Management System.
(US$20,000).
31 These services will be an extension of the auditing services under the Technical Support project to the Ministry of Finance.
rs
-.0 O



Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Prior Review /
Estimated Total
Expenditure         Contract Value          Procurement         Value Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method              Prior Review
US $
1. Works
>=1,000,000               ICB           All /US$11.3 million
2. Goods                   >=100,000                ICB            All / US$7.6 million
<=100,000                 IS            All / US$0.3 million
<=50,000                NS
3. Services
Firms                      >=100,000               QCBS               US$0.2 million
<=100,000           LCS (auditors)
Individuals                 <=50,000              Section V
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$19.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed Once every six months
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review audits):
N. A. : Not Applicable since there are no contracts of this kind.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Annex 6 - Table Bi:
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
The Government of Croatia has many years of experience in implementing Bank--financed projects. It has an average
performance for procurement of Works, Goods, and Services.
A Country Procurement Assessment Report was prepared in 1999. It  Are the bidding documents for the procurement
has been discussed and finalized with the Government.         actions for the first year ready by negotiations:
No
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of  Date ofpublication of  Indicate if there is        Domestic    Domestic Preference
Project Launch     General Procurement   procurement subject to       Preference  for Works, if
Workshop:         Notice:                mandatory SPN in            for Goods:  applicable:
Development Business:                    No
Sept. 30, 2000    June 30, 2000          Yes                          N.A.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing for a total amount of up to  Advance Procurement:
US$200,000 could be used for the establishment of the Financial Management  No
System (US$20,000), for the financing of the software component of the
information system (up to US$150,000) and for outside procurement support
(up to US$30,000).
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The PIT under the Customs Administration will oversee all procurement activities under the project and will ensure
procurement is done in accordance with World Bank procedures with support of external consultants as needs arise.
TOR for all consultant services will be submitted for no-objections to the Bank. The PIT will report on procurement
matters in its Quarterly Progress Reports ( See C: 4 e).
Cofinancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing:
There will be no joint-financing. For parallel financing, donor procurement procedures will be used.
|Section 4: Procurement StaMfng
|Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
|Name: Lucas Janssens      Extension: 2443037
Country Office will provide back-up on procurement issues to project team and will be assisted in that regard by
procurement advisors.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Loan                   Disbursement
Amount
(in Euro)                     %
1. Civil Works                      6,560,000                   60%
2. Goods, including supply and install    6,070,000     100% foreign, 100% ex-
contracts                                               factory and 85% of other
local expenditures
3. Consultanfs services including
auditing and training services        540,000                   100%
4. Front-end fee                      148,000
5. Unallocated                      1,482,000
Total                                 14,800,000






Annex 7
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                          Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         14 months
First Bank mission (identification)                03/25/1999            03/25/1999
Negotiations                                       07/10/2000            07/10/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      12/01/2000
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, Croatian Customs Administration and Bank Team
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Graham Smith                                 Program Team Leader
Gerald Ollivier                              Task Team Leader - Transport Specialist
Michel Zarnowiecki                           Senior Customs Specialist
Vladimir Skendrovic                          Senior Project Officer
Lucas Janssens                               Procurement Accredited Specialist
Craig Neal                                  IT Procurement Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu                        Financial Management Specialist
Kenneth Gwilliam                             Peer Reviewer
James Walsh                                  Peer Reviewer
Pedro Taborga                                Sr. Economist
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Philip Moeller                               Participation/environmental Specialist
Ivan Taborsky                                Customs Specialist
Preparation Assistance: Magdalena Kusemileva, Marie Laygo, Dammika Somasundaram



Annex 8
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan (as negotiated)
B. Bank Staff-Mission Assessments
* Management Information System
* Trade Facilitation Component
* Customs Institutional Reform
* Technical paper regarding the selection of border crossings
* Stakeholder surveys.
C. Other
* "The welfare implications of transport improvements in the presence of market
failure" by Anthony Venables and Michael Gariorek.
* Minutes and Recommendations of Quality Evaluation Review (QER).
* CDRC Customs Reform Strategy
3 CRDC Information System Strategy



Annex 9
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Operations Portfolio
(as of June 30, 2000)
Difference Between
Board                                                     Last PSR                                                         Expected and Actual
Date                                                 Supervision Rating              Original Amount in USS Millions        Disbursements'
Fiscal                                           DvlpetIReetto
Year  Active Projects                           Dblectlvles      Proaress          IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
1995    P008329      HIGHWAY SECTOR                    S              S             80.00           0          0      2.90       1.30         0
1996    P008335      FARMER SUPPORT SERV               S              S             17.00           0          0      9.66       7 96         0
1997    P008334      COASTAL FOREST RECON              S              S             42.00           0          0     11.66       966          0
1997    P008327      EFSAL                             S              U             95.00           0          0     38.44      49 01     49.01
1997    P044457      EMGTRANS/MINECLR                  S              S            102.00           0          0     18.66     39.15          0
1998    P048983      EAST SLAVONIA RECON               S              S             40.60           0          0     30.92      11.97         0
1998    P040139    INVESTMENT RECOVERY                 S              U             30.00           0          0      15.91     19.76         0
1998    P043444      MUNICIP ENVIRONM INFRA            S              S             36.30           0          0     28.82      4.06          0
1999    P039161      RAILWAY MOD. & RESTR.             U              U            101.02           0          0     72.29      16.65         0
1999    P057767      TA INST REG REF PSD               S              S              7.30           0          0      6.49      -0.31         0
2000    P051273      HEALTH SYSTEM                     S              S             29.00           0          0     28.51      -0.49         0
TOTAL                                                         580.22                           264.26    158.72
a) Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b) The rating covers the period of the last 6 months (S=satisfactory, U=unsatisfactory).
c) The number includes closed projects in the FR of Yugoslavia assigned to Croatia as successor state.
Croatia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 06/30/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                                  Disbursed
FY Appro Company     Loan                        Equity     -Quasi            Partic      Loan        Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998        1998                        3.37             0              0           0         2.5          0         0         0
1973/81/9:Belisce                           12.03          6.01             0         8.82       12 03       6.01        0       8 82
1999 Bjelovarska                        15.06            0              0           0        8.68          0         0         0
1999 Croatia Capital                       0             5              0           0           0        1.04        0         0
1997 Koromacno                           8.04            0              0           0        8.04          0         0         0
T.S BankaDE                           0           2.56              0          0           0        2.56         0         0
2000 ViktorLenac                           6            19             4.2          9           0         1.9       3.7        0
Total Portfolio                         44.5          15.47            4.2      17.82       31.25       11.51       3.7      882
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan                       Equity        Quasi           Partic
2000 RZB Pension                           0          3000               0          0
Total Pending
Commitment:                               0          3000              0           0






Annex 10
Page I of 3
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
Overview
1.   The review of project components during the Environmental and Social Consultation
Meeting of January 25, 1999 indicated that the project is unlikely to have significant adverse
environmental impacts. The project was accordingly confirmed as Category B. To prevent,
minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigation measures have been prepared. This EMP is an attachment of
the Project Implementation Plan.
Minimization of Negative Impact
2.   The major concerns about possible negative site specific impacts associated with border
crossings relate to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of
disinfectants and spills of oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site
disruptions caused by upgrades or relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings,
parking/waiting areas, and access roads.
3.   The objective of the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project
to reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the simplification of
paperwork and reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time and
vehicle emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side waste and garbage will
also be reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical investment, largely limited to
the improvement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions
included in the EMP (See Exhibit I) to further minimize potentially negative impact and promote
institutional development include:
*  Liaison with Environmental Authorities
*  Training and Sensitization
*  Site Certification
*  Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
*  Provisions in Construction Contracts
Liaison with Environmental Authorities
4.   Contacts between the CDRC and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Zoning
(MEPZ) need to be regularized. This will be affected through the establishment of an
environmental officer in the CDRC, who with the assistance of the PIT will be responsible for
liaison, monitoring and reporting. As the project progresses the environmental officer should take
increased responsibility for these functions. Eventually the PIT would serve primarily as a back-
up and provide input for the environmental reporting process. Environmental issues will be
included in the public information program to be provided by the CDRC.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Training and Sensitization
5.   The environmental officer in conjunction with the MEPZ will assist the training consultant
in the design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the customs service
relating to the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures and
guidelines based on the national environmental regulations will be developed. In coordination
with the appropriate outside ministries and agencies such specialized training as veterinary
inspection will be designed.
Site Certification
6.  In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all
stations, the environmental officer jointly with a representative of the MEPZ will inspect border
crossings. On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a letter of
certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will be given to assure correction
procedures relating to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and chemicals at the
sanitary and disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste materials including hazardous materials
and garbage.
Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
7.   The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular
attention will be given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will
consult with the MEPZ to ensure progressive application of appropriate standards. Progress in
this area will be regularly reported to the PIT and included in reports to the IBRD.
8.   The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international
conventions and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant would be the
regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol
of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the International trade in Endangered Species (CITES);
(iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special
Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) Basel Convention
on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May
1992.
Provisions in Construction Contracts
9.   As required by the national environmental regulations, environmental assessments will be
prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and mitigation measures for any
new major construction projects. Acceptance and payment by the PIT would be dependent upon
the presentation of such details and presentation of associated environmental clearances. All
contracts would contain clauses requiring the minimization of noise and dust during construction.
10.  Contract specifications should require bridge and station construction methods and
procedures to comply with national laws and regulations specifying environmental and
navigational limitations with respect to navigable streams. Croatia environmental laws and
permit requirements are considered to be consistent with EU standards and are acceptable to the
Bank for the construction activities associated with this project.



Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Exhibit 1
Liaison with          The  CDRC  has designated  an  environmental officer who  in
Environmental         collaboration with the PIT will be responsible for: (i) liaison with
Authorities           environmental officials of the MEPZ; (ii) the review and monitoring of
the EMP; (iii) the provision of periodic status reports to the PIT; (iv)
consultations with such interested parties as NGOs; and (iv) the
provision of support for supervision missions. The government will
assure that the environmental officer has access to information relevant
to the project and environmental compliance.
Training and          The CDRC in conjunction with environmental officials of the MEPZ
Sensitization         will provide training and sensitization of staff at each border crossing.
Standard procedures will be specified. Special training will be offered
for veterinary inspection.
Certification of      The MEPZ jointly with the environmental officer of the CDRC will
Acceptable Practice at  inspect border crossing for certification of the acceptability of practices
Border Crossings      and minimization of environmental impact at all stations. Particular
attention will be given to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting
materials and chemicals at the disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste
materials including hazardous materials and garbage.
Harmonization of      One of the goals of the project is to assist hannonization with EU and
Standards             international standards. The environmental officer will consult with the
MEPZ periodically on progress and provide progress reports to the PIT.
The environmental officer will ensure compliance with evolving
regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction          (i) Designs for new construction or remodeling will include plans for
the minimization of negative impacts.
(ii) Contract Documents will contain clauses requiring minimization of
noise, dust, and waste disposal during construction.
(ii) All works will comply with local environmental regulations.






Annex I I
Page I of 8
Republic of Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Croatian Reform Strategy
PART I - MISSION
The customs function in Croatia is administered by the Head Office of the Croatian Customs
Administration (CDRC). Management functions are delegated to the level of 10 Customs Houses
organized along the lines of economic regions that operate 159 customs offices. The CDRC
employs about 2,900 staff of various educational and academic profiles.
In the functioning of the CDRC, emphasis is put on the fiscal element for it significantly
participates in total budget revenue collection both through regular collection of budget revenue
and through seizure and penalties. The CDRC's work constitutes an important factor for
economic stability both through its direct (protection function, collection of revenue, etc.) and
indirect impact (trade facilitation, influence on tourist trade, etc.).
FUNCTIONS AND TASKS
* To protect the society by enforcing constraints and prohibition on imports, exports and
transit.
- Continuously to provide support to economic development by maintaining optimal balance
between trade and an efficient application of domestic regulations.
- To collect customs duties and other revenues under the law.
* To combat all types of customs fraud (smuggling, etc.)
* To collect and analyze statistics on international trade.
* To propose to the Government initiatives and measures within its remit.
* To carry out its tasks in a rational and effective manner.
GOALS
To advance our activities to the most effective level possible, to become a high quality service of
both the state administration and the overall economy and create within its area of responsibility
all the necessary conditions for accession to European and global integration processes.
The basis for the foregoing will be created by a quality implementation of the Customs Reform
and Modernization Program (CRMP) which has been drafted in keeping with European
Commission recommendations by whom it has also been verified as a framework for action.
CRMP has been adopted at Government level and requires action to be taken in the following 14
fields of customs operations:



Annex I I
Page 2 of 8
* legislation
* organization and management
* personnel administration
* customs ethics
* training
* revenue collection
* border and inland control
* smuggling investigation and control
* customs laboratory
* infrastructure and equipment
* trade facilitation
* transit and flow of goods
* computerization
* communications
Such tasks that define the future development of our service can be performed only by applying
high standards of law enforcement, always bearing in mind the needs of legal businesses as the
pillar of society's development. What needs to be developed and constantly borne in mind are the
basic principles of our service:
. professionalism
* ethics
. integrity
* transparency
* impartiality
* honesty
* readiness to adopt best practices of others
* provision of assistance
By insisting on these we will take the path towards a stable civil service.
OBSTACLES
To be able to reach the goals, we must agree that the CRMP is viable and universally accepted as
the basis for action in the further development and that as such it enjoys political support at the
highest level.
The Program embraces the basic Stability Pact and SECI requirements:
* trade facilitation
* combating crime, and awards them top priority in development.
None of the activities under the CRMP may jeopardize regular CDRC activities in respect to
supervision and especially to budget revenue collection.
Aggravating circumstances that may influence the pace of CRMP implementation are, inter alia,
the following:



Annex I 1
Page 3 of 8
* Need for constant political support to reform and modernization in terms of provision of
human and material resources.
* Coordination with other departments within the MoF and other agencies (Interior, Maritime
Affairs, Transport and Telecommunications, Foreign Affairs, Agriculture and Forestry,
Croatian Chamber of Commerce).
* Problems related to the application of the new Customs Code and regulations. Problems are
particularly apparent in the unacceptably poor knowledge among customs officers and other
parties to the process (brokers, importers, exporters, carriers, etc.).
* Insufficiently developed CDRC and customs service infrastructure as a whole.
* Poor horizontal and vertical communication, lack of transparency of the CDRC and non-
existent consultations with major drivers of Croatia's economy.
* Underdeveloped internal and external control component in the CDRC requires an expansion
of customs officers' powers and a completely new mode of conduct, particularly in
combating corruption and customs fraud.
. Less than sufficient motivation level among customs officers resulting from salary,
equipment, workplace environment, housing policy, interpersonal relations and the CDRC's
current social status.
* Distorted image of the CDRC and its activities that certain quarters systematically spread
among the public.
- Lack of efficient consultation with parties to customs procedures aimed at better application
of laws and trade facilitation.
* Unstable customs systems in the neighboring countries (BiH, YUG) and lack of quality co-
operation substantially make our work more difficult (customs fraud in transit traffic, etc.)
Throughout the entire area of CDRC operations the CRMP will highlight only those goals which
need to be the focus of attention in the forthcoming period. Through cooperation and joint
acceptance of the DEVELOPMENT VISION these goals can be attained and further improved.
IT IS OF PARAMOUNT IMPORTANCE THAT THE CRMP NOT BECOME OWNED
BY ONLY ONE GROUP OF PEOPLE, but be disseminated to as wide a circle of people as
possible to enable them to offer comments and update or revise the Program.
PART II - CDRC GOALS
I.    Development of a legislative framework in line with EU legislation.
The CDRC must have the same powers as those wielded by EU customs authorities and
operate within a legislative framework fully harmonized with EU legislation.
II.    Effective application of customs regulation, constant efforts at attaining highest quality
customs controls and effective and rational operations.



Annex 11
Page 4 of 8
III.    Development and strengthening of management capabilities.
CDRC activities must be carried out in a consistent and synchronized manner throughout
the territory covered by the CDRC.
IV.   Development of relations with other organizations in the country - with the public,
associations, companies, etc.
Through interaction with other services, the public, companies and associations, the
CDRC enhances its capability to perform its tasks.
V.    Intensification of relations with international organizations, thus creating the basis for
cooperation with foreign partners in terms of both operational activities and integration
processes.
Objectives
1/1    To encourage amendments to legal regulations aimed at harmonizing CDRC powers with
those of other customs authorities within the EU.
I / 2   To identify shortcomings in the existing regulations and ensure their further
development;
1/ 3   To prepare operating instructions in accordance with legal requirements.
11 / I  To further develop a customs IT system.
II / 2  To prepare for the implementation of a new Customs Tariff Act, and to implement
combined nomenclature;
II / 3  To establish a customs intelligence system and an anti-smuggling system.
11 / 4  To establish an integral corruption combat system.
11 / 5  To prepare a training plan for newly employed officers and an on-going training process
for all employees.
III / I To prepare a staff formation and development strategy based on new legal regulations.
III / 2  To prepare an administrative structure enhancement program for the implementation of
customs regulations.
IV / I To enhance interaction and mutual trust between the CDRC and companies.
IV / 2 To develop efficient coordination with other services.
IV / 3 To improve public communication and feedback.
V / I  To intensify cooperation between the CDRC and international organizations.



Annex I1
Page 5 of 8
PART III - DEVELOPMENT PLAN
cf. Obiective I / 1
1. To establish a working group at the Head Office and, on the basis of the best experiences of
developed administrations, prepare a draft Customs Administration Act - MAY 2000 (done)
2. To prepare a draft Safety at Work Manual pursuant to Article 18 of the Safety at Work Act -
DECEMBER 2000.
3. Launch initiatives with the competent ministries to draft the following new legislation:
*  Illegal Drugs Control Act          MAY 2000 (done)
*  Personal Data Protection Act        JULY 2000 (done)
cf. Obiective 1 / 2
To authorize the competent departments of different customs houses to monitor changes in legal
regulations on an on-going basis and prepare proposals for amendments to the national legal
framework, in particular:
* Free Zones Act
* Foreign Exchange System Act
* Civil Servants and Employees Act
* Act on the Organization and Jurisdiction of Ministries and Government Authorities
* Trade Act
* Customs Brokerage Act
* Stamp Duties Act
To be processed by SEPTEMBER 2000 (done).
ef. Obiective 1 / 3
1. In consultation with the European Commission, to seek and implement co-operation with a
view to preparing quality instructions for the implementation of the new Customs Code and
relevant by-laws. - JANUARY 2001
2. To prepare grounds for the implementation of the new Customs Tariff Act and deliver
Customs Tariff Comments to Operational Units. - JULY 2000
3. To prepare operating instructions stemming from the new legislation:
* customs valuation - JANUARY 2001
* inward processing - JULY 2000
* simplified procedure - DECEMBER 2000
Operating instructions should be clear and enforceable.



Annex 1 
Page 6 of 8
cf. Obiective II / 1
1. To prepare a status report on the implementation of the customs IT system (CIS), development
level and technical assistance requirements. The requirements should be specified in the context
of further development of the World Bank project. - 25. MAY (done)
2. To prepare a customs IT system (CIS) development strategy with emphasis on EDI. - 25.
MAY (done)
3. To ask GZAOP (City EDP Institute) to verify CIS data protection and the prevention of
unauthorized break-ins. - JUNE 2000 (done)
4. To support and complete the CIS to ensure the implementation of the CO Macelj and CO
Jankomir pilot project. - MAY 2000
5. To commence preparations for the risk assessment project. - DECEMBER 2000
6. To prepare grounds for a controlled linkage of interested government authorities to the CIS
(Ministry of the Interior, Tax Administration, etc.) - JUNE 2000
cf. Obiective 11 / 2
1. To prepare the dissemination of the Customs Tariff Act and Customs Tariff Comments as
soon as possible after the adoption thereof.
2. To organize, within the competent department, the preparation of operating instructions in the
light of the shift to the combined customs nomenclature. OCTOBER 2001
cf. Objective 11 / 3
l. To establish Sector for audit, customs supervision and investigations - MAY 2000 (done)
2. Within the aforementioned department, to develop dedicated customs intelligence service
teams. - UPON THE ADOPTION OF THE CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION ACT
3. To prepare proposals for information exchange with other law enforcement departments. -
DECEMBER 2000
4. To shift towards a selective passenger and luggage control. -2001
5. To strengthen the role of post-clearance inspection. - UPON THE ADOPTION OF THE
CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION ACT
cf. Obiective II / 4
I. On the CDRC level, to prepare a corruption combat plan and methodology. - DECEMBER
2000
2. To prepare a Code of Conduct for Customs Officers. - DECEMBER 2000



Annex I I
Page 7 of 8
3. To examine efforts made in this field elsewhere in the world.
cf Obiective I / 5
1. To prepare a plans for the training of customs officers - BY THE END OF EACH
CALENDAR YEAR
2. To develop international co-operation in staff training.
3. To develop cooperation with institutions of higher education and with the professional
associations - 2001.
4. To motivate foreign language knowledge and study.
5. Wherever possible, to commence with the preparation of manuals.
cf. Objective III /1
1. To redefine the personnel selection strategy. - OCTOBER 2000
2. To review job descriptions for each position in accordance with the law, and to prepare a
career advancement plan proposal. - IMMEDIATELY UPON THE ADOPTION OF THE
CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION ACT AND THE INTERNAL ORGANISATION OF THE
MINISTRY OF FINANCE DECISION
3. To prepare a proposal for regulations ensuring appropriate staff motivation. - OCTOBER
2000 (done)
cf. Obiective III / 2
1. To prepare a system for the review of inconsistencies between administrative bodies and their
headcount, as well as tasks, responsibilities and functions within the CDRC. - 2001
2. To analyze horizontal and vertical links between different administration units. -
NOVEMBER 2000
cf. Obiective IV / 1
1. To prepare detailed instructions for companies.
2. To develop external and internal communication - DECEMBER 2000.
3. To prepare a draft for the standardized MoU with companies. - DECEMBER 2000
4. Written verification of pilot projects in keeping with new procedures, organization of work, as
well as systematic monitoring of same. -
Inland terminal pilot sites - MAY 2000
Border crossing pilot sites - DECEMBER 2000



Annex 11
Page 8 of 8
cf. Obiective IV / 2
1. To prepare a proposal for the institutionalization of cooperation with other services with a
view to improving the IT environment. - NOVEMBER 2000 (done)
2. To cooperate with other competent government authorities in their efforts to restructure and
support economic growth.
3. Preparation of proposals for the harmonization of customs regulations with regulations
that pertain to other fields, but have an impact on the performance of customs services.
4. To prepare a MoU's with traders and transporters. - DECEMBER 2000
cf. Obiective IV / 3
1. To prepare a targeted public relations and awareness campaign to explain the CDRC's role
and functioning. - NOVEMBER 2000 (done)
2. To make consistent efforts to ensure the CDRC's transparency and disseminate information
on the results of its activities.
cf. Obiective V / 1
1. To prepare a program providing for a more active cooperation with the World Customs
Organization (WCO). - 2001
2. To consult with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the possibility of appointing a customs attache
at Croatia's Embassy in Brussels, so as to ensure better links with the WCO - JUNE 2001.
3. To develop systematically the method of exchanging of the best practices with the EC member
states.
4. To participate in international exchange and technical cooperation programs.
TASK FORCE CONCLUSION
On the basis of the foregoing goals and deadlines, it is necessary to entrust work groups within
the competent departments with the task of preparing written studies of the goals.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Croatia at a glance                                                             8/23/00
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle       _
Croai       Asia  Income        Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (00lions)                        435       475       573                 Life expectancy
GNP per capi (Atlas method, US$)                    4,490     2.150     4,900
GNP (Atlas methd, USS bllons)                        20.2     1,022     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population X)                                        -0.5       O.1       1.4     G                                G
Labor force  J                                        0.0       0,6       2.1     GNP                            primary
Most recet estime (latst yar avalable, 199349)                                    capita              /        enrollment
Poverty ( of populWion below natonalt poverty A)        0
Urban population ( of lotal popwitton)                 58        87        76
Life expectancy at birt (years)                        73        69        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lie birts)                  8        22        27
Child mainrwton (f of cldren under 5)                  ..         8         7               Access to safe water
Access to improved Water source (% of populatIon)      98         ..       78
illiteracy (% oftopulaton age 15)                       ..        3        10
Gross primary enrollment ( otschoot-age poplaton)      86       100       109        -Croatia
Male                                                 S7       101        ,,              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               86        99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1#98       1998      199        -  --  ---"'*  '^ --   ' -'~
Economic ratlos*
GOP (US$ W1iion)                                   ..          20.9      20A
Gross donestic investmenVGDP                  ..       ..      23.2      23.2                     Trade
Exports of goods and sevi;eslGDP               ..      ..      40,0      40.7
Gross domestic savings/GODP                    ..      ..      14.2      15.8
Gross natinal savings/GDP                     ..       ..      16.7      16.6
Current aCcount balance/GDP                   ,. ..             7.4   ^ 7.2       Domesb'c .
Interest payments/GDP                   .. ..                   1.7       2.1                                 Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..      ..      38.6      40.2      Savigs
Tota) det service/exports                     ,.       ..      11.4      16.1
Present value of debtWGOP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99     1998       1999   1999.03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                          0.2      2.5      -0.3                   -Croatia
GNP per capita                               0.4      3.5      -1.3         .               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         .        - ..   6.9      -0.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(%6 of GDP)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       8.9       8.6    40
Industry                                      ..       ..      32.4      32.0    20
Manufacturing                               ..       ..       20.8      20.5
Services                                       ..      ..      58.7      59.4      0
Private consumption                           ..       ..      59.6      57.4    .201
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..      26.2      26.8              -GDI            *  GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..      49.0      48.1
(average annual growth)                  1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..    -2.5        3.6       1.7    30
25
Industry                                             -3.8       1.5      -0.8    20
Manufacturing                                ..    -4.9        2.7      0.1    is
Services                                       ..     2.0       3.6      -0.1    1s
5
Private consumption                           ..       ..       1.2      -3.0     o
General government consumption                ..       ..       0.9      -0.1     -      94   95   5e   97
Gross domestic investment                     ..       ..    -13.8       -1.7
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..       4.6      -39             -     Exports    eImports
Gross national product                        ..      0.1       1.8      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1979     1989       1398      1939      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            2,000
Consumer prices                                                    57        4 2     1 500
Implicit GDP deflator                                              9.0       4.0    1,D0
Government fnnance                                                                     so 
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o.                       0 _    p    p  O
Current revenue                                                    50.6     48.3               94   es   96   97   go   99
Current budget balance                                             6.2        1.5                    GDP deflator    eCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ,       ,,        0.5      -2.5
TRADE
(US$ million1s)                                        1989       1338      1399       Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                              4,541     4,280      10,0oo
Capital goods                                                    231       242
Chemicals                                                        264       332
Manufactures                                                     584       S72       6,o*                        -
Total imports (ci)                                               8,383     7,777      4,00 
Food                                                             675       560
Fuel and energy                                                  sea       859       2000
Capital goods                                                   2,952     2,706        o
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       ..         ..        ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..        ..         ..        ..                  * Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..        .
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1379     1989       1338      1339      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                    8,569     8,079
Imports of goods and services                                   10,663     9,701
Resource balance                                                 -2,094    -1,622      2j.
Net income                                                        -164      -346
Net current transfers                                              708       so:       4
Current account balance                                         -1,550    -1,469      4 
Financing items (net)                                      ,     1,701     1,897      12
Changes in net reserves                                           -152      -429      1
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                    ..     2,816     3,025
Conversion rate (DEC, loc.alUS$)                          ..        6.6       7.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1973     1983       1938      1939
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             0        0      8,070     8,216
IBRD                                           0        0        356       574                     G 482 A: 574
IDA                                            0        0          0         0                                C:331
Total debt service                               0        0       1,121    1,461                                    D: 30
IBRD                                           0        0         29        41
IDA                                            0        0          9         0                                      E 9r7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                0        0         -9      -130
Official creditors                             0        0        -38       162
Private creditors                              0        0      1,136      -129
Foreign direct investment                                        801     1,304
Portfolio equity                               0        0         15       576             F: 5,501
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0        107       108      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        0         83       241      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        0         30        23      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                       0        0         53       218
Interest payments                              0        0          8        18
Net transfers                                  0        0         45       200
Development Economics                                                                                                   8/23/00
World Bank User



IBRD 31002
10                                                   B
f                 M~~~koI aps-M
,0i                                                                 I ft tr~T' A_-4L
|9 >     4>X1  a<_$    \-- B/alsk ]-~ B~
.0                                           0.1-Nopo-~opst  ~  
Uer,z         r~~~~~~~WA  r'  ska        -
CJT A L Y \  2'  r-  SDoijani ,    : ):    0  t ~~~~~~~~~~~~ t. ~~~~' B UE L G -=R I A-rb  . -PtAi/   II
Tr- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ --
CZ  I                       Gunl                           V Pico  --
FC  O M I I E   L IT A T IN DI N SOTH A S T R L C T U R E   K o ;   j   t ie-9    I k  ' 4 
--MXOR RALODS Gi  reei  >'<<,g t  ,
--0-   PLNQ:IAP     A', t-     ;S dn           G'   9RE 'E  Ct                           -<-4     
-. -   NIERNATONALBOIINOARIES      \                                            rps ro,, 20                  '     > tf  fklnrtVk/f.
DILONEERS






GEI            '      - \_  X     _  L  X ZM-ANY. 4  6g  1 , , * 0 1,'l s~;lr0, 3,'> uMN1 4 *P n : ' L  ) j:,                                                                                IBRD 31069
",'AK P_                                                                              TH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SU-EAST EUROPE REGO
f                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRADE AND TRANSPORT
FACILITATION  IN SOUTHEAST
22                                         ~~~~~~~~~EUROPE PROJECT
$3I0 I- S81                                                             (CROATIA)
$7t,   SzmfI ,!,co C f                                                              M A IN  TRA D E   PA TTERN S
> | &   _  +w,;  \X                                       4+        51J11, mporti X     <                      <   MOVA 0~~~~~~~~~~ S2''6'     IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (I998):
EYOlfTS LJS$ M(iUos$     lMP0RTS (05$ M,l oo-l
OMANIA                                                                                  S npo-
7/ 721 210                                s         E      E   tlof;t4o                                                                                 --INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
np.,l, 'P'05                           45'-~~~~~~,Sode                 ' Woo~Fr@6oy,
'T                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FED REo
$1200             t                                                                                            432
j 2 i L _ <;18 SN2,p o t                                                                                                        MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
'SAtq MARINO                                                                                            ~~                  ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I  GDP PER CAPITA, 1998 (US$)
SAN  iAIN                                                         .+ \              ,J /      ,S4 S2                   r                _--                                                 $2 S000
64000
-   f   vi; . !: z t .,, jz    9  .'7 ,''  1    < ; 1 ,,    >--R-o,or_rFort o                                                                 ,        $.--52000
ITALY~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                           $250                                                       Fop
5eAdrlatic _                                                                                  W , > t BULGARIA
$329 I
1,2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
72 2 -  t S sS O ' 5  1                                                                             E MACEDNIA      .             ANIA    9  0
,   *   \   j.   ,  A  IA  ---  >  X  t .,-- '- S s4<t-8 r30 ;; ;\ HERZEGOVINA 12.3 4.6 2.S 12307                                       HERZEG 
_ -   X  \  ;             '; L 2 Ja "    |                     <               t ,                    0                        \       i: J . _  +  C  ROAT7 A%20 s   4.4   8 a   1290
409   hUSA                                                                                  S                                                                                    \       z        - %. t '    T. Us  532  i  -.  P 'i  .,:    ROMANIA  382   8.  11 8   1390
S2,  $234                                                                                         0         10\       200        300
Aege 12
t \4 +$ GREECE     <              ;          '           ^          >Sea  1
PEPTE,atE2(2



