E-318
Annex 10
Croatia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
Environmental Management Plan
OVERVIEW
I.    The review of project components during the Environmental and Social Consultation
Meeting of January 25, 1999 indicated that the project is unlikely to have significant adverse
environmental impacts. The project was accordingly confirmed as Category B. To prevent,
minimize or mitigate site specific negative impacts, however, this Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and a set of mitigation measures have been prepared. Upon review with the client
government it will be signed as an attachment of the PIP.
MINIMIZATION OF NEGATIVE IMPACT
2. The major concerns about possible negative site specific impacts associated with border
crossings relate to: (i) emissions from vehicles waiting for customs clearances; (ii) drainage of
disiinfectants and spills of oils and fuel; (iii) waste disposal and loose garbage; and (iv) site
disruptions caused by upgrades or relocations of utilities or such infrastructure as buildings,
parking/waiting areas. and access roads.
3. The objective of the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Project to
reduce constraints on traffic flows at border crossings, including the simplification of paperwork
ancl reduction of processing times, will correspondingly reduce standing time and vehicle
emissions from trucks and other vehicles. Processed and road side waste and garbage will also be
reduced and better managed. The small scale of physical investment, largely limited to the
imlprovement of in-place facilities, offers only limited potential threat. Specific actions included
in the EMP (See Exhibit 1) to further minimize potentially negative impact and promote
institutional development include:
* Liaison with Environmental Authorities
* Training and Sensitization
• Site Certification
* Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
* Provisions in Construction Contracts
Liaison with Environmental Authorities
4. Contacts between the Customs Service (CS) and the environmental agencies (EA) need to be
regularized. This will be affected through the establishment of an environmental officer in the
CS, who with the assistance of the NPIU will be responsible for liaison, monitoring and reporting.
As the project progresses the environmental officer should take increased responsibility for these
functions. Eventually the NPIU would serve primarily as a back-up and provide input for the
environmental reporting process. Environmental issues will be included in the public information
program to be provided by the CS.
Training and Sensitization



5. The environmental officer in conjunction with the EA will assist the training consultant in the
design and provision of training and sensitization for the staff of the customs service relating to
the importance of environmental issues and protection. Standard procedures and guidelines based
on the national environmental regulations will be developed. Standard procedures and guidelines
will be developed. In coordination with the appropriate outside ministries and agencies such
specialized training as veterinary inspection will be designed.
Site Certification
6. In order to promote acceptable practice and minimization of environmental impact at all
stations, the environmental officer jointly with a representative of the EA will inspect border
crossings. On the basis of satisfactory compliance with regulations and procedures a letter of
certification of compliance will be issued. Particular attention will be given to assure correction
procedures relating to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting materials and chemicals at the
sanitary and disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste materials including hazardous materials
and garbage.
Consultations on the Harmonization of Standards
7. The project supports the harmonization of standards with those of the EU. Particular attention
will be given to those relating to hazardous materials. The environmental officer will consult
with the EA to ensure progressive application of appropriate standards. Progress in this area will
be regularly reported to the NPIU and included in reports to the IBRD.
8. The project will enable customs officials to better enforce the terms of international
conventions and agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant would be the
regulations included in such agreements as (i) the European Agreement Concerning the
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol
of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the International trade in Endangered Species (CITES);
(iii) the Convention on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special
Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP) of September 1970; and (iv) Basel Convention on
the Control of Transboundarv Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal of May 1992.
Provisions in Construction Contracts
9. As required by the national environmental regulations, environmental assessments will be
prepared to examine the potential negative environmental impact and mitigation measures for any
new major construction projects. Acceptance and payment by the NPIU would be dependent
upon the presentation of such details and presentation of associated environmental clearances.
All contracts would contain clauses requiring the minimization of noise and dust during
construction.
10. Contract specifications should require bridge and station construction methods and procedures
to comply with national laws and regulations specifying environmental and navigational
limitations with respect to navigable streams. Croatia claims to have environimental laws and
permitting requirements equal to or better than EU standards. The project environmental
management plan will provide for an audit of the content of those laws and permitting procedures
for compliance with international standards, in order to determine the required degree of
sensitizing of operational personnel involved in the project.



Exhibit 1
Liaisoni with         The CS will designate an environmental officer who in collaboration
Environmental         with the NPIU will be responsible for: (i) liaison with environmental
Authorities           officials of the EA, (ii) the review and monitoring of the EMP; (iii) the
provision of periodic status reports to the NPIU; (iv) consultations with
such interested parties as NGOs; and (iv) and the provision of support
for supervision missions. The government will assure tihat the
environmental officer has access to information relev ant to the project
and environmental compliance.
Training and          The CS in conjunction with environmental officials of the EA will
Sensitization         provide training and sensitization of staff at each border crossing.
Standard procedures will be specified. Special training will be offered
for veterinary inspection.
Certification of      The EA jointly with the environmental officer of the CS will inspect
Acceptable Practice at  border crossing for certification of the acceptability of practices and
Border Crossings      minimization of environmental impact at all stations. Particular
attention will be given to (i) the storage and use of disinfecting materials
and chemicals at the disinfecting border stations and (ii) waste materials
j including hazardous materials and garbage.
Harmonization of      One of the goals of the project is to assist harmonization with EU and
Standards             international standards. The environmental officer will consult with the
EA periodically on progress and provide progress reports to the NPIU.
The environmental officer will ensure compliance with evolving
regulatory requirements and conventions.
Construction          -Designs for new construction or remodeling will include plans for the
minimization of negative impacts.
-Contract Documents will contain clauses requiring minimization of
noise, dust, and waste disposal during construction.
-All works will comply with local environmental regulations
[January 2000]



