                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 32340

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-45820)

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$16.1 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                       FOR A

          TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT




                                    November 8, 2005




Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective March 2005)

                  Currency Unit = HRK
                         HRK I = US$ 0.174
                         US$ 1 = HRK 5.747

                        FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 -    December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ASCD                  Automated System for Customs Data
 APL                   Adjustable Program Lending
 BCP                   Border Crossing Point
 CCE                   Croatian Chamber of Economy
 CDRC                  Customs Directorate of the Republic of Croatia
 EU                    European Union
 ECMT                  The European Conference of the Ministers of Transport
 FMS                   Financial Management System
 GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
 IRU                   International Road Transport Union
 LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
 LAN                   Local Area Network
 MEPZ                  Ministry of Environmental Protection and Zoning
 MOE                   Ministry of Economy
 MOF                   Ministry of Finance
 MOU                   Memorandum of Understanding
 PIT                   Project Implementation Team
 RSC                   Regional Steering Committee
 SAD                   Single Administrative Document
 SECI                  Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
 SOE                   Statement of Expenditures
 SME                   Small and Medium Enterprises
 TIR                   Transport International Routier
 TOR                   Terms of Reference
 TTFSE                 Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
 UNCTAD                United Nations Conference for Trade and Development
 UNECE                 United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
 WAN                   Wide Area Network



                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
              Country Director      Anand K. Seth, ECCU5
               Sector Manager       Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Paulus A. Guitink, ECSIE

                                          CROATIA
  TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            34

Map IBRD Nos. 31815R and 31814R

Project ID: P070088                                                  Project Name: TRADE & TRANSPORT
                                                                     FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE
Team Leader: Paulus A. Guitink                                       TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 14, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN                        L/C/TF Number: SCL-45820
                            SOUTHEAST EUROPE
   Country/Department: CROATIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Regional integration (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/20/1999                                     Effective:                           05/02/2001
     Appraisal: 06/08/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 10/26/2000                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF CROATIA/CUSTOMS DIRECTORATE
                      Other Partners:      Ministry of Finance/General Directorate of Customs/General Roads Directorate

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Paulus A. Guitink                              Gerald Ollivier
ICR Primary Author:             Paulus A. Guitink; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives of the US$22.0 million project (Loan US$13.9 million) were to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs to
trade and transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. The project formed part
of a regional program for Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) that aimed to
strengthen and modernize the customs administrations and other border control agencies in Albania, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Romania. Serbia
and Montenegro, first, and then Moldova joined the program later, bringing the total to eight countries. The
Program was the result of a collaborative effort among the Government of Croatia, the Bank, the European
Union (EU) and the United States of America (USA).

The objectives were straightforward, clearly stated, important to the country's economic and social
development, and realistic in scale and scope. These objectives were expected to be achieved by: (i)
supporting Customs reform; (ii) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation between private
and public parties at regional, national and local levels; (iii) disseminating information and providing
training to the private sector; (iv) financing infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; and
(v) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new customs procedures, information technology,
human resource management techniques, supporting infrastructure, and cooperation mechanisms for
agencies at border crossings.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Croatia, discussed by
the Board on June 3, 1999 ( Document No. IDA/ R99-89; IFC/R99-75). It supported CAS's four main
objectives, which underpinned the design and implementation of an export oriented development strategy:
(i) reducing the size of the public sector and increasing efficiency; (ii) improving governance; (iii) creating
conditions for competitive real sector improvements; and (iv) containing poverty. The project was
especially in line with the first three objectives, which aimed to facilitate trade, improve the environment for
the private sector by reducing corruption and increasing transparency and strengthen public finance. These
elements were essential to move to export-oriented development and offer reliable, efficient and competitive
transport connections to serve private sector activities. The combined effect of institutional strengthening
and border crossing improvements was expected to remove some of the existing excess costs linked to trade
and transport, thus providing an environment for faster development of the private sector.

The project design reflected lessons learned from earlier projects in Croatia and other countries. For
example, the Transit Facilitation Project in Macedonia highlighted the need to: (i) tailor the complexity of
the project's design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of implementing
agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to
ease implementation. The Turkish Public Financial Management Project underlined that involvement of
high level political decision-makers was important for achieving the project objectives. Finally, the project
design assumed that the reforms to be undertaken were the beginning of a longer reform process that would
continue beyond the life of the project for a total of eight to ten years.

The project envisioned the following social and economic benefits: (i) Customs reform and transparent
Customs procedures would lead to lower trade and transport costs, which in turn would reduce the prices of
imports for consumers and make exports more competitive; (ii) the reduction in border crossing
delayswould lower the cost of inputs required for local manufacturing, with a corresponding creation of
new jobs; (iii) the TTFSE website would allow access to all information related to border crossings in the
eight countries involved in the program, improving transparency, and reducing opportunities for illegal
payments.



                                                       - 2 -

The project took appropriate measures to mitigate the following four major risk factors that could affect
implementation: (i) Cooperation between border agencies faces inertia and strong resistance:the
high-level coordinator identified for each participating country was given the authority to request meetings
gathering involved agencies; (ii) Regional cooperation issues prevent the achievement of regional goals:
the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), the Regional Steering Committee (RSC), the regional website,
the benchmarking and the willingness to access the EU was expected to create a favorable environment for
proper cooperation; (iii) The willingness to introduce significant changes at pilot sites across agencies is
low:there was a close system of monitoring at pilot sites leading to definition of Action Plan whenever
performance was not at par with targets; and (iv) Coordination by the RSC is not effective and does not
receive participation by donors: donors were an integral part of the project, and the RSC included key
decision-makers of each program country and observers from donor countries.

The project was not very complex in terms of design or implementation. It was very demanding, however,
because: (i) it required a high level of government commitment and good intra-, inter- and cross-border
agency coordination ; (ii) it required coordination with other complementing projects financed by other
donors, including the USA and the EU; (iii) re-orienting Customs to become a more service oriented
organization requires a change in culture which does not happen `overnight'.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of five components, all related to achieving the project's objectives. These were
standard components replicated in all TTFSE projects. The Project Implementation Team (PIT) had
sufficient technical, administrative and financial capacity for successful project management.

Component I: Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures (US$1.4 million: 6.3% of the total
project cost)

This component included: (i) technical services to define and prepare required legal amendments, bylaws
and administrative regulations to fulfill customs functions while facilitating legitimate trade, in cooperation
with other agencies; (ii) technical services to prepare and introduce new customs procedures and
documentation; (iii) technical services to reform the CDRC; (iv) technical services to monitor CDRC
performance; (v) technical services to streamline operations at three border posts and one inland terminal
on a pilot basis; and (vi) training to enhance inter-agency awareness and cooperation. This technical
support would complement ongoing Croatian efforts to implement the CDRC strategy.

Component II: Trade Facilitation Development (US$0.4 million: 1.8% of the total project cost)

Activities under this component consisted of: (i) provision of conventional and distance learning training to
participants in trade, logistics and international freight transport through the Croatian Chamber of
Economy (CCE); (ii) improvement of cooperation between public and private parties using a virtual
forum1o; and (iii) creation of a website and provision of corresponding equipment to support information
availability.




                                                     - 3 -

Component III: Support to CDRC Information System Improvement (US$8.0 million: 36.3% of the
total project cost)

This component consisted of: (i) software and technical services to enable exchange of all information
related to trade (Electronic Data Interchange, electronic signature, digital payment) with other border
inspection agencies, users and neighboring countries; (ii) hardware needed to improve the current
information system (equipment availability and telecommunication) at border crossings and customs
offices; and (iii) a regional experience-sharing program on integrated systems for border agencies to
stimulate regional and interagency cooperation.

Component IV: Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities (US$11.5 million: 52.2% of the total
project cost)

This included improvements of the border crossing facilities at Slavonski Brod, Gunja, Maljevac and
Samac. These border posts are located on the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The component
consisted of paving and service lanes, the provision of building modules and buildings, lighting and
canopies, and drainage and other utilities at the four border stations.

Component V: Program and Project Implementation (US$0.7 million: 3.2% of the total project cost)

The component included the services required to support implementation of the program. At the regional
level these consisted of providing secretariat services to the Regional Steering Committee (RSC) and at the
national level, services included financing auditors and procurement consultants, PIT staff, establishment
of a financial management system, and training the PIT staff.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived.

As mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the
Government priorities, and met the critical needs of Croatia's trade and transport sector. Since the PIT had
the technical capacity, the quality of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's objectives.
During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier projects in
Croatia and other countries were considered and incorporated into the project design.

The project was prepared in collaboration and consultation with exporters; importers; producers and
consumers; road transport operators; freight forwarders/shippers; traders organizations and Cro-PRO (A
professional body bringing together public and private stakeholders, who seek to improve international
trade through the simplification and harmonization of procedures and practices in administration,
commerce and transport,in accordance with UN/CEFACT guidelines); Ministry of Economy; foreign
investors; Ministry of Finance and the CDRC; Ministry of Agriculture as well as sanitary and veterinary
inspection agencies; Ministries of Interior and the Border Police. The European Commission, the US
Government; IRU and FIATA; World Customs Organization (WCO); private companies, and population in



                                                      - 4 -

the vicinity of borders. This kind of extensive stakeholder consultations, and the participatory process in
project preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry.

During project preparation, three project designs were considered:

·      Regional Program of Investment Projects: A regional program of coordinated border crossing
facilitation projects was more advantageous and was selected since it was expected to: (i) generate
substantial benefit spill-over to customs users, producers, and consumers in the trade partner countries of
Croatia; (ii) allow the program countries to share information and introduce more consistent customs and
border control procedures/operations; (iii) be flexible enough to respond to country differences, the pace of
European integration, and the impact of the EU enlargement process; (iv) enable the Bank to coordinate
with    other    donors   that   also   implement     regional   programs;    and   (v)  minimize     project
implementation/supervision costs by near-simultaneous implementation.

·      Separate Individual Projects Carried Out by Each Country: The possibility of preparing
independent projects for each participating country was reviewed and rejected since the achievement of
overall project objectives would be greatly aided by simultaneous standardization and harmonization of
cross-border institutions, operations, and legal frameworks among countries and with the EU.

·      Regional Adaptable Program Lending (APL): A regional or "horizontal" APL, would have enabled
sequential entry of countries in the Program. This horizontal APL, however, was judged to be unfeasible
because: (i) such delegation by the Board was thought unlikely; and (ii) the determination of the future
value of performance indicators to include potential borrowers to the program would have been a delicate
and risky task, given the inherent complexity of the program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The project met its development objectives to: (i) reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport; and (ii) reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings. This is evidenced in the following
discussion of performance indicators.

After about four years of implementation, the project resulted in positive achievements such as: (i)
significant reduction of waiting time at both the borders and inland clearance terminals as a result of
streamlined procedures, introduction of selectivity and risk analysis, and better inter-agency cooperation
and awareness; this is reflected below in the indicators' results; (ii) improved dialogue with Customs
administrations in Southeast Europe (SEE) region, and in particular with neighboring Serbia, Montenegro,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, leading to joint border control teams; (iii) increased revenue collection as shown
by the national performance indicators; (iv) constant monitoring of performance through indicators leading
to the building of a regional data base; and (v) a reduction of smuggling through use of risk analysis and
selective examination and border control equipment. However, full implementation of the risk analysis
strategy was delayed and only started in October 2004. The full roll-out of the strategy is ongoing and it is
expected this will reap further benefits in reduced waiting time and smuggling. Anecdotal evidence has
shown that through supporting electronic data interchange, the project has enhanced processing
transparency, thus reducing opportunities for corruption when transferring information to Customs at
border crossings as well. Further strengthening of the Customs Information system ­ such as
implementation of the 4th IT package foreseen under the project but delayed, as well as enhancing
inter-agency information exchange will further reduce corruption opportunities.



                                                     - 5 -

These indicators enabled the Customs administration to measure its performance over time. Additionally,
and equally important, the performance indicator database enabled comparison of Customs (and border)
performance among neighboring countries against benchmarks; (v) user surveys published for 2002 and
2003 on the TTFSE regional website; (vi) training of SMEs' staff through the Trade Facilitation
component; (vii) development and maintenance of a regional website on trade and transport facilitation (
http://ttfse.org) for the benefit of the trading community, transport operators, and foreign direct investors;
and (viii) favorable preliminary evaluation of the economic impact of the regional program. The overall
project risk rating was modest; however, some such specific risks as resistance to cooperation by some
border agencies remained well into project implementation. In mid-2002 and mid-2003 the project
encountered several short-term problems. These were raised in supervision reports to management, and
were quickly resolved. The closing date of the project was extended by twelve months in order to enable
completion of the paperless transaction package.




                                                    - 6 -

A. Customs Modernization

          Indicators            1999       2000          2001          2002          2003           2004
                                 Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act. Targ. Act.
Development Objective Achievements
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff 650     700    684     750  746     800    1092    850  954      900   1111
(US$000)
Total CCA Cost/Revenue           2.52   1.5    1.76    1.5   1.6    1.5    0.85    1.5  1.14     1.5    1.19
Collected (%)
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)   1.2    1.2    0.95    1.1   1.2    1.0    0.56    1.0  0.93     1.0    0.94
Trade Volume/Number of Staff     2.5    2.5    3.7     2.6   4.1    2.7     3.6    2.9   4.3     2.9    5.25
(US$000)
Annual Number of                 420    440    568     500  422     800    310    1000  312     1200    547
Declarations/Custom Staff
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ 4,300 4,530 4432 4800 4127 5050 3650 5340 4500 5590 5800
mil.)
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ 7,800 8,160 7923 8550 7539 8950 7125 9330 9300 9730                      10.7
mil.)


·    The revenue collected /customs staff increased from $650, 000 in 1999 to $1.1 million in 2004. The
     significant increase in revenues collected by Customs can be attributed to both acceleration in
     trade/imports, and to improved performance of Customs staff in the detection of irregularities and
     smuggling through streamlined procedures and use of detection equipment, supported through the
     project.
·    Total CCA cost/revenue collected (%) in 2004 was 1.19, meeting the target of <1.5. This ratio was
     2.52 in 1999. At this cost of 1.19% of revenue collected, the CDRC remains the most cost-effective
     Customs Administration in Southeast Europe, exceeding the development objective target of 1.5%.
·    Salaries/revenue collected (%) was 0.94, meeting the target of <1.0. In 1999 this ratio was 1.2.
·    Trade volume/number of staff ($ million/staff) increased from $2.5 million in 1999 to $5.25 million
     in 2004, which was exceeded the target of $2.9 million.
·    Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom Staff increased from 420 in 1999 to 547 in 2004, even
     though it was much short of the target of 1200.
·    Value of Recorded Imports: The value increased from $7800 million in 1999 to $10700 million in
     2004.
·    Value of Recorded Exports: The value increased from $4300 million in 1999 to $5800 million in 2004.




                                                   - 7 -

Pilot Sites Indicators

            Indicators            1999       2000          2001        2002         2003          2004
                                   Act. Targ.   Act 1  Targ. Act. Targ. Act.     Targ .
                                                                                     3  Act. Targ. Act.
 1. Performance of CRDC
 Pilot Inland Terminal of Jankomir
 Import Clearance Time (min.)      240     220          150   171    80    166.8   40   155.3   40     145
 Physical Examination (%)          60      50            35   30.5   15     21.7   10   24.3    10    23.8
 Trucks cleared in less than 15     0       0            10   3.75   25      3.6   50     2     50    12.1
 min. (%)
 Irregularities/No. of             15      15            15   17.3   15    11.16   15    5.4    15    5.79
 Examinations (%)
 Pilot Border Crossing of Macelj
 Truck Examination (%)             40      35            25   9.7    20     28.4   15    9.5    15     7,1
 Irregularities/No. of              1       2             5   0.1    10     10.2   10    9.6    10     7,5
 Examinations (%)
 Average Border Exit Time (min.)   20      20            20   9.1    15      9.1   10    9.1    10     9,1
 Average Border Entry Time         90      80            70   77     40      77    20   54.3    20    53.3
 (min.)
 Pilot Border Crossing of Zupanja
 Truck Examination (%)             40      35            25   84.6   20      22    15    15     15      8
 Irregularities/No. of              1       2            1.5  0.03   10     0.01   10    0.6    10     1.1
 Examinations (%)
 Average Border Exit Time (min.)   70      60            50   34     35      7.3   15    29     15     13
 Average Border Entry Time         60      60            50   8.7    40      8.7   20    8.7    20    5.79
 (min.)
 Pilot Border Crossing of Gradiska
 Truck Examination (%)             40      35            25   98.9   20      100   15   11.3    15    21.4
 Irregularities/No. of              1       2             5   0.02   10     5.27   10   1.85    10    0.75
 Examinations (%)
 Average Border Exit Time (min)    70      60            50   43     35     17.2   15    45     15      8
 Average Border Entry Time         60      60            50   15     40     14.8   20   14.8    20    14.8
 (min)

The development of the methodology and data collection for the performance indicators at pilot sites was a
huge regional and country endeavor, carried out with the support of US Customs assistance. The indicator
results reflect the extent to which the proposed procedural reforms have been achieved; to that end,
comparisons must be made between the baseline figures collected before the project start, the targets set for
each year, and the actual performance. The 2004 (final) targets are common for all TTFSE program
countries and were set in line with the practice in the European Union. Although not all the ambitious
performance targets have been met, significant results should be noted.

Physical/truck examination percentages decreased substantially at all sites, sometimes even in excess of the
targets, as in the case of Macelj and Zupanja. These were the result of a dramatic change in Customs'
mentality, from a virtual "total control" (almost 100% cursory examination of all consignments) to a range
of 7 to 24 percent. The change included the introduction of risk management and selectivity concepts and
practice in Customs officers' work, and involved decisions and commitment at high level management. This
indicator had a direct and major impact on such other indicators as the total time to clear Customs and/or
enter and exit the country.


                                                     - 8 -

Average border entry time: a significant reduction from 60 minutes to 6 minutes, better than the target of
20 minutes, was registered at the entry point of the port of Zupanja. Similarly, at Gradiska, the actual entry
time in 2004 was only 14.8 minutes, exceeding the target of 20 minutes. Reduction in border entry and exit
time are indicators of better organization of traffic flows and of improved inter-agency awareness and
cooperation. There was also significant improvement in the average exit time. For example, at Macelj, it
was 9.1 minutes meeting the target of 10 minutes; at Zupanja, it was 13 minutes against a target of 15
minutes, and Gradiska, the actual time was only 8 minutes, almost half of the the target of 15 minutes.

                                         Regional Performance Indicators      3




Development of transport time and costs on the routes Istanbul - Bucharest, Istanbul ­ Tirana, Sarajevo -
Ljubljana

                                                                             Survey Period
               Route                     Indicators         CYCLE 1             CYCLE 2           CYCLE 3
                                                            (2001/02)         (Spring 2003)    (Autumn 2003)
 I. Istanbul-Bucharest                Avg. Time         No data available          24-48             24-48
                                      (hours)           since Turkey was
                                      Average Cost      not one of the three     800-1560          800-1460
                                      (US$)             main trading
                                                        partners
 II. Istanbul-Tirana                  Avg. Time                120                  90                85
                                      (hours)
                                      Average Cost             1900             1500-1900         1500-1800
                                      (US$)
 III. Sarajevo-Ljubljana              Avg. Time                 16                 17-24             18-24
                                      (hours)
                                      Average Cost           30-1000             550-1025          520-1060
                                      (US$)


It should be noted that the transport fees of forwarders included in these costs do not reflect just the
situation at border crossings included in the project, but rather the situation of the whole transport market
of a TTFSE country and the extent of its stability. In general, there is an increase in the TTFSE region of
transportation costs, that can be attributed - but not limited - to: (i) increased range of services and share of
services in total costs; (ii) influence of the individual contacts of a forwarder and the chances (coming from
bilateral foreign trade) to get load for the return trip or not; (iii) development of road pricing on special
routes; (iv) modernization of the truck fleet; (v) a still unstable transport market; (vi) stronger enforcement
of transport legislation within the EU-15 countries by transporters from SEE; and (vii) escalation especially
in the price of fuel and lubricant but also for tires and spares.

B. Trade Facilitation (TF) Development

Trade Facilitation Component

(i)     Strengthening of Public-Private Partnership

This component supported the activities of Cro-PRO, gathering main stakeholders from the private sector
(Croatian Chamber of Economy, Association of Freight Forwarders, and the public sector (Croatian



                                                       - 9 -

Foreign Trade Center, Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, CRDC). The outputs included:

·      An extensive public outreach effort to raise awareness about trade and transport facilitation over the
       years 2001-2004, in the form of articles and promotional editorials published in magazines such as
       Newspaper- "Glas slavonije",Vecernji list", "Osjecki dom" ; TV- "Slavonska televizija"; Radio-
       "Hrvatski radio-Radio Osijek, Radio plus and Gradski radio.

·      Active regional opportunities to cooperate. The PRO committees of Southeast Europe met three to
       four times a year regionally to discuss about the Trade Facilitation component and other trade
       facilitation issues. They also met regularly on a bilateral basis to address urgent issues and discuss
       cooperation.

·      The willingness by the private sector to match grant funding of Trade Facilitation component. The
       PRO Committees provided a full matching of donor contribution that was directly targeted to them,
       ensuring their active commitment to the program.

·      The elaboration and release of a joint information platform for users (www.ttfse.org). The website,
       designed and maintained regionally provides information on requirements of many border agencies in
       Southeast Europe. Multiple regional coordination meetings were organized to define and build the
       platform.

·      Three exchange programs to the US focused on border issues, supply chain management and
       security, and use of analytical tools (trade facilitation audits) to review their present status.

(ii)   Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents

Training and Seminars. A regional curriculum was developed for TTFSE countries covering topics such
as trade operations, transport, customs procedures, transit, business ethics, INCOTERMS, trade payment
methods. The Croatian Chamber of Economy successfully delivered the planned training courses to more
than 700 participants in four major Croatian cities. The seminars were well received by participants who
came mostly from small to mid-size firms.

Global Facilitation Partnership Distance Learning Initiative. The first two distance learning programs
for Road Transport Operators, co-organized between the International Road Transport Union, the TTFSE
program and the Road Transport Association TransportKomerc, were successfully rolled out. These
programs, with certification recognized in 24 countries, are aligned to EU requirements in terms of
competence of road transport operators. Following the 65 participants who were included in the pilot phase
of the program in 2003, 40 participants took the program and received their IRU Certificate. These
programs appeal particularly to forwarding companies, many of which are involved in customs brokering,
an activity which will be drastically reduced upon Croatia's accession to the EU. TransportKomerc is
working with the International Road Transport Union to become an accredited center of the IRU Academy.
A new distance learning program, in partnership with FIATA (international freight forwarder association)
was prepared by the Freight Forwarders' association in the Croatian Chamber of Economy.

TTFSE.ORG Website. Little progress was achieved in updating data at project closing Information for
some sections of the site are still not available. While the private sector operators are positive about the
tool, responsible governmental bodies have not delivered what they promised by signing the Memorandum
of Understanding.



                                                      - 10 -

C. CDRC Information System

With the advent of the IT infrastructure and updated operational systems, the CDRC will be in a position to
lead a process of integration of the border agency operations. In terms of trade and transport facilitation,
the benefits of customs modernization can go unrealized without the corresponding modernization of the
border agency operations. There is a wide spectrum of possible innovations, from simple web-based links
and document exchange all the way to deep cross-agency inter-operation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures

Training. Southeast European Cooperative Initiative (SECI)/TTFSE Advisory Team (STAT), USA
financed the periodical training of the Croatian Customs staff and other border agencies' staff from the pilot
sites on the data collection process and inter-agency cooperation in order to calculate the performance
indicators of the project.

Hazard materials and Endangered Species training courses were provided by the representatives from
Ministry of Waters and Environmental Protection to the Customs officers and some of the local Customs
brokers from the pilot sites, during May-July 2003, under the supervision of STAT and the NCA
environmental officer.

Seminars on applying the risk profiles in selective and/or targeted verifications at the pilot sites were
provided in 2003, by the Customs Headquarters Risk Analysis Office.

Workshop. A Risk Management Workshop was held by the STAT team in Bucharest at the Romanian
Customs Directorate, in September 2004, where risk management team members from regional offices and
the headquarters attended. A manual providing operational guidelines to the Intelligence staff on profiling,
selectivity, risk assessment, and risk indicators was prepared and delivered.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.

Component II. Trade Facilitation Development

See Section 4.1 (B).

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component III: CDRC Information System

CDRC completed its information processing and communications infrastructure for customs operations. A
unified systems management system is now in place, covering all devices in network, the servers, the
workstations, as well as ancillary devices.

The Risk Analysis & Selectivity unit started its activities in March 2004 and was assisted by consultants
and the STAT team based in Zagreb. The selectivity module was developed and installed at pilot sites in
October 2004 for a six-weeks test. The roll out of the module to all customs office started in December
2004. Training was organized in March 2005 in the premises and within the scope of the Customs
Academy. Training equipment was provided by the EU.



                                                     - 11 -

The project also financed purchasing the software, hardware, and telecommunications equipment for
supporting CDRC Info System.

CDRC Personnel Training. Training was provided by the suppliers for the Customs staff operating with
the equipment purchased under all the contracts performed under the project.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component IV. Improvement of Border Crossing Facilities

Rehabilitation works at border crossings and related Supervision contracts, were completed, as shown
below:

Slavonski Brod Border Post improvement

Construction of new border crossing point is completed. BCP consists of traffic areas: passenger traffic
(six traffic ways: three entry lanes and three exit lanes), separate cargo road with four traffic ways: two
entry lanes and two exit lanes, parking area for personal vehicles with the capacity 28 parking places and
parking area for trucks with the capacity of six parking places.

Gunja Border Post

Construction of new border crossing point was completed in 2003. BCP consists of traffic areas: passenger
traffic (four traffic ways: two entry lanes and two exit lanes), separate cargo road with four traffic ways:
two entry lanes and two exit lanes and parking area for personal vehicles with the capacity about 30
parking places.

Maljeviac Border Post

The new border crossing point is constructed as a joint locality. It consists of traffic areas: passenger traffic
(four traffic ways: two entry lanes and two exit lanes), separate cargo road with four traffic ways: two
entry lanes and two exit lanes, parking area for personal vehicles with the capacity about 30 parking places
and parking area for trucks with the capacity five parking places.

Samac Border Post

The new border crossing point consists of traffic areas: passenger traffic (six traffic ways: three entry lanes
and three exit lanes), separate cargo road with four traffic ways: two entry lanes and two exit lanes,
parking area for personal vehicles with the capacity of 40 parking places and parking area for trucks with
the capacity of 23 parking places.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component V. Program and Project Implementation

The project financed the operating costs and consultants for PIT and the consulting services for auditors, and
procurement advisors.

Achievement for this component is satisfactory.




                                                    - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Based on actual results and on the methodology used during the appraisal, the project had an estimated net
present value of US$23.8 million, compared to an estimated US$25.5 million at the time of project
appraisal. Traffic expanded as a result of the reopening of Pan European Transport Corridor X through
Serbia and Montenegro, and offset partly the delay in reducing processing times at borders (reduction in
processing time was significant, but took longer than anticipated to take place). The overall project costs
were higher than projections, mainly due to currency fluctuation in 2003-2004. The delay in disbursements,
while procedural progress were taking place and performance improved at the crossing, resulted
nonetheless in a rate of return in excess of 75 percent, higher than the originally anticipated of rate of 49
percent.

It is worth noting that, in line with the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Croatia experienced
solid trade expansion during the project life, increasing its trade from US$11.7 billion in 2001 to US$24.4
billion in 2004. This was not considered directly as part of the analysis, to follow the appraisal
methodology. It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits used
in the evaluation is an understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossing. The impact of the
computer network rolled out across the territory at 400 locations was not measured either (in line with the
appraisal approach), although it is likely to have had a significant positive economic impact through
accelerated processing and reduced administration costs.

Costs

The project costs were higher than what was originally anticipated in the Project Appraisal Document, due
mostly to currency fluctuations (weakening of the US Dollar/Euro) for components 3 and 4 of the project
(information system and improvement of border crossing facilities). The total project cost was increased to
US$24.4 million, including US$4.1 million of taxes (not considered in the economic evaluation) compared
to a PAD estimate of US$22.1 million.

Project Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times
at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions. The annual savings on transport costs at the Croatian border
crossings and the inland terminal under the project are estimated at US$9.1 million by 2005 versus
US$11.3 million at appraisal. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals have been substantially
reduced with an estimated 65 percent processing time reduction on average for the pilot sites and sites
upgraded. These measured benefits were slightly lower than the projections made in the project appraisal
document, due to delays in reducing processing time. These estimates nonetheless do not capture the
positive impact of the computerized system (a major project component and expenditure) which now covers
the entire Croatian territory. Since this system is responsible for the collection of over US$5 billion in
revenues, even small productivity gains are likely to have a significant impact, compared to its cost.

Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs
revenue collection clearly exist but is difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors
influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company competitiveness,



                                                    - 13 -

in particular their ability to deliver reliably their inputs in international supply chain, depends nonetheless
on their capacity to assess border transaction cost (direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty.
Since 1999, Croatia, and other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed very strong growth of
their trade volumes. In Croatia, trade increased from US$11.7 billion in 2001 to US$24.4 billion in 2004,
with export more than doubling to reach US$8.8 billion in 2004 instead o US$4.1 billion in 2001. In the
meantime, Customs collected revenues increased from US$2.1 billion to US$5.1 billion. For the purpose of
the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of additional transport benefits
linked to increased trade was added, as per the approach used during appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The fiscal impact of the project was positive. Trade expansion and improved performance of Customs have
generated additional Customs duties and excise taxes. There was substantial increase in revenue collection
by Customs: For example, it increased from US$2.1 billion in 2001to US$4.4 billion in 2004.

Since the Customs administration is not a revenue earning entity, FRR was not calculated. Part of the
increase in revenue collection can be associated to the enhanced processing by Customs, particularly at
pilot sites, but not only (e.g. the project supported extension of Customs information system, that had an
impact). The calculation of direct fiscal impact was however not possible since many factors played a role
(trade increase, reduction in tariffs, free trade agreements, change in excise and VAT collection
mechanisms ) in the fiscal collection by Customs. The overall efficiency indicators (See Development
Indicators) also underline significant progress in the cost effectiveness of Customs.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. The project focused on procedural changes at the border, and the trade facilitation role of
Customs. It created an awareness on the importance of cross-border cooperation among neighboring
countries. The project was also instrumental in improving dialogue among Customs administrations within
the region. For example, since the first RSC meeting was held in February 2000 in Skopje (Macedonia),
seven other RSC meetings had taken place on a regular basis before the project closure, with an average of
two per year. They are likely to continue after the completion of TTFSE projects.

The project has also contributed to capacity building in the Customs administration. Customs staff have
been trained on using modern equipment, with new procedures and new systems which were tested during
the life of the project. More and more Customs staff are being trained by those who received original
training under the project. A main problem in this area was the delay in getting the risk analysis done.

Monitoring the performance of Customs administration using key performance indicators has led to
substantial institutional development impact. Even though these indicators were initially tested on three
pilot sites, they are now replicated in 50-60 more Customs stations, and would be extended very soon to all
the Customs stations in Croatia. The CDRC information system introduced by the project will also increase
Customs Department's capacity to make effective use of its financial resources.

The project was instrumental in creating local project teams, which were semi-informal structures with
representatives of each administration working at border/customs sites (Customs, Veterinary, Health,
Police, and Phyto-sanitary). It also provided technical assistance and advisory services to trade and
international transport participants through Cro-PRO Committee.




                                                       - 14 -

Finally, the three-year Users Survey comparative results published on the TTFSE regional website,
provided a diagnostic of the overall Customs environment from the users' perspective in a transparent
manner, thus contributing to a substantial improvement of the dialogue between Customs and its clients.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Positive Factors

(i)   The vision of becoming a member of the EU on the part of all the TTFSE countries was a major
      incentive, significantly motivating the ownership of, and commitment to, the project.

(ii)  The preparation of the TTFSE Program was preceded by the SECI, which was sponsored by
      the USA and the Stability Pact. The TTFSE was designed to mesh with co-financing from the USA
      under SECI and seen as the first regional program under the Stability Pact. This gave the projects
      under the program high credibility and visibility.

(iii) Excellent donor coordination among the Bank, EU, and the US Government and their speaking as
      one voice made a positive impact on the project. Collaborative mechanisms were created in both
      Washington, D.C and the field, and recurrent missions stopped in Brussels for consultation.

(iv)  The regional approach of the TTFSE Program, including the creation of a Regional Steering
      Committee where the performance of individual projects could be compared with the performance of
      neighboring countries and the sharing of experience and lessons learned created peer pressure among
      the participating countries, which in turn generated a competitive spirit and motivated them to
      perform better.

(v)   Strengthening the role of the private sector, especially with the emergency of Pro-Committees
      under SECI, and the increased professionalization of operators through training, certification, and the
      web-site under the project provided the beginning of a private sector watch-dog function monitoring
      government performance and breaking down the resistance to data sharing in the sector.

Negative Factors

(i)   The dramatic increase in oil prices, not foreseen during project preparation, affected the
      achievement of regional performance indicators related to reduction of transport costs. Similarly, the
      drop of the US dollar vis-a-vis the Euro had not been foreseen when establishing the targets. These
      situations diminished the usefulness of the regional indicators.

(ii)  Vested interests within the trade sector and related economic interests were well-entrenched, not
      readily transparent, and still serve to reinforce corruption as an institutionalized way of doing
      business. Addressing corruption in such a setting cannot bring results overnight. This was recognized
      in the project design, and the reform process was projected within an eight to ten year time-frame.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Positive Factors

(i)   Building cooperation among representatives of border crossing agencies. Because of: (i) the



                                                     - 15 -

      Local Project Teams created at the border crossing points to promote collaboration; and (ii)
      inter-agency communication and cooperation facilitated through signing of a Protocol/Agreement
      promoted by the Borrower through the National Coordinator, towards the end of project life, the
      dialogue and cooperation among border crossing agencies had improved considerably.

(ii)  Cross-border cooperation of Customs. The MOF through CRDC initiated, updated and
      implemented agreements with neighboring Bosnia Herzegovina on joint border control teams to
      facilitate trade and transport while reducing smuggling and increasing border security.

Negative Factors

(i)   Lack of cooperation between the Customs administration and the Border Police (BP). In spite of the
      new Customs legislation, the Border Police considered that they should play a major managerial role
      at the border. This often resulted in re-inspections of goods already cleared by Customs, interference
      in Customs routine inspections, and a general tendency to overstep, which was in contradiction with
      many international conventions, standards, or best practice as observed in the Western world. It
      further demoralized Customs officers, and crippled efforts at modernizing control of goods and
      cross-border traffic (such as selective examination of goods and vehicles).

(ii)  Public-Private Dialogue. Cro-PRO experienced difficulties in maintaining its role as coordinating
      body for public and private stakeholders. Change of government created some instability and led to a
      lack of awareness of its mandate. Whenever there was a change of government, the Cro-PRO
      Committee had to re-establish itself with the new government.

(iii) Institutional reform. Modernization of the Customs administration slowed down because of the: (i)
      demoralization of staff due to managerial, organizational, and institutional policies; (ii) unclear
      responsibilities of the Customs administration, and difficult relations with other law enforcement
      agencies; (iii) changes in the managerial structure, which resulted in major past technical assistance
      inputs being possibly neglected. These factors directly affected performance at pilot sites.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See Section 5.2

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total final cost of the project was US$24.4 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$22.0
million. The difference is mainly due to currency fluctuations in the past years of project implementation.
The original loan amount was US$18.5 million. The Bank financed US$16.1 million, USA financed
US$1.8 million, and the Government contributed US$6.5 million.

Project Cost and Financing, Including Taxes (US$)

                             Government                USA                IBRD                  Total
 Estimated cost (PAD)             6.2                  1.9                 13.9                  22.0
 Final Cost (ICR)                 6.5                  1.8                 16.1                  24.4




                                                    - 16 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The sustainability of the project is considered likely for several overarching reasons: (i) considering
that Croatia is keen to become a member of the EU, it is highly likely that the Government will continue to
make special efforts to sustain the achievements of the project for a smooth integration with the EU; (ii)
due to the high visibility of the regional program and the project, the wide publicity given on the results
achieved, and the availability on the web of information on Customs and border performance, the public is
well aware of the recent developments and as a result, it will be difficult for the Government to backtrack;
(iii) Customs has already taken steps to move to the replication of performance monitoring at other sites;
this has been a decision outside the scope of the project; and (iv) the Government has taken actions to
affirm participation in the follow-up Trade and Transport Integration Project (TTIP).

The project supported values that are critical to fulfilling Croatia's long-term objective of achieving
sustainable growth. Once these reforms are in place, the sustainability of the effort would be assured by the
transparency in Customs operations, regular cooperation among border crossing agencies including those
of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade. Continuous upgrading
of the Customs services, procedures, management, and equipment based on a re-engineered budget would
enable the CRDC to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and continued compatibility
with the EU. The inter-agency and cross-border cooperation approach and culture promoted through the
project are further supported by the EU-funded program on Integrated Border management (IBM).

The monitoring approach using key indicators developed under the TTFSE Project is likely to be continued
beyond the project life, as the management of Customs is determined to follow-up on performance
monitoring and to gradually expand it to all border and Customs inland locations in Croatia. For the
continued collection of data, the Government has proposed that the Customs service itself would take on
this function according to an Action Plan that would gradually be applied to all borders and inland
terminals. The Action Plan was initiated outside the scope or requirements of the project.

Use of X-ray equipment, which is beneficial for the detection of smuggling, will also continue. After the
project completion, but in line with the principles designed by the TTFSE, Croatia developed an agreement
with Bosnia Herzegovina to create and carry-out joint border control procedures between
Maljevac(Croatia) and Izacic (Bosnia Herzegovina), which were both pilot locations during the project life.
Significantly, these actions arise not from initiatives of the World Bank but from the staff of Customs and
other border control agencies.

Croatia is looking ahead to future progress in trade facilitation through participation in the TTIP, seen as a
follow-up regional operation building on the experience, lessons learned, and mechanisms developed under
TTFSE. Various stakeholders from the Government and the private sector participated in a brainstorming
session in March 2004 to identify key components that might be included under this follow-on project.
They expressed their interest in continuing their membership in the program based on a scaled-up, broader
platform focused on the European Corridors and expanded to other modes of transport. The target date for
the new project is FY 2006.

One area which would require continued support for sustainability is the TTFSE regional website. The
sustainability of the website, however, will require further commitment by the respective contributing



                                                     - 17 -

agencies and ministries as well as further funding. The Bank has received requests from the Government
and the Chamber of Commerce for continued support under the potential TTFSE II program.

All organizational units are in place including Risk Assessment, which had encountered some initial
problems. There is a high degree of probability that the achievements will be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory, especially in view of the setting of the project within a regional program. The identification
process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the region's trade and transport
sectors and then sought to match these with the specific needs and interest of the Government of Croatia
and the evolving private sector. The identification and preparatory phase, however, took longer then
planned because the Bank team was completely changed.

The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the Government's development priorities. The
Bank considered the adequacy of the project's design and technical, economic, institutional aspects,
procurement and financial management. Project design also took into account efforts with Customs reforms
elsewhere (e.g. crucial importance of software aspects), and was also built on similar projects which were
undertaken in parallel in six neighboring countries. In addition, the Bank assessed the project's risks and
benefits.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Consultation with and participation of major stakeholders was a key strength of the project.
Various public institutions in Croatia as well business community were consulted during preparation and
were closely involved in project implementation arrangements. Further, close collaboration and cooperation
with neighboring countries and the EU was another key feature of the project.

In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth sociological aspects and local issues while designing the
project. This included the conduct of separate focus groups with: (i) the staff of Customs and (ii) users to
better understand needs and priorities. The team considered options for promoting the development of a
new work culture within Customs, including the promotion of anti-corruption. The team benefited from a
good skill mix (including trade facilitation, Customs, transport, safeguard, institutional, and change
management specialists). This is reflected in the project design and enabled providing for flexibility and
responsiveness to local needs. The continuous presence of Customs experts (from both the Bank and theUS
partners) during project preparation created a climate of mutual confidence and transparency which are
normally not easy to achieve in the realm of Customs, and in particular in SEE countries. The extensive
stakeholder consultations and participatory approach used by the team were highly productive, initiating a
process of ownership that proved invaluable at the implementation stage, and introducing elements for
gradual incorporation into the work culture of Customs.




                                                    - 18 -

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The task
team was very proactive in the management of this project. Sufficient budget and staff resources were
allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The Bank's client relationship
was very cordial and productive. Review teams included specialists in transport, trade facilitation,
Customs, environment, financial management, and procurement. External consultants were used for
specific aspects of project components. Supervision was regularly joined by the US Customs Assistance
Team (STAT) at country and regional level; the US experts brought their knowledge and expertise in the
Customs institutional reforms assessment, data collection, monitoring of performance indicators, and
selectivity.

Project implementation progress was adequately reported, and implementation problems were identified
early and addressed proactively. Performance ratings given in the PSRs were realistic, and sufficient
attention was paid to the project's likely development impact through the monitoring indicators. The Bank
enforced loan covenants and remedies were duly exercised. The task team showed flexibility in suggesting
or approving needed modifications, and successfully worked with the government, implementing agencies,
cofinanciers and other partners.

Because of the continued presence of the consultant based in Zagreb who was involved with the project
during the entire project period, the Bank was able to maintain continuity even when the TTLs changed.
This enabled the Bank to maintain a very active dialogue with the counterparts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
was committed to the objectives of the project and took into account the adequacy of the project design and
technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors. The government
officials and staff of the PIT worked in full cooperation with the Bank's project team.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The Government implementation performance was satisfactory. While the project focused on
the role of Customs as the main agency responsible for the control process of goods entering, leaving and
transiting Croatia, the Government understood well the importance of coordination with other border
agencies. To facilitate this process, a National Coordinator was appointed who also participated in the
regular meetings of the Regional Steering Committee. The Government was responsive in establishing
necessary regulatory framework when needed and providing counterpart financing in time.

The implementation of civil works at border crossings was a complex task, involving various agencies
(Ministry of Transport, Border Police, Customs, Utility Agencies, etc) and having to face the challenge of
keeping the border crossing operational and functioning. While some operational problems occurred


                                                    - 19 -

(especially temporary access to Slavonski Brod), contrary to experience in several other TTFSE countries,
the Government has facilitated good coordination between various agencies resulting in completion of these
facilities as scheduled, including a joint facility with Bosnia and Herzegovina at Maljevac, one of the first
joint facilities in the region.

Implementation of the Customs Information and Communication System could not be fully completed
under the project. The procurement of the fourth and last IT package (PKI/EDI) was stopped by the
e-Government office, which within the framework of establishing a uniform and consistent e-Government,
reviewed specifications and procedures proposed under the fourth package. This review process was not
very well coordinated and was very time consuming, delaying procurement of the fourth package beyond
the project closing date.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of the PIT, which implemented the project under the overall coordination of
CRDC management, was satisfactory. The PIT consisted of competent staff and it was adequately funded.
It was capable of managing the project, under the supervision of and with the support of the Minister of
Finance. The PIT was actively involved in the implementation. Monitoring and reporting to the Bank were
satisfactory. The PIT maintained a good financial management system with detailed internal controls, and
satisfactory accounting and reporting systems, and auditing arrangements.

While outside the PIT mandate, like in several other countries, a problem area remains the
updating/maintenance of the TTFSE website which contains information on border crossing classification,
procedures, opening hours, fees and tariffs, documentation needed, etc. for border crossing users. The
voluntary basis on which this information is to be provided regularly by all relevant agencies to the
Chamber of Economy, which maintains the website, is too weak and timely updating is problematic. While
the website is an important tool to enhance transparency of border crossing procedures, commitment and
ownership of agencies expected to provide regular inputs needs further strengthening.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Project and Program-related Lessons

·      Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-sectoral and
       multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are involved, their
       active participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation and achievement of
       project, objectives and also for ensuring sustainability. There is a need for strengthening the
       interagency cooperation in the follow-up project, as there are still unresolved problems between the
       agencies. The inter-agency cooperation should include cross-border agency cooperation, preferably
       not limited to neighboring countries, but including all countries that form the SEE regional
       marketplace.

·      Replication of Procedures at Pilot Sites. The lessons learned and the success experienced at the
       more progressive border crossing points provide a model for replication in Croatia as well as in other



                                                      - 20 -

    TTFSE countries. The economic returns from such replication could be considerable, multiplying the
    economic returns to date by several times. Croatia should pursue in this direction, making changes in
    procedures at border crossing points that were not included as pilot sites under the project, placing
    emphasis on replication of joint border crossing facilities, including expansion to other modes.

·   Customs control will become more effective and efficient under selective procedures, but this
    requires a change of culture since the actual perception is that the more vehicles are inspected, the
    higher the detection rate of irregularities. Experience from elsewhere shows that targeted, in-depth
    inspections that are based on risk analysis of intelligence data yield much better results, both in terms
    of detection and efficiency. Implementation of selectivity and risk analysis mechanism will allow
    much more targeted control of suspicious cargo/trade/transport.

·   Support for the TTFSE Website. Further cooperation and support from government agencies,
    especially in the area of updating data in website are essential to make the regional website
    sustainable and successful. Having an updated, informative website can contribute significantly to
    enhance transparency of border crossing procedures and to reduce solicited `informal payments' at
    border crossings.

·   Procedures on Border Stations. It is important to improve procedures on all border stations as early
    as possible to enhance implementation of standard procedures and uniformity of processing. Such
    uniformity will enhance the efficiency of the overall transport system, because it reduces the risk of
    traders/transporters to make a detour in order to circumvent strict enforcement at pilot stations.

·   Multifunctional Border Inspection Facilities. While constructing border inspection facilities, it will
    be better to design them as multifunctional facilities that can be converted in logistical centers once
    borders disappear ­ in the case of Hungary and Slovenia after Croatia's accession to EU, when these
    borders would be less relevant. Introduction/improvement of EDI based information flows, not only
    between border agencies but also across borders with neighboring countries is important, especially
    when freight forwarders and shippers will be using electronic data interchange.

·   A comprehensive approach to the question of trade facilitation, looking from multiple angles,
    including joint-border facilities, institutional support, information technology, and training
    contributed to the success of the project.

·   Some civil works were delayed because of the permit approval process, which proved to be quite
    slow, reflecting a very stringent EU-like requirements of the Croatian government.

·   Any IT component is subject to lot of external factors, including e-policies of the government that
    are developed in parallel and not well coordinated. For example, the Customs administration wanted
    to move forward to provide electronic signature (PKI), and direct submission by traders reached
    80-85% declaration signed online, but did not get the final tender for public key infrastructure. As a
    result, this component did not get implemented.

Bank-related Lessons

·   The Bank's Focus in the Future Programs. The Bank must include `behind the border' issues in
    new trade and transport facilitation programs. Most regulatory, administrative, and operational
    non-tariff barriers at borders require some kind of reform at the institutional level. Good coordination



                                                  - 21 -

      with other Bank projects, focused at improving the business climate in countries, is therefore
      required. In addition, programs need to include legitimate security requirements and anti-terrorism
      aspects such as container security code for the scanning of cargoes. Further, the Bank should
      recognize that, when the project involves several innovative reforms, it is normal to have higher risks
      and higher rewards.

·     Holistic Corridor Approach. It is important to take a more holistic corridor approach, targeting the
      functional aspects of transport corridors to optimize their use and capacity. The new project should
      complement the EU policy of transport corridor development which primarily focuses on physical
      improvement of the TEN-T network and transnational transport axes into EU neighboring countries.

·     Result-Oriented Approach. The main characteristic of the project was that it was very focused on
      one border crossing agency (Customs) and result oriented with measurable indicators. This unique
      quality was a major factor which contributed to the success of the project.

·     Policy Dialogue. It is important to start the policy dialogue at the very beginning of the project, and
      to involve all important stakeholders.

·     Regional Approach. To optimize the results of trade facilitation, a regional approach is required
      since most trade in the SEE region is not with neighboring countries, but with the EU and CEE
      project, for which a uni- or bilateral approach would not do much. Furthermore, a regional approach
      can create peer pressure among the participating countries, which in turn would generate competitive
      spirit and motivation amongst them to perform better.

Miscellaneous

·     The contribution of the US as a parallel financier contributed to the success of the project. The
      USAID Grant was instrumental in improving public-private partnership, especially in light of the
      Government's reluctance to borrow for technical assistance to the private sector. Likewise, US
      Customs financed permanent presence of Customs advisors in Croatia (and the whole TTFSE
      region), who helped with data collection, monitoring indicators, and improving the risk-management
      system in Customs administration.

·     It is important to avoid overlaps with EU's Integrated Border Management. This will require
      closer coordination with EU so as to compliment the Bank's activities and avoid any overlapping.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A




                                                    - 22 -

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team Consisted of the Following Members

Paulus A. Guitink              Task Team Leader
Sati Achath                    Consultant
Madhu Nair                     Consultant
Marie Laygo                    Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the Project in Chronological Order

Gerald Ollivier
Paulus Guitink

C. Persons Interviewed for the Preparation of the ICR

Gerald Ollivier                Former Task Team Leader and Transport Specialist
Vladimir Skendrovic            Consultant, Croatia Country Office, World Bank
Vesna Kadic                    Projects Director, Customs Directorate
Ante Kapulica                  Department for BCP, Ministry of Finance
Rajko Cupic                    Department for BCP, Ministry of Finance
Sanja Flegar                   PIU Manager, Department for European Integration and International Finance
                               Relations, Ministry of Finance
Tatjana Rucevic                PIU Manager, Department for European Integration and International Finance
                               Relations, Ministry of Finance
Alexander Friedman             TTFSE Website Consultant, Croatian Chamber of Economy
Ritva Heikkinen                Sector Manager, Public Administration, European Union
Sasa Subotic                   President, CroatiaPRO Committee c/o Croatian Chamber of Economy
Zdenka Peternel                Head of Office, Croatian Chamber of Economy
Ljubica Herceg                 Department Manager, Croatian Chamber of Economy
Donald E. Russell              Chief of Party, SECI-TTFSE
Ralph W. Whiteside             Advisor, SECI-TTFSE

D. Footnotes

1/ No collection for 2000 due to the lack of US assistance (started in 2001).

2/ The 2003 targets will remain the same for year 2004 and throughout project extension.

3/ Source: PlanConsult and Chamber of Commerce and Survey results, May 2004.




                                                       - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:

                                                 Projected in SAR/PAD      Actual/
                       Indicator                    End of Project      Latest Estimate
Revenue Collected/Customs Staff (US$000)                  650                1111
Total CCA Cost/Revenue Collected (%)                      1.8                1.19
Salaries/Revenue Collected (%)                            1.2                0.94
Trade Volume/Number of Staff (US$000)                     2.5                5.25
Annual Number of Declarations/Custom Staff                420                547
Value of Recorded Imports (US$ mil.)                     4,300                5.8
Value of Recorded Exports (US$ mil.)                     7,800               10.7



Output Indicators:

                                                Projected in SAR/PAD       Actual/
                       Indicator                    End of Project      Latest Estimate
Pilot Inland Terminal of Jankomir
Import Clearance Time (min.)                             240                 145
Physical Examination (%)                                  60                 23.8
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)                    0                 12,1
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)                    15                 5.79
Pilot Border Crossing of Macelj
Truck Examination (%)                                     40                  7,1
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)                     1                  7,5
Average Border Exit Time (min.)                           20                  9,1
Average Border Entry Time (min.)                          90                 53.3
Pilot Border Crossing of Zupanja
Truck Examination (%)                                     40                   8
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)                     1                  1.1
Average Border Exit Time (min)                            70                  13
Average Border Entry Time (min)                           60                 5.79
Pilot Border Crossing of Gradiska
Truck Examination (%)                                     40                 21.4
Irregularities/No. of Examinations (%)                     1                 0.75
Average Border Exit Time (min)                            70                   8
Average Border Entry Time (min)                           60                 14.8




                                             - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                                                               Annex 2a

Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)



                                        Appraisal          Actual/        Percentage
        Project Component                Estimate       Latest Estimate  of Appraisal
Part A: Institutional Reform on
Customs Procedures                         1.4                1.4            100
Part B: Trade Facilitation (TF)
Development                                0.4                1.4            100
Part C: CDRC Information System
Improvement                                6.8               10.6           155.9
Part D: Improvement of Border
Crossing Facilities                        9.8               11.9           121.4
Part E: Program and Project
Implementation                             0.6                0.1           16.7
Total Baseline Costs                      19.0               24.4           127.7
Physical Contingencies                     2.0
Price Contingencies                        1.0
Total Project Costs                       22.0               24.4           110.4




                                             - 25 -

                                                                                                               Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)*


                                         Procurement Method                           Procurement Method
Expenditure Categories                    Appraisal Estimate                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 ICB      NCB Other NBF Total                  ICB      NCB Other NBF Total
1. Works                          11.2                                 11.2    11.8                                11.8
                                 (6.8)                                (6.8)    (9.1)                               (9.1)
2. Goods                          7.6                0.3               7.9      9.5                                 9.5
                                 (6.2)              (0.2)             (6.5)    (6.5)                               (6.5)
3. Consultant Services &                             0.6      1.9      2.5                         1.2     1.7      2.9
Equipment                                           (0.5)             (0.5)                       (0.5)            (0.5)

4. Training                                          0.1               0.1
                                                    (0.1)             (0.1)
5. Operating Costs                                   0.1      0.2      0.3                                 0.2      0.2
                                                    (0.1)             (0.1)
Total                             18.8               1.1      2.1      22.0    21.3                1.2     1.9     24.4
                                 (13.0)             (0.9)             (13.9)  (15.6)              (0.5)           (16.1)


   * Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultants under
   trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).
   The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained
   in footnotes to the table.



                                                                                                               Annex 2c

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



                                            Appraisal                      Actual/                  Percentage of
           Component                         Estimate                  Latest Estimate                Appraisal
                                     Bank Govt. Cofinancier Bank Govt. Cofinancier Bank Govt. Cofinancier
Part A: Institutional Reform on                                    0       0         1.4
Customs Procedures
Part B: Trade Facilitation (TF)                                    0       0         0.4
Development
Part C: CDRC Information                                          8.8     1,8        0
System Improvement
Part D: Improvement of Border                                     7.2     4.6        0
Crossing Facilities
Part E: Program and Project                                       0.1     0.1        0
Implementation




                                                         - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Based on actual results and on the methodology used during the appraisal, the project had an estimated net
present value of US$23.8 million, compared to an estimated US$25.5 million at the time of project
appraisal. Traffic expanded as a result of the reopening of Pan European Transport Corridor X through
Serbia and Montenegro, and offset partly the delay in reducing processing times at borders (reduction in
processing time was significant, but took longer than anticipated to take place). The overall project costs
were higher than projections, mainly due to currency fluctuation in 2003-2004. The delay in
disbursements, while procedural progress were taking place and performance improved at the crossing,
resulted nonetheless in a rate of return in excess of 75 percent, higher than the originally anticipated of rate
of 49 percent.

It is worth noting that, in line with the overall project objective of facilitating trade, Croatia experienced
solid trade expansion during the project life, increasing its trade from US$11.7 billion in 2001 to US$24.4
billion in 2004. This was not considered directly as part of the analysis, to follow the appraisal
methodology. It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20 percent of transport benefits used
in the evaluation is an understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossing. The impact of the
computer network rolled out across the territory at 400 locations was not measured either (in line with the
appraisal approach), although it is likely to have had a significant positive economic impact through
accelerated processing and reduced administration costs.

Costs

The project costs were higher than what was originally anticipated in the Project Appraisal Document, due
mostly to currency fluctuations (weakening of the US Dollar/Euro) for components 3 and 4 of the project
(information system and improvement of border crossing facilities). The total project cost was increased to
US$24.4 million, including US$4.1 million of taxes (not considered in the economic evaluation) compared
to a PAD estimate of US$22.1 million.

Project Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times
at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project.

Trade and Transport cost reductions. The annual savings on transport costs at the Croatian border
crossings and the inland terminal under the project are estimated at US$9.1 million by 2005 versus
US$11.3 million at appraisal. Delays at border crossings and inland terminals have been substantially
reduced with an estimated 65 percent processing time reduction on average for the pilot sites and sites
upgraded. These measured benefits were slightly lower than the projections made in the project appraisal
document, due to delays in reducing processing time. These estimates nonetheless do not capture the
positive impact of the computerized system (a major project component and expenditure) which now covers
the entire Croatian territory. Since this system is responsible for the collection of over US$5 billion in
revenues, even small productivity gains are likely to have a significant impact, compared to its cost.

Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and Customs
revenue collection clearly exist but is difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of other factors
influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries. Company
competitiveness, in particular their ability to deliver reliably their inputs in international supply chain,



                                                      - 27 -

depends nonetheless on their capacity to assess border transaction cost (direct and time cost) with a fair
degree of certainty. Since 1999, Croatia, and other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed very
strong growth of their trade volumes. In Croatia, trade increased from US$11.7 billion in 2001 to US$24.4
billion in 2004, with export more than doubling to reach US$8.8 billion in 2004 instead o US$4.1 billion in
2001. In the meantime, Customs collected revenues increased from US$2.1 billion to US$5.1 billion. For
the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of additional transport
benefits linked to increased trade was added, as per the approach used during appraisal.



FY                        2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 201 201
                                                                                                          4   5
 Costs
 Investment Costs
     With the Project
     Trade Facilitation   0.1    0.1   0.1  0.1
     Development          0.3    0.5   0.3  0.3
     Customs              0.2    0.1   1.7  5.1    1.8
     Administration       0.2    0.1   1.9  5.7    1.8
     Institutional Reform 0.7    0.8   4.0  11.2 3.6
     Information
     Systems
     Improvement
     Border Facilities
     Improvement
     Total With the
     Project
 Total Incremental        0.7    0.8   4.0  11.2 3.6      0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0 0.0
 Costs

 Economic Benefits
 Transport Cost
 Reduction (with          0.2    3.5   3.6  4.4    4.0    4.1   4.3  4.4    4.5   4.6    4.8   4.9   5.1  5.2 5.4
 project)                 0.0    0.0   0.9  2.1    2.9    2.9   3.0  3.1    3.2   3.3    3.4   3.5   3.6  3.7 3.8
     Pilot Crossings      0.5    1.4   2.0  2.4    2.2    2.9   3.0  3.1    3.1   3.2    3.3   3.4   3.5  3.6 3.8
     Other                0.6    4.9   6.4  9.0    9.1    9.9   10.2 10.6 10.9 11.2 11.5 11.9 12.2 12.6 13.0
     Crossings/Posts
     Pilot Inland
     Terminal             0.1    1.0   1.3  1.8    1.8    2.0   2.0  2.1    2.2   2.2    2.3   2.4   2.4  2.5 2.6
     Total
                                            -4.3 -5.4 -7.2 -7.4 -7.6 -7.8 -8.1 -8.3 -8.6 -8.8 -9.1 -9.3
 Impact of Reduced
 Transport Costs on
 Trade
     Trade Benefits from
     Transport Cost
     Reduction

 Transport Cost



                                                    - 28 -

Reduction (without
project)
Total Benefits from     0.7    5.9   7.7   6.4   5.4   4.8  4.9  5.1   5.2   5.4   5.5  5.7  5.9 6.0 6.2
Project

Net Benefits from       0.0    5.2   3.7   -4.8 1.9    4.8  4.9  5.1   5.2   5.4   5.5  5.7  5.9 6.0 6.2
Project

Source for Costs : Email dated 09/23/2005 from Vesna Kadic, Project Manager, email from Goran
Bozicevic, dated 09/26/2005, and projects database.




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                            No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                                 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year         Count               Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               3/6-11/2000                          1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
               4/23-28/2000                         1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

               02/27/2001                           3    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                                         SNR CUSTOMS SPECIALIST
                                                         (1); SNR OPERATIONS
                                                         OFFICER (1)
               04/30/2002                           4    TTL (1); SENIOR CUSTOMS               S               S
                                                         SPEC. (1); SR.
                                                         PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                         SR. FMS (1)
               11/12/2002                           6    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.                  S               S
                                                         CUSTOMS SPECIALIST (1); IT
                                                         PROCUREMENT (1); SR.
                                                         PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                                         PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                                         (1); FMS (1)
               06/17/2003                           2    TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                                         CONSULTANT (1)
               10/19/2004                           2    CONSULTANT (1); PROJECTS              S               S
                                                         OFFICER (1)


 ICR
               5/20005                              1     CONSULTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                           NA                             95.5
  Supervision                                          NA                           381.6
  ICR                                                  NA                             20.0
  Total                                                NA                           497.1


SAP no longer provides information on staff weeks.




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project.

4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated November 6, 2005.

5. Project Appraisal Document for Croatia Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project,
   dated September 27, 2000 (Report No. 20459-HR).




                                                 - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

1. Project Objectives

The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project, which forms a part of a regional
program, had two development objectives:

a) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
b) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

Measures through which it was planned to achieve these objectives were:

Support to the reform of customs administration; strengthening interaction and cooperation between border
control agencies and trading community; disseminating information and providing training to the private
sector; improvement of infrastructure and equipment at selected border crossings; implementing, at pilot
sites, new set of customs procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques and
strengthening interagency awareness.

Development objectives of the Project were relevant and important. Since trade has an important role in
Croatian economy, trade would be facilitated by offering efficient and more competitive transport
connections to serve also to the private sector activities. By institutional strengthening and border crossing
improvements, it was expected to reduce the costs of trade and transport.

2. Suitability of Project Design

The project was designed as to focus on modernizing customs administration and its procedures, on
upgrading customs facilities, improving private-public interactions and strengthening regional cooperation.

The project consisted of the following five components:

a) Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures, including technical assistance in preparation of laws,
    bylaws and administrative regulations, introducing some new customs procedures, assisting in CDRC
    reform, monitoring operations at four pilot sites and provide training to enhance interagency
    cooperation;

b) Trade Facilitation Development, including distance learning training for economic operators, through
    Croatian Chamber of Economy and creation of a web site to support information availability;

c) CDRC Information system Improvement, including supply and installation of new hardware and
    software;

d) Improvement of Border Crossing facilities at Slavonski Brod, Gunja, Maljevac and Slavonski Samac;
    and

e) Program and Project Implementation, including support to the PIT, training to the Project manager and
    Project Implementation team.




                                                    - 34 -

The project design was suitable to meet the objectives. However, in some terms it was to ambitious,
especially related to the performance targets on four pilot sites (three border crossings and one inland
terminal).

Monthly measurements showed improvement at these pilot sites, especially related to the reducing waiting
times, but it was hard to expect that targets which were stated in the Performance Indicators, due to a fact
that the whole project design was meant to be performed in a longer process (eight to ten years), than it was
a planned project duration.

The initially project closing date of March 31, 2004 was extended one year, due to the extensiveness of IT
system improvement process and because of hiring Consultants for establishment of risk analysis system
with delay.

This project extension did not caused any changes in project design.

3. Suitability of Implementation Arrangements

Implementation arrangements were suitable for Project implementation.

All components were implemented by the Croatian Customs Directorate, except trade facilitation
development component, which was implemented by the Croatian Chamber of Economy.

Component on Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures was implemented together with SECI team,
which provided technical support to the CDRC.

At the beginning of the project, Procedures Manual was prepared, which defined responsibilities off all
actors in the Project.

Financial Management Unit was established in the Ministry of Finance, and it was responsible for financial
disbursement under the TTFSE project.
Procurement Unit was established in the Customs Directorate and was responsible for preparation of all
tender documentation and whole procurement process.

CDRC IT system and border crossings improvement components were implemented through procurement
procedures, done by CDRC. All procurement was done through ICB methods and was transparent and in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines. For IT component, it was planned to have a four procurement
packages, but the CDRC has withdraw the last one regarding electronic signature and asked for
reallocation of funds for upgrading the previous packages.

Improvement of border crossings component has been done together with the Department for construction
and maintenance of border crossing facilities, within the Ministry of Finance. They were responsible for
preparation of technical specifications.

4. Project Implementation

Project implementation commenced as originally planned and a number of activities have proceeded within
the original timeframe. On the other hand, some activities started with some delay, mainly due to the fact
that some documentation, meaning technical specifications for border crossings, had to be adjusted and
some decisions related to the IT development have to be made on the governmental level.



                                                   - 35 -

The Bank was very responsive and flexible in making any additional adjustments, especially in IT
documentation, bearing on mind very fast changes and development of new information technologies.

5. Project Cost and Financing

The total final cost of the project is higher than the original estimate. The difference is mainly in currency
amounts due to currency fluctuations in the years of project implementation.

Due to the fact that the CDRC withdraw from the fourth IT package regarding electronic signature, the
Bank reallocated the funds for upgrading the previous IT package, on Customs Network.

6. Project Benefits

The main beneficiaries of the project are Ministry of Finance, CDRC, border agencies, Croatian Chamber
of Economy and economic operators.

Performance indicators showed that project resulted with positive achievements in reduction of waiting time
at pilot sites, as a result of introducing selectivity and risk analysis criteria and better interagency
cooperation. The project contributed to the better cooperation between customs administrations in this
region and reduced smuggling.

Through the project, web site, which provides information about requirements of border agencies, was
introduced.
Constructed and improved border crossing facilities are enabling more effective work of customs and police
officers, and facilitate also passenger's traffic.
Improved IT system of Customs Directorate enabled networking of all customs locations and modernized
its equipment.

7. Borrower's Performance

The Borrower's and implementing agency's performance was satisfactory, starting from the preparation
phase, during which the Borrower showed a high degree of commitment and cooperation with the Bank and
through out the project implementation the Borrower and the implementing agency were trying to resolve
any problem or task in a timely and efficient manner.

8. Bank's Performance

Bank's performance has been highly satisfactory both in the preparatory phase and in project
implementation. The Bank's team has established a very effective relationship with the Borrower and its
implementing agency. Supervision and procurement review were performed in a timely manner, providing
advice and assistance to the Borrower and PIU whenever needed.




                                                     - 36 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 31814R
                                                                          15°
GERMANY                                                                                    CZECH REP.                                          20°                                                              25°             From Germany                                    30°                                  SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Germany
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                SLOVAK REP.                                                                                  Exports: Imports:              $58 $159                                           TRADE AND TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $41 $89                    10/5 10/5         UKRAINE                    FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
                                                                                                                                                                                   To France           From France            60/10 60/10                  $475 $450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              $1,400 $1,600                                                                                 EUROPE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                             Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                                               $722 $799                                                           Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                                               90/6 90/6                                                             $245 $133                                            MAIN TRADE PATTERNS
                                                              AUSTRIA                                                                                                                        $1,100 $1,600                                                          60/10 60/10
                                                                                                                                               Exports: Imports:                                                             Imports:                              $1,300 $650
                                                                                                                                                $1,627 $1,923                                                                $116                                    To / From
                                                                                                                                                  76/6 76/6                                                                                                                                                    IMPORT AND EXPORT PATTERNS (2000):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10/3                              Russian Federation
                                                  Exports: Imports:                                                                               $920 $1,270                                                                $350
                                                       $132 $325                                                                                                                                                                                       MOLDOVA                                               Exports (US$, Millions)                                             Imports (US$, Millions)
                                                       78/6 79/7                                                                 HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Exports:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                $400                                                                               Exports: Imports:
                 Exports: Imports:                 $1,730 $2,000                                                                                                                                                                       $46                                                                                                            $211 $300
                    $631 $679                                                       Imports:                                                                                                                                           85/15                                                                                                      192/24 192/24

                    53/5 53/5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $3,800 $3,800
                                                                                     $530                                                                                                                                              $1,700
                 $1,400 $1,500                                                       19/5                                                                                                                                                                                                          Transport Time (between capital cities)*/                               Transport Time (between capital cities)*/
                                                       SLOVENIA                      $630                    Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                             Waiting Time @ Border Crossing Points (Hours)**              Transport          Waiting Time @ Border Crossing Points (Hours)**
                                                                                                                $168 $491                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Costs
                                                                                                               60/10 60/10                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (US$)**

                                                                 Exports: Imports:                            $1,300 $1,700                                                                                  ROMANIA
                                                                   $481 $629                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Color of value reflects change in import/export situation since 1999:

                                                                    7/2 11/3                  $4,344                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         $300       Worsening situation

                                                                   $300 $400                                                                                                      To USA
                                                                                                                                                                                            Exports:               $1,569                                                                                                                  192/24 Improving situation

                                                                                              CROATIA                Exports:             Exports: Imports:                                  $380                                              Imports:  From Russian Federation                                                            $3,800      No change in situation
45°                                                                                                                   $498                  $256 $252                                                                                          $1,120
                                                                                                                                           55/10 65/10
          Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Thickness of import/export line reflects import/export amount;
                                                                                                                                          $1,900 $1,900
             $991 $1,318                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Color of import/export line reflects change in import/export situation since 1999:
                                                                             Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Worsening situation
             42/6 45/5                                                            $82 $545                                                                                                     Exports: Imports:                                                                     45°
          $1,000 $1,100                                                           9/1 12/2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Improving situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                $2,319 $2,443
                                                                                $630 $860                                                SERBIA                                                                                                                                                                                                         No change in situation

                                                         Exports: Imports:                                 $1,114                                                                                  68/8 68/8                                     Exports:
                                                               $66 $341                                                                   AND                                                   $1,100 $1,900                                     $627
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            *Milan is used for Italy.
                                                             14/2 16/3                                                              MONTENEGRO                                                                                                    17/7                                                                      **Average time and costs estimated based on surveys and estimates.

  SAN MARINO                                                 $800 $1,000                                                                                                                                                                          $800
                                                                                              BOSNIA AND
                                                                                            HERZEGOVINA                                                                                     Exports: Imports:
                                                                                                                                                                                              $436 $905                                                                                                              MAIN MACRO-TRADE INDICATORS:
                                                                                                                                                                                             88/18 88/18
                                                                                                                                                          $605                              $2,000 $1,550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GDP per capita (US$)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Black                                                                                                    $4,000


                                                                                                                                           Exports: Imports:                                                                                                               Sea
                                    Exports: Imports:                                                               Exports: Imports:        $333 $190
                                       $216 $390                                                                      $188 $304              14/4 14/4                   Exports: Imports:                                                      Imports:                                                                                                                           $2,000
                                       51/8 51/8                                                                      11/2 14/3              $500 $600                      $686 $551                   BULGARIA                                $1,588   From Russian Federation
                                    $1,140 $1,590                                                                     $600 $600                                            56/16 56/16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   $1,000
                                                                                                                                                                          $1,700 $1,800
                                                      Exports: Imports:                Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           $500

       ITALY                                              $150 $255                        $23 $72                                                                                                            $1,566                   Exports:
                                                          58/8 56/8                    144/24 144/24                                                                                                                                    $492
                                                      $1,150 $1,600                    $2,000 $2,500                                                                                                                                    18/3                                                                 Color of circle, and GDP Per Capita value, reflects change in GDP situation since 1999:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $300
                                                                                                                                                               FYR                                                                                                                                                              $500                 Worsening situation

                                                                                                                                                      MACEDONIA                                                                                                                                                                 $500                 Improving situation

                                                                                                      Adriatic Sea                                                                             Exports: Imports:                                                                                                                $500                 No change in situation
                                                                                                                                                                                                  $376 $318
                                                                                              Imports:                                                          $1,704                            19/3 19/3                                                                                                                                 Exports
                                                                                               $111                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Import
                                                                                                         Exports: Imports:   ALBANIA                                         Exports:             $500 $1,100                                                                                                                 Real                                                    GDP
                                                                                                           $165 $338                                                           $84                                                                                                                                                GDP                 (FOB)             (CIF)              per
                                                                                                         120/24 120/24                $970                                     15/2                                                                                                                                                     in US$                                                 Capita
                                                                                                         $1,450 $2,500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     in US$            in US$
                                                                                                                                                                    Imports:   $600                                                                                                                                                              billion          billion            billion
                                                                                                                                                                     $200                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in US$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2000
                                                                                                                                                                     34/10
40°                                                                                                                                                                  $800                                                                                                                             ALBANIA*                                          3.8                  0.3             0.9            970

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA*                           4.2                  0.6             2.3          1,114
                                                                                                                                            Exports: Imports:                                            Imports:                                                                     40°
                                                                                                                                                $37 $213                                                                                                                                              BULGARIA                                         12.4                  4.8             6.5          1,566
                                                                                                                                                                                                           $50
                                                                                                                                             60/24 96/24                                                 120/48                                                                                       CROATIA                                            19                  4.4             7.9          4,344
                                                                                                                                             $1,100 $1,100                                               $1,900
                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FYR MACEDONIA                                     3.7                  1.3             2.0          1,704
                                                                                          0              100              200                                                                         Aegean                                                                                          ROMANIA                                          35.2                10.3            13.0           1,569
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                     KILOMETERS                                          GREECE                                                                                                      TURKEY                           SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                             9.0                  1.7             3.7           865
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MOLDOVA**                                         1.5                  0.5             0.9           400
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                20°                                                                                                                                                                   *1999 data.        **2001 data.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MAY 2003

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 31815R
                      Salzburg
                                                              15°                           Bratislava                          20°                                                                   25°  Chernivtsi                                                                     30°
                                                                                                                                    Miskolc
                                    A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Yuzhnoukrayinsk
                                                                                                                                             Nyíregyháza                                                                W  Siret
                                                                                                                                                                         Satu Mare                                                                  Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                Gyor
                                                                                                   "                                                                                                                                           M                                U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Suceava
                                                                                                                      Budapest                Debrecen                             Baia                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                   Mare
        Lienz                                                     Graz                                                                                                                                                                                 L
                                                                                               Székesfehérvár                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                            H U N G A R Y                                    Oradea                                                                                            Chisinau 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Iasi             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Chisinau
                                      Villach                                                      V                         Kecskemét
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Piatra-                              Leuseni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             V        Tighina
                                                            Maribor                                              V   X      IV                                                                                        Neamt¸
                                                                                                                                                                      Cluj-Napoca                                                                             A
                                  SLOVENIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Palanca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Odessa
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Targu Mures             Bacau      Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
                           Ljubljana                                   Macelj
                                                                                                      Pécs               Szeged                       Arad                                                                                       IX

                                                                        Zagreb                                                                                                                                                                             Cahul
                   Trieste                           Jankomir                                                                 Horgos                                                 R O M A N I A
                                                                           X
    Venice
                                       Rijeka                     Karlovac  CROATIA                    Osijek                                                                        Sibiu                                        Focsani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Brasov
45°                                                      Maljevac W           Gradiska         Slavonski
                                                                                               Brod   Samac
                                                                               WNovi                                         Novi Sad                                                      IV
                                                                                                 W
                   Pula                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                Grad                  W                                                       IV
                                                                                          Bosanska             Zupanja                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Buzau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                45°
                                                                   C  Izacic              Gradiska                                                                                  Ramnicu
                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                      Bihac                                C  W      Batrovci                                                        Valcea
                                                                                Banja     Banja    Orasje Gunja
                                                                                 Luka                                                                             Drobeta-
                                                                                          Luka      Doboj          C Raca                                                                             Pitesti  Ploiesti
                                                                                                                                                                    Turnu
                                                                                                           Tuzla           Belgrade                                Severin
                   A                                                            BOSNIA AND

   SAN                                                                                                                                                                       Craiova                                        Bucharest
   MARINO                 d                                                       Jajce     Travnik
                              r                                              HERZEGOVINA                                            SERBIA                                                                                                        Constanta C      Constanta
                                 i   a                                          D Kamensko                                              AND                     Vidin W                                      Giurgiu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       B l a c k
                                                                                                  V
                                          t                                Split                        Sarajevo                                                                                                          Rousse
                                              i                                                  Konjic                     MONTENEGRO                                                          VII                   C Rousse
                                                 c                                          Grude                                                                                                                                            Dobrich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IX                                                                         S e a
                                                                                Gorica D                                                                 X                                  Pleven
  I T A L Y                                                                                   Mostar                                                       Nis
                                                                                                                                                                           IV

                                                                                          D Doljani                                                                                                                                                     Varna
   Terni                                                                                                                                                          X                       B U L G A R I A
                                                                                                                                                            Gradina
                            Pescara
                                                                                       Dubrovnik                                                                                                                             Sliven
                                                                                                                                                Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                     Sofia                            Plovdiv
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VIII      W  Bourgas

Rome                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bourgas
      SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION                                              S                             Podgorica                                               Pernik
                                                                                         Debeli Breg
                                                                                e                                                           Presevo        Deve                                    Stara Zagora
                                                                                                                                                           Bair
    TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                           a                                                                              C  Gyueshevo
                                                                                                                     Shkodër                           C      C
                                                                                                                                  C
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                                                                  Morina       Tetovo      Skopje
                                                                                                                                                         Tabanovce
                                                                                                                                    Kumanovo
         EUROPE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                         Kapitan
                                                         Foggia                                                                                                                 Cotse                                        W
                                                                                                                                    Gostivar          FYR                                                                          Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                               Delchev                        Andreevo

                                                                                                          Durres                    VIII
              PROJECT*:                                                                                               Tirana               MACEDONIA                           Kulata
                                                                            Bari                             Durrës        Tirana                                            W                                                                   IV
          W  Naples
               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                               C Kafasan        Prilep
                                                                                                                                       Struga   X
          D    DESIGN PROJECT                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                   Elbasan              Ohrid
                                                                                                                            Qafe                Bitola                                                                                                                                Kadiköy
               PILOT BORDER STATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Istanbul                                       Sakarya
                                                                                                                           Thane                                          IV
               PILOT INLAND TERMINALS                                                                              ALBANIA                                        X

          C    COMBINED PILOT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                  Taranto                                      Korçë                                                                                                                                                              Golcük
                                                                                                                                                                       Thessaloniki
40°                                                                                                          Vlorë
          II  PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                 Lecce                                                                                                                                                                                          T U R K E Y
              MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                   Ersekë                                                                                                                                                    Bursa

              MAJOR RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40°
    Mediterranean
              MAIN CITIES
                                                                                                                  Sarandë                G R E E C E
             Sea
              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0       50     100     150     200                                                                                                                                 Balikesir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                 15°                                                                                    20°                                     Larisa                                  25°                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30°
              *Subject to change as other projects are finalized.                           KILOMETERS                                       Trikala                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 2003

