                          Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 27194

            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (IDA-29530 COFN-04270 TF-20452 TF-26373 PPFI-P9980 TF-26803)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.7 MILLION (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE

                     REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                            FOR A

           SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                       November 24, 2003

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective September 2003)

               Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
                    YER1.00 = US$ 0.005
                    US$ 1.00 = YER183.75

               1997: US$1.00=YER129.28
               1998: US$1.00=YER135.88
               1999: US$1.00= YER155.75
               2000: US$1.00= YER161.73
               2001: US$1.00= YER168.63
               2002: US$1.00= YER178.88

                     FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1- December 31

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CGAP             Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
CBO              Community-Based Organization
ESF              Egypt Social Fund
GTZ              Technical Cooperation Association (Germany)
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IGP              Income-Generating Programs
KfW              Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Germany)
MIS               Management Information System
NGO              Non-Govermental Organization
OPEC              Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PHRD             Policy and Human Resources Development- Japan Trust Fund
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SDR              Special Drawing Rights
SFD               Social Fund for Development
UNCDF             United Nations Capital Development Fund

              Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
           Country Director:      Mahmood Ayub
             Sector Director:     David Steel (Acting)
          Task Team Leader:       Yasser El-Gammal

                                        REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                             SOCIAL FUND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                               CONTENTS




                                                                                            Page No.
      1. Project Data                                                                             1
      2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
      3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                  2
      4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                     5
      5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     18
      6. Sustainability                                                                         20
      7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          22
      8. Lessons Learned                                                                        23
      9. Partner Comments                                                                       25
      10. Additional Information                                                                29
      Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
      Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
      Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
      Annex 4. Bank Inputs
      Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
      Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
      Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
      Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
      Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
      Annex 10. Trust Fund Assessment
      Annex 11. Microcredit Program
NOTE: This report reflects a comprehensive analysis of the implementation experience and the
achievements of the Social Fund for Development (SFD) project. The lessons learned are expected to
further guide the Government of Yemen, the SFD, the Bank, donors, and other stakeholders in two ways: to
imbue improvements in their programs aimed at assisting Yemen's poor communities and vulnerable groups
and to provide guidance to similar operations in the region. The participatory process adopted in preparing
this report helped build the local stakeholder capacity in carrying out multi-sectoral program evaluations.
The first phase of a comprehensive impact evaluation, including household surveys, community surveys,
and participative surveys, was completed in September 2003: its findings are reflected in the report and
detailed in Annex 8. A stakeholder workshop was held in September 2003: its findings are reflected in the
report and detailed in Annex 9.

Project ID: P041199                                                  Project Name: SOCIAL FUND DEVPT
Team Leader: Yasser El-Gammal                                        TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: December 8, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOCIAL FUND DEVPT                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-29530;
                                                                                                     COFN-04270; TF-20452;
                                                                                                     TF-26373; PPFI-P9980;
                                                                                                     TF-26803
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: General water/sanitation/flood protection sector (25%); Health
                            (25%); General education sector (25%); Other social services (19%);
                            Micro- and SME finance (6%)
                  Theme: Civic engagement, participation and community driven development
                            (P); Small and medium enterprise support (P); Social risk reduction
                            (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Poverty strategy, analysis
                            and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/04/1996                                     Effective: 09/24/1997                09/24/1997
     Appraisal: 02/27/1997                                         MTR: 12/31/2000                  10/27/1999
      Approval: 05/22/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/SOCIAL FUND FOR DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, Government of the
                                           Netherlands, European Union

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 George Schieber
Team Leader at ICR:             Yasser El-Gammal                               Qaiser Khan
ICR Primary Author:             Willem Struben



2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR

                               Quality at Entry: S                           S
                    Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
To reduce proverty by establishing a demand-driven mechanism that (a) improves the living conditions of
the poor through community-development services and (b) supports income-generating activities throught
the development of small and micro-enterprises (SME). The project objective reflected government
priorities for improving the social and economic conditions of the poor and was consistent with the
government's overall development strategy to promote broad-based economic growth, develop the country's
human resource base, reduce infrastructure constraints, and promote self-reliance. The objective was also
in line with the objectives set out in the CAS (No. 15286-YEM, January 19, 1996): poverty-targeted
investments and development of human resources. The SFD was specifically mentioned in the CAS as
complementing the structural adjustment program (Economic, Financial, and Administrative Reform
Program) and as offering the government an alternative mechanism for providing social services and
assistance to the poor.

Subsequent studies, reports, and government and Bank policy decisions have reconfirmed the importance of
the project objective, including the government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (I-PRSP) of
April 2000, followed by the PRSP of May 2002, and the Bank's CAS of August 2002 and Poverty Update
of December 2002 (Report No. 24422-YEM). The government documents made explicit references to the
"need to increase expenditure allocations to the social sectors and infrastructure" and identified four pillars:
(i) achieving economic growth, (ii) developing human resources, (iii) improving infrastructure, and (iv)
ensuring social protection. Indeed, the project aimed at all, particularly the last three. The latest CAS,
building on the PRSP, mentioned: (i) improved governance, (ii) better human capital, (iii) ensuring
environmental sustainability, and (iv) improved investment environment to generate job opportunities.
Again, the project aimed at all, particularly the first two.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.

3.3 Original Components:
Three kinds of activities were to be implemented over a five-year period; a four-year period sufficed.

Component 1- Community Development, US$38.3 million
Identification and implementation of subprojects mainly education, health, water supply, and sanitation
for small-scale labor-intensive works and for the delivery of community services. In accordance with the
Operational Manual, subproject selection was to be transparent and based on efficient resource use and on
sustainability, measured as the ability to recover operations and maintenance costs. Intermediary
organizations, including NGOs and local governments, would assist communities in preparing and
implementing subprojects identified by the poor communities as priorities.

Component 2- Small and Micro-Enterprise (SME) Development, US$27.4 million
Development of SMEs through technical assistance, training, and access to credit. During the initial
phase, the focus would be on capacity building. The micro-enterprise subcomponent would deliver credit,
technical assistance, and training to micro-enterprises through NGOs. The small enterprise subcomponent
would provide training, technical assistance, and loan guarantees to banks and other financial
intermediaries to assist them in developing a portfolio of small enterprise loans. Technical assistance and
training for small enterprises would be provided through NGOs, commercial banks, and other financial


                                                       - 2 -

intermediaries.

Component 3- Capacity Building, US$14.3 million
Stakeholder assistance to improve effectiveness in identifying, implementing, and operating development
subprojects. It would help local associations and groups develop and execute subprojects, enhance the
ability to execute sustainable micro-enterprise programs, and provide technical assistance to small
contractors and consulting firms on engineering and construction standards, bids, and the undertaking of
small-scale works. It would also provide for nationwide poverty monitoring.

Project implementation experience and interviews with a wide variety of stakeholders (see Annex 8)
confirm that, with one exception (see below), the components were appropriate and formed an integral part
of the government policy aimed at providing poor communities with better living conditions and
income-generating opportunities.
3.4 Revised Components:
The small enterprise development subcomponent proved problematic from the start (see paragraph 4.2),
was suspended in late-1998, and subsequently was canceled officially. As a result, the total cost of the
second component was reduced from US$27.4 million to US$1.6 million and the IDA allocation from
US$8.9 million to US$1.3 million. The reallocated amount went almost fully to the first component (see
paragraph 5.4 and Annex 2).
Based on the 1999 Mid-Term Review findings and other assessments, in 2000 the SFD consulted closely
with the Bank and added social protection activities and cultural heritage works to its menu, as well as
initiated a pilot effort in four extremely poor and isolated communities aimed at a more comprehensive
approach to development ("cluster" approach). Both decisions were in line with changes introduced by the
more experienced Social Funds elsewhere in recent years.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory, as assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) in 1998. The QAG panel gave the
preparation effort a marginally satisfactory rating, "The project was well conceived and can be commended
for the establishment of an efficient, autonomous, new institution. However, inadequate attention was paid
to the institutional/financial arrangements for the SME credit component. This meant that the conditions for
that component had not yet been met at project appraisal/negotiations. It would have been better to have a
pilot component first on credit and then have a follow-up operation if the pilot is successful. The other two
components of the project are overall satisfactory, although the large technical assistance part will require
close attention during supervision. Social assessment was carried out, but the quality of the end product
and its use during project design were found to be inadequate. Project would have been rated 2
(satisfactory) had the component on credit been better prepared." Panel recommendations were to "rethink
the SME component and to pay special attention to the implementation of the TA aspects of the whole
project." The region responded that the credit component was being piloted but that ample attention would
be paid to both recommendations.

As explained in paragraph 4.2, the small enterprise effort had problems from the start, but in the end, the
micro-enterprise effort was quite successful. As far as the social assessment is concerned, little
documentation on poor communities was available at the time of project preparation, but the project more
than made up for this by funding a range of highly relevant studies (see Annex 7).

Project preparation, facilitated by Japanese PHRD funding and access to a PPF advance, benefited from
various initiatives, including the temporary contracting of an experienced staff member of the Egypt Social
Fund, a number of visits of SFD staff to existing Social Funds, and SFD staff attendance at relevant
international meetings on Social Funds. The Bank project team worked closely with a project preparation



                                                      - 3 -

committee, including representatives from relevant ministries, NGOs, cooperatives, chambers of commerce,
and other stakeholders. There were extensive field visits and two workshops were held.

With the benefit of hindsight, there were two design shortcomings: (i) The preparation and appraisal of the
SME component did not foresee the political difficulty of providing technical assistance to commercial
financial institutions and did not sufficiently assess the financial soundness of some of those institutions.
The small enterprise development subcomponent later was dropped. (ii) The Beneficiary Assessment
carried out at the project preparation stage should have used a more systematic approach to collect data
and to construct a baseline in order to be able to measure the project's impact in the future. The respective
correction was considerable.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. In the first two years, the very difficult work environment induced intensive learning and
experimenting, which in the long run bolstered the project's objectives. The new demand-driven concepts
have proven successful. The community development infrastructure is of good quality and is provided
cheaper and faster than similar works provided by line agencies (see Annex 3); practices, thus costs, have
experienced positive impacts. The SFD indeed functions as a source of innovation in Yemen, with
successful new approaches in different sectors applied on a larger scale by the line agencies and by
continuously adjusting its coverage and approach based on changes in demand and lessons learned.

Income generation was improved through additional temporary and permanent employment provided by the
community works construction activities, as well as through micro-enterprise development activities
channeled through NGOs. As a result, the community development and capacity building components
generated about 2.4 million person-days in temporary employment and about 11,000 additional permanent
jobs. The SFD promoted labor-intensive methods through the use of small contractors and the prohibition
of machine-cut stones, ready-mix concrete, and heavy machinery. The December 2002 consultant report on
Findings from the 1999 National Poverty Survey and the September 2003 consultant report on Key
Findings-Yemen SFD Impact Evaluation attest to the respective impacts. It should be noted that SFD
operation is ongoing, and in mid-2000 a second project complemented the first; therefore, the data of the most
recent study cover more than just the first project. Its conclusions, nonetheless, apply (for further detail see Annex
8). In addition, the SME component was assessed and described in the November 2000 consultant report on
MSE Baseline Survey-Yemen and in the September 2003 report.

Poverty Targeting. The project was a Program of Targeted Intervention. No agreed formula existed during
the first year. In 1998 an index of relative poverty based on data from the 1994 Census and the 1998
Household Budget Survey was used to prioritize target areas, and the SFD designed a two-stage procedure
to allocate funds. Stage One was an allocation by governorate based on population (75 percent) and
aggregate poverty index (25 percent), and Stage Two by district level based on the same criteria. Initially,
this resulted in a regressive allocation of resources. The 1999 data show that "SFD's funding is distributed
very closely in proportion to the total population of each governorate, but it is not proportional to the
burden of poverty carried by each governorate." The study added that "the findings should be interpreted in
the context of Yemen's very high level of poverty and relatively flat income distribution," making "leakage"
to the relatively better-off less problematic than in countries with a skewed income distribution. In 2000 the
allocation formula was adjusted: 70 percent to governorates and districts (half based on population and half
based on a poverty index) and 30 percent to supply-driven special programs and for socially marginalized
groups. Poverty targeting improved substantially.




                                                          - 4 -

As shown in Table 1, the data from the second study (2003) show improvements, with a strongly
progressive allocation of resources by level of household poverty. A high proportion of SFD resources is
benefiting the poorest households, with 17 percent going to the poorest decile, 31 percent to the poorest
quintile, and 44 percent to the poorest three deciles. This surpasses other Social Funds where the analysis
was carried out and is especially impressive in Yemen because of the previous regressive allocation and the
high level of poverty across the country appreciably making the targeting of relatively poor households
more difficult. It should also be noted that these results was consistent across subproject types, except for
microcredit.

                                   Table 1. Household Level Targeting Outcome*
      Poverty       Population           Resources          Population      Resources
       Decile        (Percent)           (Percent)       (Accumulated) (Accumulated)
          1             10.0                  16.6              10.0          16.6
          2             10.0                  14.5              20.0          31.1
          3             10.0                  12.6              30.0          43.7
          4             10.0                  10.7              40.0          54.4
          5             10.0                  11.4              50.0          65.8
          6             10.0                  7.4               60.0          73.2
          7             10.0                  8.2               70.0          81.4
          8             10.0                  8.3               80.0          89.7
          9             10.0                  6.0               90.0          95.7
          10            10.0                  4.3              100.0         100.0

                      *Source: Key Findings - Yemen SFD Impact Evaluation.


As for microcredit, the SFD initially focused on lending only. Since best practices show that the poorest of
the poor benefit more from saving services, they were introduced successfully in the 2000. Over time, the
average loan size of the lending services decreased, showing an increase in the depth of poverty targeting.

Sector Impact. The SFD provided a great number of subprojects, mainly in education, health, water
supply, and rural roads (see paragraph 4.2). A substantial and increasing sectoral impact resulted: between
1998 and 2001 total SFD country investment expenditures in education and health increased from 3.5
percent and 1.3 percent to 19.5 percent and 8.4 percent, respectively. Data from the studies showed that
these four sectors had the most beneficiaries; together they generated 79 percent of all direct beneficiaries,
97 percent if environmental subprojects are included. Indirect beneficiaries only add 19 percent to the
number of direct beneficiaries. Gender distribution showed more or less equal shares, except for education,
where the female percentage is still below par. Sector-specific findings are listed below:

Education: The SFD impact on the education sector has been highly satisfactory. The 1999 data show that
by the end of 1999 the "program already had a clearly positive impact on girls' enrollment and
grade-for-age attainment in primary education. In the beneficiary communities, girls' enrollment rates were
almost 20 percent higher than in the comparison group, up from 41 percent to 48 percent." The 2003 data
confirm that, as a result of the project, the number of students increased by 29 percent, with the highest
increase in female students, 38 percent. The number of classrooms increased 12 percent in general and 29
percent for female-student classrooms. The average class size rose by 38 percent though only 8 percent for
female students. And, the proportion of girls enrolled increased from 42 percent in 1999 to 56 percent in
2003. Over the same period, male student enrollment increased from 76 percent to 78 percent. As a result,
for all students, enrollment went up from 60 percent to 68 percent, confirming the major impact of the SFD
on this important point.




                                                            - 5 -

Health: The SFD impact on the health sector has been satisfactory. The first study's findings regarding the
impact on health were ambiguous. A very positive impact was recorded on the vaccination status of
children in the beneficiary communities but was not matched by a measurable increase in the take-up of
curative medical services in the case of illness. The latter was consistent with the Ministry of Health
building facilities but not supporting or using them and caused a policy shift to secure support and use. The
2003 data show that in the completed health facilities the proportion of male and female patients who
received curative health care services for illnesses rose from 56 percent to 70 percent.

Water Supply: The SFD impact on the water sector was highly satisfactory. The subprojects, on average,
benefited 9.8 communities; the number of persons covered increased from 1,251 to 3,251 per subproject;
and the number of covered households increased from 109 to 328. The proportion of households with tap
water in their dwelling increased by 23 percent, replacing cisterns with or without hand pumps, and wells
and dams off the premises. The subprojects also led to a clear increase in the per-capita consumption of
water, frequency of supply, and time and effort gained by those who fetch water off the premises.

Feeder Roads: The SFD impact on the feeder roads sector was highly satisfactory. The 2003 data showed
that subprojects, on average, served 19.5 communities and about 17,000 people and had a positive impact
on travel times and costs, both declining by 40 percent on average. A sharp increase in the number of trips
per day, on average 180 percent, reflects in large part additional visits to market local products in town.

Microcredit: The SFD impact on the MF sector is satisfactory. The small enterprise development activities
were dropped, but the microcredit outcome was positive. Before the SFD started operations, there was no
formal microfinance sector in Yemen. Informal microfinance was limited to supplier-credit, and
moneylenders were and are virtually nonexistent for religious reasons. The SFD helped to establish the
foundation of an emerging microfinance industry and to create awareness among policymakers on issues
such as interest rates, sustainability, and best practices. In the early years, the SFD mainly focused on
experimenting with different microfinance models, thus creating a working knowledge base. Recently, the
UN Capital Development Fund selected the SFD as its partner to implement the Micro Start program,
which has been highly successful worldwide supporting "breakthrough" microfinance organizations. GTZ
and KfW have also started discussing possible cooperation with the SFD.

Capacity Building: All facets of the project were greatly affected by the capacity building efforts. The start
was slow going: the demand-driven, community-based concept was completely new to the country, and
staff at the SFD and in-country NGOs had little or no experience. Stakeholders were trained while capacity
was being built among beneficiary communities, participating NGOs, contractors, and central government
officials (see paragraph 4.2); in brief, subject knowledge kept evolving. Training also covered operation
needs, maintenance of completed works, and handling by subproject committees, e.g., parents and
water-user committees, and was later expanded to cover central government agencies.

These positive assessments were confirmed by the participants at the stakeholder meeting held in Sana'a in
September 2003 (see Annex 9), which was attended by community representatives, NGOs, line agencies,
and local councils, including a great number of women. The overall assessment of SFD objectives and
performance was positive. Issues of concern were the remaining weaknesses in community training and
women's participation, and the coordination with central government line agencies and increasingly with
local councils to ensure adequate operation and maintenance of completed facilities.

Sector Policies: The SFD works in close association with relevant sector agencies and has helped to
introduce new concepts of community participation and subproject operation and maintenance. Into the
project cycle, the SFD initiated innovative, NGO-based social program activities dealing with the needs of


                                                      - 6 -

the most vulnerable groups. The project has had a positive impact on the evolving decentralization efforts
aimed at establishing the roles of governorate and district councils and in helping the line agencies improve
designs and technical standards. All of these activities should assist in strengthening the government's
poverty approach. The project's impact on sector policies is thus rated substantial.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Components 1 and 3, Highly Satisfactory; Component 2, Satisfactory.

Project Component 1. Community Development. Highly Satisfactory.

                                                   Table 2. Number and Amount of Subprojects by Sector*
           Sector                     Number                       Number                         Amount                       Amount
                                   (Projected at                  (Achieved)            (Projected in US$M) (Achieved in US$M)
                                    Appraisal)                                                                                     **
 Education                                                              727                                                         46.1
 Health                                                                 136                                                           7.1
 Water Supply                                                           164                                                         12.6
 Environment                                                              21                                                         4.3
 Rural Roads                                                              15                                                         1.8
 Integrated                                                                 1                                                        0.0
Intervention
 Cultural Heritage                                                          6                                                        0.9
 Special Needs                                                             16                                                        3.9
Groups
 Total                                      2,056                      1,086                           38.3                        62.9 **
Source: *SFD MIS. **The SFD MIS does not provide for separate data on the cost of works and goods contracts by sector needed in this table; thus,
the data shown in the last column include training. Paragraph 10 provides data on the cost of contracts for works, goods and services for all project
activities.


Clearly, the figures show a dichotomy. The number of completed subprojects was 53 percent of the number
projected at appraisal, and the disbursed amount was 164 percent of the amount projected. This reflects an
average subproject cost of US$58,000, instead of US$19,000 projected at appraisal. The higher subproject
cost can be explained largely by an early decision by the SFD, in agreement with the Bank, to give priority
to larger facilities covering more than one community, resulting in 2.4 million beneficiaries instead of
950,000 (see Annex 1). Another factor was the decision to implement relatively high-quality infrastructure,
reducing the need for early maintenance expenditures, which curtailed the number of smaller subprojects.
Since both the number and cost of the completed subprojects are reasonable, both by local and international
standards, it is evident that the figures used at appraisal (and set out in Annex 1 of the PAD) were
unrealistic.

Specific Sector Information is given below:

Education: There were 727 education subprojects reaching approximately 600,000 students directly, of
whom 43 percent were female. They were mainly for the construction and rehabilitation of school buildings
and other facilities in basic education. Data from the Ministry of Education's education census were used to
select the priority schools; SFD field staff verified the actual conditions in the selected schools. A
GIS-based database was supported by the SFD and reflected existing educational facilities, completed in
2002. It was made available to other subsector parties. Parent maintenance committees were established for
all school subprojects and were effective in 63 percent of the schools. A pilot program has now been started
in four schools for more comprehensive capacity building. The 2003 impact evaluation found that there



                                                                      - 7 -

were some community complaints about the quality of construction materials and lack or low quality of
doors or fences; the study also showed low teacher absenteeism and a high level of parental involvement.

Health: There were 136 health subprojects reaching 650,000 people. Establishing new health services in
deprived areas was the initial goal but was expanded to included expansion and improvement of training
facilities. The policy shift led the SFD to focus on the rehabilitation and equipment of existing health
facilities. Interventions in new areas were phased; medical services started in temporary premises with the
SFD providing minimal equipment, and only starting construction after those services were functioning.

The 2003 impact evaluation found that about half of the completed health facilities had no access to water
in the building or compound. In addition, 38 percent of the clinics had no access to electricity, neither the
net nor a generator. Lack of staffing was seen as an issue, but, when assigned, staff absenteeism was
relatively low. Of the available equipment, 83 percent was deemed to be in good condition. Health
committees were established for all health subprojects, only two-thirds of the clinics had effective health
committees.

Water Supply: There were 164 water supply subprojects benefiting about 600,000 people. They were
mainly in rural areas. To avoid depletion of ground water, they used surface water resources. Because
mechanized systems proved expensive to operate, were risky in the absence of regulations on the digging of
boreholes, and were unlikely to be sustainable, the SFD shifted to nonmechanized systems during
implementatioin. The SFD designed a special program for water harvesting systems in order to increase
water supply during the dry season (rehabilitation of traditional cisterns and construction of new ones). At
the same time, water quality was improved through fencing of cisterns and the introduction of sand filters
and hand pumps.

The impact evaluation found that 72 percent of the installed pumps were still in good condition. Payment
for water was arranged in 42 percent of newly completed works. More than four-fifths of the subprojects
had effective community water committees. Some completed subprojects cited in the report stated that
communities identified water leakage, shortage or bad quality of cement, and design problems.

Feeder Roads: The 15 feeder road and street pavement subprojects were mainly in poor areas and benefited
about 300,000 people.They used labor-intensive methods and required the establishment of a road user
committee, as well as a maintenance plan. The 2003 impact evaluation mentioned that, for some completed
subprojects, communities found roads too narrow, delays in implementation by the contractor, and design
problems.

Environment: The 21 environmental protection subprojects included sanitation networks targeting poor
urban and semi-urban areas, awareness activities, garbage collection, and terrace rehabilitation. Pilot
activities provided for appropriate technology treatment plants, mostly oxidation ponds or septic tanks,
including the establishment of wetlands in some of the urban and semi-urban areas to re-use treated water
for agricultural purposes. In some urban areas with sufficient treatment capacity, new networks were
connected to the main sewerage network, in cooperation with local authorities, such as the National Water
and Sanitation Authority.

Special Needs Groups: As of 2000, the SFD had completed 16 subprojects aimed at improving facilities
and services for the disabled, children-at-risk (orphans, children in conflict with the law, street children,
children of imprisoned women), women-at-risk (women in prison or coming out of prison), and the socially
marginalized (mentally ill, elderly, returnees, shanty dwellers). Interventions were decided based on the
capacity of the implementing organization, the priority of the targeted population group, and the prospects


                                                    - 8 -

of sustainability. This subcomponent was affected especially by the implementing agencies' lack of
capacity.

Cultural Heritage: This activity was added in 2000. The six subprojects were all located in Sana'a and
included gardens and street pavements in the "old city" as well as the expansion and restoration of the
National Museum. The subprojects focused upon creating employment for local artisans and using local
materials and traditional techniques. They also aimed at encouraging a new generation of artisans to
specialize in the traditional techniques of rehabilitating old buildings.

Integrated Interventions: The ongoing pilot program in four different geographic areas also started in 2000
and aims at testing a more integrated ("cluster") approach to increase the impact of SFD interventions. This
includes the establishment of development committees, intensive training of those committees in planning
and implementation, the formulation of development plans by the committees, and the implementation of
successive subprojects according to agreed priorities. Achieving genuine women's participation was a
considerable effort.

Technical Quality: Apart from some minor quality issues mentioned above, the subprojects were generally
of good quality and well operated and maintained, although this varied by sector. Operation and
maintenance is an explicit requirement in the framework agreement signed between the beneficiary
community, the SFD, and the responsible line agency prior to subproject implementation, but line agency
follow-up varied considerably. Completed education facilities were generally managed well by the Ministry
of Education, but completed health facilities received little attention from the Ministry of Health. As
mentioned above, this caused the SFD to limit new health subprojects to those evidencing clear community
commitment. The operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation subprojects was always the
responsibility of the communities. The latter was facilitated by increasingly effective community training
(see below), focusing on both technical and financial training, including agreement on fees for long-term
sustainability of the completed works.

In more recent years, the SFD also introduced, on a pilot basis, the contracting of subprojects by the
communities themselves, thus giving them responsibility for the full subproject cycle. This effort is still
ongoing and not yet replicated on a large scale. Similarly, the SFD has started to adapt its procedures to
allow for an increased role to be played by local governments, following the introduction of the Local
Authorities Law in 2000 and the subsequent election of Governorate and District Local Councils. However,
this is subject to training of councillors in development concepts.

Project Component 2. Small and Micro Enterprise Development. Satisfactory, despite the cancellation
of the small enterprise development activities. (i) The SFD created awareness and understanding among
policymakers of the importance of microfinance and best practices, (ii) the SFD developed microfinance
models appropriate for the country, (iii) progress was made to build sustainable intermediaries, but more
time and capacity-building efforts are required, and (iv) a large number of borrowers and voluntary savers
were reached.

When the project started, there was no experience with microfinance in the country. The SFD had not only
to build capacity of microfinance intermediaries, but also its own capacity. Eligible intermediaries received
an SFD loan for on-lending (instilling financial discipline right from the start) and a grant for operational
cost coverage until break-even.




                                                       - 9 -

                                                                     Active Clients per Type of Clients


                        8000
                                    Microfinance borrowers who also save

                        7000        Microfinance borrowers only

                                    Microfinance savers only

                        6000        IGP borrowers


                        5000



                        4000



                        3000



                        2000



                        1000



                            0
                                     1997                 1998              1999                2000                 2001               2002               2003




An analysis of microfinance clients over time, shown in the above graph, illustrates the learning curve of
the SFD and a shift from Income-Generating-Programs (IGPs) and credit-only programs in the early years,
to savings-and credit oriented programs in later years. The initial focus on IGPs was because IGPs
appeared "easier" and "cheaper" to implement. However, as shown in the graph below, the implementation
of IGPs proved to be more expensive and less sustainable than the development of microfinance programs.
It was extremely difficult to find eligible and reliable implementation partners ­ usually cooperatives.


                                                                T o t a l C o s t s p e r D i r e c t B e n e f i c i a r y

                  T o t a l C o s t s i n c l u d e : G r a n t s t o M F I s f o r o p e r a t i o n a l c o s t s , s a l a r i e s S F D a n d f o r e i g n t e c h n i c a l
                                                                                      a s s i s t a n c e

                 1 0 0
                                                                                                                            MF plus IGP Direct Beneficiaries

                  9 0                                                                                                       MF Direct Beneficiaries Only
                                                                                                                            IGP Direct Beneficiaries Only

                  8 0


                  7 0


                  6 0                                                                                 \


                  5 0
             USD

                  4 0


                  3 0


                  2 0


                  1 0


                    0
                                1 9 9 8                   1 9 9 9                 2 0 0 0                   2 0 0 1                   2 0 0 2                  2 0 0 3


In the early years of its operation, the SFD focused on the development of two microfinance intermediaries,
but those experienced quite a few problems. Eventually, one of these intermediaries developed well, and has
now been selected by UNCDF "Micro Start" as a break-through organization with good prospects of
becoming financially sustainable within the next three years.

The PAD had projected 28,500 microentrepreneurs to be assisted, but this was not achieved. The
microenterprise programs together served 13,308 borrowers. In addition, over time, voluntary savings were
introduced as a financial service for women (who do not necessarily wish to borrow). As of June 30, 2003,



                                                                                          - 10 -

over 3,000 women are actively saving and the number is increasing rapidly. These women consider savings
a financial service that they need very much; they do not necessarily want to borrow ( another 3,000
borrowers were served who participated in programs that were closed down). Furthermore, 5,235
microentrepreneurs were trained, more than double the number projected at appraisal.

Project Component 3. Capacity Building. Highly Satisfactory, although the activities got off to a slow
start. As shown in table 3, the number of training activities for a range of stakeholders was impressive and
far exceeded the appraisal numbers. Similarly, the cost was much higher: US$24.9 million (including
US$7.7 million for the SFD operating cost and fixed assets), compared to the projected amount of US$14.3
million.

                                         Table 3. Training Activities*
                     Entity                  Number - Projected            Number - Achieved
          NGOs/Cooperatives                             82                          197
          Community Groups                              81                          131
          Microentrepreneurs                        2,500                         5,235
          Small Enterprise Owners                     645                      canceled
          Financial Institutions                        9                      canceled
          Contractors                                  30                           100

        *Source: SFD MIS.

The approach to community capacity building was developed gradually. It started with providing training
to SFD staff and consultants in participatory development and methods to identify priorities in
collaboration with the communities, the establishment of local community committees, and their training in
subproject implementation and operation, including basic finance and management. In total, about 1,000
community committees were established and received training; 131 committees received more intensive
training, including four for the integrated pilot programs and eight on health and environmental issues for
the water harvesting schemes.

The NGOs and CBOs that received training were selected based on agreed criteria, giving priority to those
that were successful in securing SFD funding for subprojects. In addition, priority was given to CBOs in
the poorest areas, which would not otherwise be able to prepare subproject proposals. Training depended
on the specific subproject needs, but almost all subprojects received training in bookkeeping and resource
management. During this first phase of the SFD operation, priority was given to training of trainers,
refinement of training methods, development of training modules, and the implementation of a select
number of well-defined capacity-building efforts. In addition, organizational support was provided to
increase the capacities of intermediary structures; 197 NGOs were assisted through training and/or material
support, and 1,155 NGO staff members (of whom 618 women) received training in a range of subjects
(e.g., literacy programs, handicraft production, home economics, and basic accounting for agricultural
cooperatives).

Private consultants and contractors received major training: 100 engineers in design and supervision of
water harvesting schemes, 45 engineers in appropriate design standards for feeder roads, 22 engineers in
design and supervision of sanitation subprojects, 18 professionals in health education for water supply
subprojects, 50 consultants in community participation techniques, and 25 consultants in medical
equipment.

Government agencies too received training. The Ministry of Education received support for its literacy
activities, and the Ministry of Health for health personnel (150 traditional midwives and 160 scholarships



                                                     - 11 -

for paramedics in the Health Training Institute), on management and technical issues, as well as on
pro-poor cost recovery systems and outreach to remote areas. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor
received a variety of support, in particular to its Social Welfare Fund (organization and management of
cash transfer programs) and the National Program for Community Development and Productive Families..

The component has also funded poverty monitoring and impact assessment studies to ensure that SFD
resources were being used to effectively reduce poverty, with a major emphasis on the needs and
participation of women. It funded the housing, equipping, and staffing of the SFD, which enabled the
establishment of an organization with a unique ability to improve poverty-related issues. Staff did receive
ample training. To summarize, the component started slowly but was actively pursued and now covers a
wide variety of relevant policy and operational activities. The outcome was positive.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Because of the difficulty of quantifying the benefits of some of the activities, such as health and nonformal
education, the PAD did not have a calculation of the economic rate of return for the overall project, but a
cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out, including a study of the cost-effectiveness of the SFD approach
compared with the delivery of services by line agencies. Ex-post, this study did not calculate the net present
value and economic rate of return. However, the study had access to a comparison of SFD and line agency
unit costs, data on the administrative efficiency of the SFD, and the cost per beneficiary, which received
detailed attention during the 1999 mid-term review (see Annex 3). The data confirm that the SFD is an
extremely efficient delivery mechanism when compared with other agencies, with lower unit costs for each
type of infrastructure. The data also show that a relatively small number of staff (128 by June 30, 2003)
have been able to process a substantial program, leading to an administrative overhead of slightly less than
10 percent, a percentage far below the overheads shown by most Social Funds.

Subproject evaluation criteria have evolved over the years, and are described in the Operational Manual.
They cover all relevant economic, financial, and technical aspects, including environmental assessment
criteria. The microcredit activities are covered by their own manual, describing criteria for eligibility of
implementing partners (NGOs and cooperatives), and procedures for program design, appraisal,
implementation, supervision, and reporting.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The SFD revolutionized development work in Yemen. It highlighted the positive impacts of
the participation approach and provided incentives to other line ministries to begin testing with that
approach. The SFD has proven to be a productive, transparent, and cost-effective model that can be
adopted in Yemen if the appropriate circumstances are provided. It is also a flexible mechanism for
implementing small-scale social and economic infrastructure subprojects and for introducing new concepts
of poverty targeting, community participation and responsibility, operation and maintenance of completed
works, as well as microcredit operations, very much relying on non-government sources, mainly NGOs and
the communities themselves. As a result, community development has been brought to the foreground of the
government's poverty reduction agenda, and fostered (i) a service delivery culture, as well as
responsiveness, transparency, and accountability toward communities where there was practically none
prior to the project, (ii) ownership at the community level, and (iii) improved understanding at the central
level of community development and working across sectors.

The central line agencies, both in Sana'a and in the regions, have benefited from the SFD's substantial



                                                    - 12 -

experience with infrastructure, leading to designs better adjusted to the local needs and availability of local
materials. The agencies were also exposed to the SFD's efficient relationship with contractors, local
governments, and communities, including on issues related to procurement, disbursement, environmental
assessment, and operation and maintenance of completed community works. This has been particularly
beneficial to the Ministry of Education, which has seen a considerable drop in its unit costs in recent years,
and has now established a community participation unit. Furthermore, this Ministry, as well as the
Ministries of Health and Social Affairs and Labor, received substantial training support (see paragraph
4.2).

As shown in Table 3, NGOs and cooperatives have received a great deal of explicit and implicit capacity
building, all aimed at having them play a central role in community capacity building. This included in
particular accounting and needs assessment. As a result, both the number and the capacity of local NGOs
has increased substantially over the years.

Community capacity has increased exponentially over the years, and a limited number of communities has
been given full authority for the full subproject cycle. As mentioned above, community training had a slow
start, mainly because it was a new concept and there was no NGO experience at the start. However, the
country's social capital seems to have increased considerably because of the drastic increase in community
participation, from subproject identification to operation and maintenance including an understanding of
their rights and obligations.

Institutional development of microfinance intermediaries is another area where the SFD has achieved
considerable results where it started from a non existent base. Now, a number of intermediaries are well in
their way into applying international standards in their operations.

The local contracting industry and consultants have improved considerably. Contractors were exposed to
the SFD's strict rules on design standards, procurement, and funding, and gained much experience.
Consultants too were associated with various studies, and gained additional experience and knowledge.

The SFD itself was new at the start of the project and has grown into a unique, experienced, efficient,
effective, transparent, and flexible organization that is respected as being fundamental to the social sectors.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Complex Donor Coordination: The Bank played a very positive role in augmenting the number of donors,
all of whom accepted the community-based SFD approach and various of which provided valuable
technical assistance. However, they also had different administrative and financial procedures, which added
to the SFD's burden.

Local Bank Staff Assignment:            As mentioned in the PAD, during the early years of project
implementation, the Bank located its task manager in its Sana'a office, giving him ample opportunity and
time to provide ongoing, hands-on guidance and support, including arranging for a wide range of technical
assistance, which was largely funded by the Bank-managed Dutch and OPEC trust funds. In addition, a
full-time consultant was hired to support the SFD during its establishment and to help with the development
of the Operations Manual, the set-up of the SFD, and design and implementation of the pilot subprojects.
This hands-on support very much helped accelerate project implementation, but also resulted in higher
supervision costs.




                                                     - 13 -

Limited Experience of Intermediary Organizations and Executing Agencies: The capacity of existing
NGOs, CBOs, and cooperatives to play an intermediary support role was extremely limited and required
extensive and intensive training of trainers, slowing down initial project implementation. Also, contractors,
and consultants were not familiar with SFD procurement guidelines. Corrective training was required and
was delivered systematically.

Cultural Constraints: The participatory approach was new to most SFD staff, members of possible
intermediary organizations, local consultants, and relevant line agencies. This too slowed down initial
project implementation.

This applied even more so to the role of women. To deal with this, the SFD decided to mainstream gender
by (i) having female SFD staff or consultants interview women beneficiaries at the subproject identification
stage and (ii) ensuring a substantial percentage of female SFD staff, including at the management level.

Religious Constraints: The use of Islamic finance practices increases costs, since loan officers have to
purchase the goods for the borrower, because the borrower is not allowed to get cash. This increases the
transaction cost and, hence, "interest rate." In some cases, borrowers have started asking for commercial
loans, knowing them to be cheaper. In other cases, the SFD itself tries to start with commercial loans.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
SFD Autonomy: Law Number 10 of 1997 provided substantial operational autonomy for the new SFD,
and the Government did not exert undue political pressure (except on the inclusion of the small enterprise
development subcomponent). It also allowed the SFD to use more efficient disbursement procedures. All of
this helped establish a more efficient and effective organization.

Strong SFD Management: The Government allowed for the recruitment (open competition in selection)
and adequate remuneration of highly qualified individuals; the Government also ensured their continuity.
This is of critical importance in ensuring an efficient and effective operation.

Mixed Cooperation with Line Agencies: Cooperation with line agencies was facilitated by relevant
ministers being members of the SFD Board of Directors. Still, despite written agreements with all relevant
agencies, cooperation in the field was not always ensured. Cooperation with the Ministry of Education has
improved substantially over the years, but cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the water and road
agencies has been disappointing. As a result, the SFD had to do more itself, and also delegate more
responsibilities to the beneficiary communities.

Increasing Cooperation with NGOs: As mentioned above, project implementation was affected by the
weak capacity of NGOs and cooperatives, and the project had to provide for major training and financial
management support to ensure adequate involvement of these organizations. The new law on NGOs,
designed in part with Bank and SFD assistance and passed in 2001, very much facilitates NGO operations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong SFD Management and Staff: The commitment, dedication, and flexibility of SFD management
and staff, including a high percentage of women, have been instrumental in enabling the project to advance
rapidly. To endorse this, management introduced performance-based contracts and provided ample training.


Evolving SFD Organization: The SFD has been receptive to new ideas and lessons learned and has
regularly adjusted its policies and practices, as set out in the Operational Manual, to reflect "best



                                                     - 14 -

practices." The SFD has also been cost-effective, with a very low overhead compared to those in most
other Social Funds. In addition, the SFD established seven field offices with substantial responsibilities,
thus greatly facilitating community-client contact.

Improving Poverty Targeting: As confirmed by the recent Impact Evaluation, the SFD has improved its
poverty targeting over the years.

Strong Cooperation with Donors: The SFD has actively pursued donor funding and been responsive to
donor demands, leading to co-financing by a substantial number of multi- and bilateral organizations.
However, with the great variety of donor reporting requirements, there has been an attached cost.

Strong Cooperation with Other Project Agencies: In 2002, the SFD sponsored the establishment of a
coordination group consisting of all local parties dealing with IDA-supported projects and now has regular
meetings to exchange information on, a.o., project implementation, work procedures, contractor and
consultant performance, and co-financing.

Evolving Management Information System (MIS): The MIS has evolved over the years, and now
connects headquarters with the seven regional offices, thus allowing the SFD to quickly monitor physical
and financial progress. Today it produces readily available progress reports for each donor, component,
and region.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at the equivalent of US$80.0 million. As detailed in
Table 4 and Annex 2, the cost at completion was US$89.4 million, mostly for the Community Development
component.

                                      Table 4. Costs and Financing (US$ million)*
                  Activity                      Total          IDA       Government Community Other Donor
                                                 Cost       Funding         Funding          Funding         Funding***
 Community Development                           62.9          17.2             1.2              6.5             38.0
 Small and Micro- Enterprise Development          1.6           1.3             0.0              0.0             0.3
 Capacity Building and SFD Operating Cost        24.9          11.3             1.8              0.0             11.7
 Total                                           89.4         29.7**            3.1              6.5             50.1
*Figures may not add up due to rounding. **At the time of negotiations, the amount of SDR21.7 million amounted to the
equivalent of US$30.0 million, but US$0.7 million was "lost" due to a change in the SDR/US$ exchange rate. On the other
hand, the SFD "gained" the equivalent of US$0.4 million in interest, which it also invested in the project. ***The Netherlands,
OPEC, Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, European Union, and USA Counter Value Aid Program.

As set out in the table, IDA funded the equivalent of US$29.7 million, the Dutch US$13.6 million, USA
US$6.8 million, OPEC US$6.0 million, and the Arab Fund US$19.5 million. The Government provided the
equivalent of US$3.1 million, a relatively small contribution, but still much more than projected at
appraisal. The beneficiary communities funded US$6.5 million; the latter represents 7.3 percent of total
project cost, or 10.3 percent of the cost of the Community Development component. Community
contributions, excluding the value of land, were in cash or kind (materials, labor), and were supposed to
amount to at least 5 percent for schools, 15 percent for water supply, and 20 percent for sewerage;
however, the percentages are adjustable, depending upon the community's ability to pay. The community
was also expected to commit to adequate funding of operation and maintenance of completed facilities.
The 2003 impact evaluation confirmed substantial community participation, including contributions in
labor or construction materials. Between two-thirds and four-fifths of the communities contributed money,
and the highest contribution in labor was for feeder roads. Community contributions as a percentage of



                                                          - 15 -

completed subproject costs were estimated at 6.9 percent for education, 7.3 percent for health, 16.5 percent
for water supply, and 11.3 percent for rural roads, well above the minimum requirements.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the SFD Organization: The SFD has built up an excellent reputation as an innovative,
transparent, and efficient organization, aimed at providing assistance to poor communities and vulnerable
groups and incorporating the latest techniques of community participation and local government
development. Now a recipient of regular and increasing government funding, continued and ample donor
funding should be ensured for poverty reduction in the years to come, particularly given the SFD's
operating at a relatively low cost. In addition, the increasing capacity of the country's intermediary
organizations, to a large extent because of SFD training, will allow the SFD to delegate more and more to
capable partner organizations, as well as to communities and local governments. The SFD is also providing
increasing support to other central and local government agencies, and thus strengthening its role and
impact as a critically important and long-term actor in the government's poverty reduction and
decentralization efforts.

Sustainability of Subprojects: SFD's track record in sub-projects sustainability is very good and by far the
best in Yemen. The SFD is the only agency that continues to follow up on its sub-projects two years after
funding phases out. The community subprojects are well maintained and operated, benefiting considerably
from Yemen's tradition of strong community organizational structures and major community participation.

It also should be noted that ample attention has been paid to appropriate design standards (e.g., for schools,
designs differ by region; for feeder roads, new standards were developed and agreed upon with the Road
Maintenance Fund, particularly for drainage; and for water supply, mechanical components have been kept
to a minimum to reduce the maintenance burden) and the provision of substantial training in operation and
maintenance, especially for water supply subprojects.

In the case of water supply and rural road subprojects, the 2003 impact evaluation showed some interesting
results. For water, the upgrading of piped systems has led to an increase in operating costs by about 200
percent on average, due to the use and maintenance of electromechanical pumps; however, average revenue
generation quintupled. As a result, there is still a shortfall of, on average, 35 percent of the total cost, as
compared to almost 70 percent in times past. This points to the increasing likelihood of being able to
establish sustainable piped systems.

In addition, the study found that for rural roads 86 percent of the beneficiary communities had signed an
agreement on road maintenance of completed subprojects. In most communities, maintenance follow-up
committees had indeed been established, and in about one-fifth of the communities did the population
contribute funding. Training by the SFD took place for one subproject.

Overall, the project (organization and subprojects) is likely to be sustainable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The SFD will continue to operate on the same basis as before, with increasing community involvement in
all phases of the project cycle and with menus and methodologies adjusted as needed. The government is
expected to continue its support of the SFD as a critically important mechanism in its poverty reduction
efforts. Government resources to the SFD is on the increase. An increasing number of donors are using the
SFD to reach the country's poor communities and vulnerable groups, including IDA through the ongoing
Second SFD project (Cr. 3353-YEM) and the proposed Third SFD project.




                                                     - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank-designed activities benefited from funding under a Japanese PHRD grant and a
PPF, allowing for the start of pilot activities, which provided both the government and the Bank with
substantial relevant experience. In addition, preparation benefited from the experience gained by the Egypt
Social Fund (ESF), including the assignment of an experienced ESF staff member to the SFD. The Bank
team also realized from the beginning that a "hand-holding" approach will be needed to ensure the
appropriate set-up of the SFD, which was followed during the design. This performance rating would have
been higher were it not for some of the quality-at-entry weaknesses flagged by QAG, including the lack of
hard data on developing the small enterprise subcomponent and the lack of baseline data coming out of the
Beneficiary Assessment. In addition, as mentioned in paragraph 4.2, some of the appraisal estimates
(particularly the figures in Annex 1 of the PAD) were unrealistic.

7.2 Supervision:

Highly Satisfactory. The QAG's Quality of Supervision Assessment, carried out in 2000, gave this a 1
(highly satisfactory) rating. The assessment noted: "The quality of supervision was judged of a high
standard on many aspects. Particularly noteworthy was the intensity of supervision, from both headquarters
and the field, consistently encompassing all required areas; the adoption of an action plan for financial
management and procurement capacity strengthening; excellent documentation; and efforts to mobilize
additional funding for capacity building. These activities were accomplished through close and intensive
cooperation of staff and management at headquarters and the local office, and arrangements for substantial
complementary technical assistance funded by other donors. Although the panel notes that the performance
indicators could, at this stage, have been somewhat more outcome-oriented, particularly in terms of social
and economic outcomes, it is appreciated that the project was designed in 1997, and that the state of the art
of assessment and monitoring of social investment funds has improved since then. However, the progress
on social development outcomes should be documented. It is also understood that the follow-up project is
incorporating a more effective approach to impact monitoring." The QAG suggested, "as already decided
by the task team in the context of the follow-up project, agreement on more detailed monitoring indicators,
including, e.g., gender, could have provided both client and Bank with better information on effectiveness
of targeting and activities, in turn improving project implementation."

The task team continued to provide intensive supervision and to arrange for technical assistance (partly
funded by donors grants) on a range of issues, including microfinance, operational procedures,
procurement, community contracting, MIS, and impact studies. It arranged for the immediate suspension
and subsequent cancellation of the small enterprise subcomponent when it became clear that this could not
be successfully implemented. It also followed up on the QAG's recommendations regarding impact
monitoring and arranged for the comprehensive impact evaluation studies mentioned in paragraph 4.1 and
Annex 8.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Highly Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The government and the SFD were instrumental in preparing the project and helped establish
the SFD through the approval of Law No.10 of 1997, which allowed for the SFD's exemption from some
common but cumbersome government regulations.




                                                     - 17 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Although, as mentioned above, government counterpart funding has always been minimal and
was not provided during the first two years, the government did provide SFD management with substantial
autonomy and allowed it to operate with relatively little political pressure. The government also followed
up on SFD initiatives with NGO participation and on decentralization. Furthermore, the government
allowed for the recruitment of highly qualified and well-paid staff.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Highly Satisfactory. The Social Fund for Development has developed into a unique, transparent, effective,
and efficient organization, playing a critically important role in the country's poverty reduction efforts. This
has been achieved by using an approach that depends on community demand, as expressed by the
communities with the help of NGOs. The approach is also adjusting in line with evolving local and
international knowledge on Social Fund policies and operations.

It also should be noted that the SFD has been increasingly careful in the management of its fiduciary
responsibilities. A recent procurement post review found no major issues, apart from (i) some lack of
records for works contracting and (ii) some inadequate evaluations of consultant selection, but both only
during the early years of the project, and fully corrected since 2000. The review also found that the SFD's
central staff was fully qualified but recommended further training branch officers, which would be of even
more importance given the proposed build-up of community contracting.

Financial management has been quite too, both as far as the SFD's financial reporting and its external
auditing is concerned.

Environmental assessment, initially, did not receive any attention. This too was corrected in 2000, and the
SFD technical staff is now well versed in the Bank's environmental assessment guidelines.

The 2003 impact evaluation showed that the overall duration of the subproject production process was 576
days, comprising 221 days from community request to committee approval, 16 days from committee
approval to contract with community, 102 days from contract with community to construction contract,
and 237 days from construction contract to completion. There were some sector differences, with shorter
periods for water supply and health subprojects and longer periods for feeder roads. Even more interesting
was that this time period has increased substantially over time, from 282 days in 1997 to more than 600
days in 2000 and 2002. This no doubt reflects the increasing number of subproject requests awaiting
processing, the larger size of the subprojects mentioned before, the increasing number of fiduciary issues
the SFD has to deal with, and the increasing focus on up-front community training, and is acceptable by
international standards.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The country is extremely poor and complex, also politically, but the government and the SFD
were able to agree upon and implement a transparent and essential approach to community development.

8. Lessons Learned

This intensive assessment benefited from substantial work, in particular the Impact Evaluation Report and
the Stakeholder Meeting. In addition, the project received considerable donor scrutiny over the years, and
this is reflected in the observations mentioned above and in the lessons mentioned below:

A. PROJECT DESIGN
Project Concept: The quite positive outcome of SFD activities, both in quantitative and qualitative terms,
confirms that even in a country with such human and financial capacity constraints as Yemen the Social



                                                    - 18 -

Fund concept can work in an effective and efficient manner.

Poverty Targeting and Monitoring: At the start of the project, the country's poverty data were far from
reliable. Although the SFD had an agreed system of regional targeting as of 1998 (see paragraph 4.1), its
management preferred to use data on the lack of services in each client community. This did not help
establish a progressive allocation to the governorates and districts in accordance with their level of poverty.
Assisted by various studies on project impact, this was corrected in 2000. In hindsight, the Beneficiary
Assessment that was carried out at the project preparation stage should have used a more systematic
approach to collect data and to construct a baseline.
Credit Operations: The preparation and appraisal of the small and microenterprise component did not
foresee the political difficulty of providing technical assistance to commercial financial institutions and did
not sufficiently assess the financial soundness of some of those institutions. The small enterprise
development subcomponent was later dropped. In addition, looking back, before making loans the SFD
should have invested much more time and effort in the training of financial intermediary staff, as well as on
systems, procedures, and the MIS. Savings services, furthermore, are essential to increasing the number of
female clients.

B. PROJECT OPERATION
Community Participation and Contracting: Community participation in all phases of the subproject cycle
was a major element of the initial SFD design, but implementation by the communities and training by
SFD-funded NGOs proved more time-consuming than expected. This experience shows that full
community participation leads to better subproject quality and lower costs, and that the prospects for
proper maintenance of completed works are better too. It should also be noted that increasing community
involvement in the subproject cycle, with the need for substantial training, has been a large factor in the
more than doubling of the average time of subproject identification through implementation.

Government Agency Cooperation: Despite written agreements with the line agencies on adequate
operation and maintenance, these agencies mostly were unable to deliver, particularly when it came to
routine and major maintenance. Consequently, communities had to be trained, at least in carrying out
routine maintenance and in learning how to obtain government support for operations and major repairs.
The success of support provided by the SFD to central government agencies and officials depends primarily
on their interest and cooperation (provision of incentives). It worked reasonably well with the Ministry of
Education, and was inadequate in the case of the Ministry of Health.

Unit and Subproject Costs: The introduction of proper technical design and procurement requirements by
the SFD led to increasing competition among contractors and lower unit costs for basic infrastructure, such
as school construction. At the same time, the average subproject cost was about three times the cost
estimated at appraisal, due to a decision to build larger facilities of longer-term quality, and to cover bigger
geographical areas.

C. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Operational Autonomy and Management Implications: Because of its ability to function with
considerable autonomy, the SFD was able to quickly establish its credibility as a neutral and professional
outfit. This was possibly the most important point in ensuring the project's successful outcome. The
recruitment of highly qualified and well-paid managers and staff was also a critically important condition
for the success of the SFD. The willingness of these managers to pursue the latest local and international
knowledge on Social Fund policies and practices helped establish a progressive and flexible mechanism.

Gender Sensitization: The initial consideration of a separate gender office in the SFD, copied from the


                                                     - 19 -

Egypt Social Fund, was rejected in favor of "mainstreaming" the gender issue. A gender sensitization
workshop for the SFD was held by an international consultant, a substantial number of female managers
was appointed, and a specialist was assigned in the SFD to screen all subproject proposals on this issue. In
addition, each regional office had to recruit female staff to ensure that this aspect was fulfilled.

Bank Staff Resources and Technical Assistance: The Bank proved willing to deliver on the PAD
statement that project staff should be assigned to the field office; this provided the SFD with quick and
ongoing access to Bank supervision and technical assistance, although this did have budgetary implications.
The availability of Bank-managed technical assistance allowed for easy and fast access when and where
needed.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Yemen is among the least developed countries in the Middle East with an estimated GDP per capita of
US$314 in 1995. In the same year, it was estimated that 19 percent of the population lived in poverty,
meaning that 2.6 million persons had insufficient resources to meet their basic food and nonfood
requirements. Strengthening the nexus between growth and poverty reduction is crucial for the long-term
development of Yemen. The establishment of the SFD is one of a series of social protection measures that
the Government of Yemen has adopted toward achieving these objectives.

Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
The outcome of the SFD performance in implementing subprojects is highly satisfactory, as well as of the
financiers' performance. The success of the SFD is due in large part to its flexibility and adaptability, as
well as to its motivated national professionals. A number of lessons were learned from the implementation
of the first phase and have been taken into account in SFD Phase II. These can be summarized as follows:

·        The arrangement of the SFD to be managed outside the traditional government entities tends to be
         more efficient and flexible in getting quick results in the field and in serving communities. The SFD
         was able to recruit on a contractual basis and motivate competent and dedicated staff.
·        The effectiveness of the SFD was reinforced by the "contracting approach" that was adopted,
         which has led to formal contracts with a wide range of actors: community-based organizations,
         NGOs, government agencies, local consultants, small contractors, etc... Transparent and clear
         contract procedures, as well as quick payments, are essential elements of a cost-efficient
         implementation of subprojects.
·        The SFD has always attempted to implement best practices in the different sectors and subsectors
         in which it is operating, constantly learning from implemented subprojects.
·        Communities have been placed at the center of project activities as primary actors responsible for
         project identification, implementation, operation, and maintenance. In this respect, establishing
         Branch Offices during Phase I was integral to enabling communities to present and defend their
         requests at the local level.
·        To tackle poverty and reach remote impoverished districts, the SFD has shown the importance of
         developing multipronged target mechanisms.
·        The SFD is well aware that coordination with key line ministries and regional authorities is
         important to achieve a lasting impact, to exchange experiences, and to adapt to new institutional
         and sectoral reforms.
·        In a project comprising several components of a different nature, one should expect some
         components to work better than others.
·        To run a complex Social Fund project that is funded by seven donors, a well-designed Management



                                                     - 20 -

        and Information System (MIS) is of tremendous importance to monitoring implementation and
        reporting back to the different donors.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Consultants funded by the European Commission completed a Mid-Term Review report in April 2003. The
report was quite positive on the SFD's achievements and made a range of useful recommendations
regarding targeting of the poor, improving the quality of subprojects, promoting gender issues, and
improving the functioning of community committees. On capacity building, the report made
recommendations on emphasizing vision development, strategic planning, and financial and institutional
sustainability of NGOs for women, enhancing the income-generating capacity of women, exchanging visits
between good practice organizations and less mature ones, and introducing innovative pilots and
gender-responsive planning at the community level, community mobilization and organization, and training
for effective and efficient implementation, operation, and maintenance. On credit activities, the report
recommended that this continue to be supported by the donors and that the SFD arrange for an in-depth
study to assess the feasibility of alternative and proven methodologies. Finally, the report referred to the
importance of ensuring close coordination with the local governments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Table 2 in paragraph 4.2 gave numbers of completed subprojects by sector; however, it could only give the
total cost of works and goods. Since the SFD MIS only gives cost data for the combined works, goods, and
services by subproject and thus sector, the sector breakdown could not be provided. The following table
gives the breakdown of the total project cost by sector:

                              Sector                       Cost in US$         Percentage
                                                            million
             Education                                        46.15                 56
             Water Supply                                     12.60                 15
             Health                                           7.09                  9
             Environment                                      4.35                  5
             Special Needs                                    3.90                  5
             Micro-Credit                                     2.71                  3
             Organizational Support/Training                  2.17                  3
             Feeder Roads                                     1.81                  2
             Cultural Heritage                                0.92                  1
             Integrated Intervention                          0.01                  0
             Total                                            89.42                100




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
A. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAM SUB-PROJECTS
1. Number of Sub-projects                     190                                     1,086
2. Number of Beneficiaries                    950,000 (of whom at least 20% female)   2,408,306 (of whom 49% female)

3. Target Average Cost ($)                     30                                      26
B. MICRO-ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
LOANS
1. Number of Microentrepreneurs               28,500                                  16,308
2. Target Average Cost ($)                    100                                     NA
C. SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT
LOANS
1. Number of Enterprises                      2,150                                   Dropped
2. Target Average Cost (4)                    20,000                                  Dropped
D. CAPACITY BUILDING
1. Number of NGOs/Cooperatives Trained (      82                                      197
2. Number of Community Groups Trained         81                                      131
3. Number of Micro-entrepreneurs Trained      2,500                                   5,235
4. Number of Small Enterprise Owners          645                                     Dropped
Trained
5. Number of Financial Institutions Trained in 9                                      Dropped
Small Enterprise Lending
6. Improved portfolio performance through     80                                      more than 90
repayment of loans (in %)

7. Skills developed by small contractors to    60                                     100
carry out SFD-financed labor intensive works.

 8. NGOs and communities carrying out
projects financed by SFD.                      183                                    263


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
PROJECT OUTPUT:
1. SFD operational and fully staffed by       yes                                     yes
September 1997.




COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT:
1. 924 social infrastructure sub-projects      924                                    907
completed.
2. 1,132 economic infrastructure              1,132                                   179
sub-projects completed.
SMALL AND MICROENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT:
1. Training delivered in functional aspects of 2                                      2
delivering micro-enterprise credit to NGOs by
July 1998
CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT:
1. Training provided to community groups in    91                                     131
sub-project proposal design, implementation
and O&M.




                                                              - 22 -

2. NGOs trained in design, implementation,     82               197
and supervision.
3. Training modules provided to small          30               0
contractors on issues related to labor
intensive works.

 4. Training financial institutions involved in  9              Dropped
credit provision to small enterprises.

  5. NGOs received TA and training in            5              15
establishing microfinance programs to assist
microenterprises.




1End of project
(Projected in PAD (Annex 1)




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
                         Component                                 US$ million      US$ million
1. Community Development                                              38.30              62.90               164

2. Small and Micro Enterprise Development                             27.40                1.60                6
3. Capacity Building and SFD Operating Cost                           12.90              24.90               193

Total Baseline Cost                                                   78.60              89.40
  Physical Contingencies                                               0.40                0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                  1.00                0.00
                           Total Project Costs                        80.00              89.40
                     Total Financing Required                         80.00              89.40
Part of the third component is the operating cost, which was financed under the Dutch TF and IDA Credit
No.2953-YEM.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              a
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                   b          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                               0.00               5.30             5.30            10.70          21.30
                                       (0.00)            (1.30)           (3.80)           (0.00)         (5.10)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00             4.00             6.80          10.80
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.00)           (0.00)         (4.00)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00            18.60            27.00          45.60
(including credit, TA and              (0.00)            (0.00)          (18.60)           (0.00)         (18.60)
training, and PPF)
4.Miscellaneous                (       0.00               0.00             2.30             0.00           2.30
incremental operating cost)
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.30)           (0.00)         (2.30)
    Total                              0.00               5.30            30.20            44.50          80.00
                                       (0.00)            (1.30)          (28.70)           (0.00)         (30.00)
a. IDA-financed US$3.80 million for Works category through "Other" procurement method is for community
contracting.
  b. IDA-financed US$4 million for Goods category through "Other" procurement method is for International
Shopping (US$3.6 million for equipment) and National Shopping (US$0.4 million for vehicles).



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                   2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                               0.68              16.46            0.95            44.83          62.92
                                       (0.65)            (15.64)         (0.90)           (0.00)         (17.19)
2. Goods                               0.69               1.40            0.19             6.50           8.78
                                       (0.65)            (1.33)          (0.18)           (0.00)         (2.16)



                                                      - 24 -

   3. Services                              0.00                0.00              4.76             5.23              9.99
   (including credit, TA and               (0.00)              (0.00)            (4.76)           (0.00)            (4.76)
   training, and PPF)
   4.Miscellaneous                 (        0.00                0.00              5.58             2.13              7.71
   incremental operating cost)
                                           (0.00)              (0.00)            (5.58)           (0.00)            (5.58)
      Total                                 1.37               17.86             11.48            58.69             89.40
                                           (1.30)              (16.97)          (11.42)           (0.00)           (29.69)
   Note: Incremental operating cost includes charges incurred for office space, supplies and equipment, furniture,
   salaries for higher level professional and support staff, telephone, facsimile, photocopying, printing, and office
   supplies.

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through shopping, community participation, consulting services, services
      of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
      costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component a) b) (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
    Component a) b)                 Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.         CoF.         IDA          Govt.       CoF.       IDA     Govt.   CoF.
1. Community                   10.70        2.90          24.60       17.20         7.70       38.00      160.7    265.5   154.5
Development
2. Small and Micro              8.90        1.90          16.70        1.30         0.90        0.30       14.6     47.4    1.8
Enterprise Development
3. Capacity Building and       10.30        0.20          3.70        11.30         1.80       11.70      109.7    900.0   316.2
SFD Operating Cost
Total                          30.00        5.00          45.00       29.70         9.60       50.10       99.0    192.0   111.3

   a) Figures may not add up due to rounding.
     b) Government contributions include beneficiary community contributions.
     c) Cofinanciers include The Netherlands, Japan, OPEC Fund for International Development, Arab Fund for
   Economic and Social Development, USA Counter Value Aid Program, and European Union.




                                                            - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Appraisal did not provide for an economic rate of return calculation, given the difficulty of quantifying
benefits of some of the activities supported, such as health services and non-formal education. However, it
did carry out a study of the cost-effectiveness of the SFD approach as compared to the alternative of
delivering the same services through the line agencies. The average cost of overhead per dollar of
investment in these agencies was estimated and compared to the SFD average cost and showed that the
SFD was more efficient by a factor of three. The study also calculated maximum unit costs per beneficiary,
providing the SFD with ceilings for different types of activities (see Annex 5 of the PAD). This study was
repeated in 1999, and its results were described in Annex 4 of the PAD for the Second Social Development
Project (Report No. 20291-YEM) of April 11, 2000. Those results were as follows:

Cost-Effectiveness of SFD
The investments of the SFD should also be cost-efficient. During the Mid-Term Review in 1999, the
efficiency of the SFD was assessed using three criteria: (a) unit costs achieved by SFD compared to other
projects; (b) administrative efficiency to be determined by SFD overhead compared to similar projects, and
average processing and completion time by category; and (c) cost per beneficiary by category.

l Unit costs
The SFD in Yemen is an extremely efficient delivery mechanism when compared with other agencies, like
ministries and public agencies in general. The following tables show the unit cost of various activities by
category of subproject across different agencies (Ministry of Education, construction, public works, etc.).
In every single case the social fund overperforms the other agencies.

Average cost in selected activities for Education Sub-projects
         Item                  Unit of                     SFD                  Public Works       Ministry of
                               measure                                                             construction
Excavation of usual      Cubic meter                                2.05                     2.4               7.5
 earth (for
foundation)
Foundations              Cubic meter                              98.72                  118.42              183.3
Roofs                    Cubic meter                             110.58                  126.19              195.8
Bazelt stone walls       Cubic meter                              29.46                   39.26              52.08
Squared stone walls      Cubic meter                              40.76                   57.86                Na
Walls                    Square meter                               2.25                    2.44              3.75
Ceiling                  Square meter                               1.98                    2.09                 3


Average cost for civil works in education projects, US$, 1999
Item                                      SFD          Public Works             Education Sector     Basic
                                                                               Investment Project   Education
Cost per square meter                          145                   170                      170           188
Cost per square meter double floor       122-174                       Na                     149            Na


Average cost of equipment for health units by different agencies, US$
                                        SFD*                    Ministry of health**
September 1998                                     13,957                          15,372
April 1999                                          6,959                          13,555
October 1999                                       13,583                          24,806
                               * Including lab equipment; **Excluding lab equipment

Average cost per unit, SFD Vs. Government, Water Supply Projects (US$), 1999
Item                                       Unit       SFD         GARW



                                                                - 26 -

4" dia medium                           LM        12         21
3" dia medium                           LM        6.5      17.2
2.5" dia medium                         LM        7.3      14.4
2" dia medium                           LM        5.6      12.5
1.5" dia medium                         LM      4.34        9.4
Water tanks                             M3       128      187.5
Pump house                              M2       191        218
Pumping unit (pump + engine)            Per   13,470     14,062
(head 100m-150m & discharge 4-6        unit
lit/s)


It should be noted that cost minimization is one of the technical criteria used by the SFD in order to decide
whether to fund a project. The criteria differ by category, and in most cases minimum cost is not
necessarily a barrier to the funding of a project, as long as the other criteria are fulfilled. In general the
procedure adopted by the SFD is the following: based on the database of existing projects, an estimate of
unit costs is obtained. This database, together with informal assessments by SFD staff, is used as a
guideline in order to assess the viability of a project. When the bids are received, the SFD has an estimate
of the cost of implementing a project. If the bids received exceed such cost then a new bid is called.
However there is no formal cutoff point for the unit cost, and a database by governorate is in construction
now and has not yet been implemented.

Unit costs have decreased over time. For example the average unit cost for education projects is now $145
per square meter, compared with $163 in 1997/1998.

Cost per square meter of civil works (US$)
              Item                         Unit Cost per square meter
                                                   1997/98-1999
Stone wall school                                       148
Mud wall school                                          98
Stone wall school with 2 floors                       155142
Stone wall school with 1 floor                        180151
Average cost                                          163145
Total Schools built                                     7498


l Administrative Efficiency
The SFD has made remarkable efforts and achievements in strengthening its institutional capacity, as
evidenced from the size, results and further expansion of its portfolio in almost every sector of the
economy. Its overhead and administrative expenses have a direct bearing on the social rate of return of its
portfolio. The SFD staff is now capable of delivering training and technical assistance as part of the
subproject in the absence of local or international expertise. They have been doing this for almost two years
now and will continue to do so until the local institutions are prepared and equipped with skills to deliver
the services. Although this has added to the work of staff, who already have defined responsibilities to
carry out their work with tight deadlines, it has indirectly benefited and prepared SFD staff to get hands-on
experience in the field work and built their capacity to handle bigger sized projects, delivering them with
full accountability.

It is estimated that each project officer in SFD can now develop an average of 15 projects per year. In
addition, SFD now has six regional offices, enhancing its ability to reach target groups and assess the needs
of groups not yet benefiting from SFD programs. The capacity of SFD in tracking the progress of their
programs and managing the funds is growing. This can be attributed to the development of MIS with



                                                     - 27 -

advanced data inputting and reporting features, specifically designed to capture SFD performance on all
aspects of project, such as fund allocations, costing and disbursements; and program progress indicators on
trainees, beneficiaries and job creation.

To assess its efficiency, SFD set up a staff-time recording system to record time spent on different tasks
ranging from community mobilization, to appraisal, to procurement. This will be integrated in the future
into the MIS system and can be used as a management tool. In the future, central technical groups such as
procurement in the social fund will charge their time to specific subprojects providing management with a
full range of information needed to deploy staff and increase efficiency.

Yemen SFD has kept overheads very low in community mobilization projects by making its staff cover
more subprojects. Yemen SFD projects cover an average of 20 subprojects, as compared to the global
norm for Social Funds of 12 subprojects.



Management Unit overheads                      5%


Sub-project support & supervision           7,5 to 9,5


Construction                                85.5 to 87,5 %


The above presentation illustrates that 85.5- 87.5 percent of the total for community development
subproject cost goes to the community for implementation purposes. Secondly, it is estimated that a large
percentage of the subproject support and supervision costs (7.5-9.5 percent) helps the community
implement the project and can be considered as on-the-job training. Overall, it can be concluded that
approximately 90 percent of total project cost benefits the communities. This includes supervision by SFD
staff and consultants. This is very low when one considers that the SFD works in many inaccessible project
sites.

The microfinance program has a slightly higher overhead, because SFD staff provide a great deal of
technical assistance and support to the microfinance apex agencies. The higher level of overhead is also
justified when viewed in the context of leaving in place a financially and technically sustainable
microfinance agency serving the population well after Social Fund support is withdrawn. The overall
overhead for the SFD is still dominated by the overhead for the community development program; its
accounts for 80 percent of expenditures, whereas microfinance is less than 10 percent.

Compared to other institutions that provide development services, the Ministry of Education's school
construction unit has overhead ranging from 20 percent to 30 percent: this refers only to the school
construction unit and not to other Ministry staff who may also play a role in school construction. On top of
this, their unit costs are significantly higher (US$250-$350 per square meter). Overhead in other agencies
that manage investment programs is even higher: in some cases overhead is greater than investment.
Another comparison is the number of personnel. The SFD uses 85 people, including secretaries, drivers
and messengers, to deliver a program of over $20 million dollars per year in 640 locations, some being very
remote. In comparison the school buildings unit uses 500 people to deliver a program of investment of
US$3 million. A group of other agencies responsible for running development programs in different regions
use over 3,300 people to deliver a program of transfers and investment of US$5 million.



                                                    - 28 -

l Cost per Beneficiary
Cost per beneficiary for most of SFD's subprojects decreased until 1999 and increased thereafter. There
are many possible explanations for this phenomenon:                       all of the projects for year 2000 are under
preparation and thus the number of beneficiaries has not been assessed accurately, resulting in a high cost
per beneficiary. Also, the SFD decided to expand its scope to remote areas and to direct implementation of
projects, which tends to increase the cost per beneficiary, though offset by additional benefits (like capacity
building at the community level).

Average cost per beneficiary by year and category (simple average, US$)
                    Cost per beneficiary (Direct beneficiaries only)            Cost per beneficiary (direct plus indirect beenficiaries)

    Sector         1997                  1998                   1999              1997                   1998                   1999

                $$    Sample        $$       Sample         $$      Sample    $$      Sample        $$       Sample         $$       Sample

  Education   117.6      19       133.9        145        69.1       226     98.3        19       102.9        145         65.2        226

    Health     5.7       11        14.5         50         9.1       40       5.1        11        13.0         50          8.9         40

    Water      32.4      10        16.5         32        22.6       42      32.4        10        15.9         32         22.4         42

  Capacity
   Building   119.8      6        118.3         20        40.7       37      119.8       6        105.2         20         39.3         37

    Roads       --                   --                   11.9                --                    --                      6.5

  Sewerage                         48.8          6        15.8        9                            9.3           6         15.8          9

 Microcredit    46       2                                  96        3       7          2                                  16           3




Education, microcredit, and capacity building are the most expensive activities when direct beneficiaries
are considered. However microcredit has many more indirect beneficiaries, reducing the cost per
beneficiary significantly. Also, as health and water projects tend to be spread over a large number of
individuals, the cost per beneficiary is significantly lower than the other activities. Education on the other
hand has many more projects and fewer beneficiaries than health, explaining the difference in cost.

The way beneficiaries are estimated varies across categories, affecting the perceived cost per beneficiary.
For example, education projects in general will have fewer beneficiaries, since only students currently
enrolled in the school that is being upgraded are considered. On the other hand, in health related projects
the number of beneficiaries is much higher and extends to the entire village/community.

Projects vary notedly in terms of scope of beneficiaries and total cost. The following table shows the
maximum and minimum cost per beneficiary by category of SFD subprojects in year 1998 and 1999; it has
been observed that some Social Funds in other countries rely on cost per beneficiary as an additional
criterion to determine which subprojects will be funded. If applied, this indicator should not be used as the
only criterion, since high cost per beneficiary may imply among other things that the project is being
implemented directly by a community, which is usually more expensive but fulfills other goals like capacity
building. It may also signify that the project is being implemented in remote areas, where development may
be another spillover or objective of channeling the funds through those subprojects. The criteria to
determine the cut-off points should be clearly specified and based on past experiences. The SFD currently
uses a cut-off value of $100 to screen water projects.

Cost per beneficiary, selected indicators




                                                                - 29 -

                                                    1998                                                              1999
 Sector
                       Minimum         Maximum          Median           75th                                                           75th
                                                                         percentile       Minimum          Maximum         Median       percentile

 Education                 6.5             722.3           152.7            251.1              0.5            902.6           166.0         232

 Health                    1.2             753.9            14.6             26.2              0.9            218.7            14.3         23.0

 Water                     1.3             106.4            40.3             60.3              3.3            120.3            39.4         58.5

 Capacity
 Building                  2.4            1055.5            15.4            338.9              3.5             500             96.2        216.5


Note: in this case the median indicates the cost per beneficiary such that 50 percent of the projects have a lower cost per beneficiary
than the median.


As we can see, the median value shows that a good number of projects are well below the maximum cost
per beneficiary. The fact that the median values for some categories is significantly lower than the means
(e.g., capacity building 1998) shows that there are a few very expensive projects that drive the average cost
per beneficiary up. This is even more clear when observing the 75th percentile. For example education in
1999, even though the maximum cost per beneficiary is 902.6, 75 percent of the projects have a cost per
beneficiary below 232. For every single category the 75th percentile is lower in 1999 than in 1998.

Recent Update
The recent report on Key Findings- Yemen SFD Impact Evaluation provided some further relevant
information. Its findings are described in Annex 8.




                                                                          - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/03/1996                5    TTL, SME Development
                                             Specialist, Community
                                             Development Specialist, Small
                                             Scale Labor Intensive Works
                                             Specialist, Social Anthropologist,
                                             Economist
              12/8/1996                 2    SME Development Specialist,
                                             Community Development
                                             Specialist
              01/15/1997                2    SME Development Specialist,
                                             Community Development
                                             Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/09/1997                5    TTL, Social Fund Specialist,
                                             Procurement/Disbursement
                                             Analyst, Labor Intensive
                                             Works Engineer, NGO
                                             Specialist


 Supervision
              05/31/1998                4    TTL; Social Fund Specialist;           S               S
                                             SME Specialist; Small
                                             Community Works Specialist
              10/28/1998                1    Financial Management Specialist        S               S
              11/18/1998                3    TTL; Social Fund Specialist;           S               S
                                             SME Specialist
              11/15/1999                6    TTL; Community Contracting             HS             HS
                                             Specialist; Operations Officer;
                                             Operations Analyst; Senior
                                             Economist/Impact Assessment
                                             Specialist; Research Analyst;
                                             Procurement/Disbursement
                                             Specialist
              05/18/2001                5    TTL; Microfinance Specialist;          HS             HS
                                             Techinical Auditor; Operations
                                             Officer; Impact Assessment
                                             Specialist
              05/06/2002                2    TTL/Social Fund Specialist;            HS             HS
                                             Program Assistant


 ICR
              09/13/2003                4     TTL; Social Fund                      HS             HS
                                              Specialist; Micro-Finance
                                              Specialist; Operations



                                              - 31 -

                                                Analyst

TTL: Task Team Leader, SME: Small and Micro-Enterprise

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 NA                        122,780
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      NA                        100,000
  Supervision                                NA                        367,000
  ICR                                        NA                         45,000
  Total                                      NA                        634,780




                                                - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Capacity Building of NGOs and CBOs and SDF Community Development Officers, A.al Dalli, IBRD, March 20,
1997.

Country Assistance Strategy (24372-YEM), IBRD, August 8, 2002.

Key Findings- Yemen SFD Impact Evaluation, ESA, September 2003.

Mid-Term Review, IBRD, October-November 1999.

MSE Baseline Survey-Yemen (final report of a nation-wide baseline survey among micro and small business
enterprises (MSEs) in Yemen), NEI, November 2000.

Phase II Report: Findings from the 1999 National Poverty Survey, ESA, November 2002.

Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper: 2003-2005, Government of the Yemen, May 31, 2002.

Project Appraisal Report, Social Fund for Development Project, IBRD, April 24, 1997.

Project Appraisal Report, Second Social Fund for Development Project, IBRD, April 11, 2000.

Republic of Yemen- Poverty Update, IBRD, December 11, 2002.

Social Assessment of the Social Fund for Development of the Republic of Yemen, R. Detalle and E. Volpi, IBRD,
July 1999.

Social Fund for Development, Establishment Phase, SFD, 1998.

Social Fund for Development, Evaluation Mission, European Commission and Republic of Yemen, July 1999.

Social Fund for Development, Mid-Term Review, European Community, April 2003.

Social Fund for Development, Second Phase, Opertional Manual, May 2001.

Social Protection and Structural Adjustment in Yemen: Potential and Limitations of the Social Fund for
Development, German Development Institute, December 1998.

Yemen Social and Employment Fund Project, Beneficiary Assessment, S. Meenakshy, IBRD, May-July 1996.

Yemen Social Fund for Development, A Participatory Rapid Appraisal, S. Meenakshy and R.el Rashidi, IBRD,
Dec. 19, 1997.




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

The Key Findings-Yemen SFD Impact Evaluation, completed by ESA Consultores in September 2003,
resulted in some interesting findings that influenced the SFD management to consider further adjustment of
its policies and practices. The most relevant sections have been copied below. It should be noted that the
data are based on a July 2003 assessment and include financing provided under the IDA-funded Second
SFD Project (Credit 3353-YEM). It also should be noted that this survey covered 97 subprojects
(collecting data from 2,038 households), for which baseline data existed from the 1999 exercise, as well as
101 pipeline subprojects (collecting data from 2,029 households). These covered education, health, water
supply and microfinance.

1         SFD's Operational efficiency

1.1       Number and type of projects/amount of funding

As of July 2003, the Social Fund for Development had committed a total of US$213 million in 3,063
projects, of which 1,686 (US$94M) had been completed, 1,232 (US$111M) were under implementation
and 117 (US$8M) had been approved pending implementation (see Table 1.a).

                                  Table 1.a - SFD Investments by sector to July 2003

                                Numberof projects                  Budgetedvalueofinvestment         %of        %of
                       Approved Underway Completed Total  Approved  Underway Completed      Total    projects investment
Education                   59      577      888   1,524 4,167,302 56,630,861 53,452,350 114,250,513      50        54
Water                       28      218      284      530 1,616,404 14,694,706 16,743,512 33,054,622      17        15
Health                      11       93      177      281   548,281  7,236,693 9,360,550 17,145,524        9          8
Roads                        3       65       32      100   306,657  7,641,489 2,984,188 10,932,334        3          5
Special NeedsGroups          3      102       41      146   65,000   8,508,334 2,416,324 10,989,658        5          5
Environment                  4       36       41       81   563,711  5,105,128 4,273,255    9,942,094      3          5
CulturalHeritage             3       26         8      37   453,680  4,618,825    654,370   5,726,875      1          3
MicroCredit                          16       26       42            2,698,838 1,417,463    4,116,301      1          2
OrganizationalSupport        5       53       86      144   650,057  1,852,086 1,234,140    3,736,283      5          2
Training                             29       96      125            1,084,271 1,166,441    2,250,712      4          1
IntegratedInterventions      1       16         5      22   76,000   1,037,890    110,813   1,224,703      1          1
Small Entreprises                     1         2       3              126,000     13,706    139,706       0          0
Total                      117    1,232    1,686   3,035 8,447,092 111,235,121 93,827,112 213,509,325   100         100
                         3.9%    40.6%     55.6%              4.0%       52.1%     43.9%


1.2       Number of beneficiaries

Table 1.b summarizes the number of direct and indirect beneficiaries of SDF projects by type of project
and by year of completion. Education, health, water and road projects generate 79 percent of all direct
beneficiaries, a figure which goes up to 97 percent if environment projects are included in the group.
Indirect beneficiaries add only 19 percent to the number of direct beneficiaries. The number of direct
beneficiaries varies by type of project, from small-scale ventures such as training (55 beneficiaries per
project) or special needs groups projects (302) to wider-scaled road (9,630) or environment (14,348)
projects, through medium-size developments in education (713) or water (2,867).



                                                      - 36 -

 Table 1.b - Summary of direct and indirect beneficiaries of SFD projects by type of project and year
                                                         of completion

                                                                                                Special
 Completion   Cultural                              Integrated Micro Credit Organization         Need
   Year       Heritage Education Environment Health Intervention  Projects  al Support   Roads  Groups  Training  Water  GrandTotal
      1997                 900                5,200                                                                  784     6,884
                               0              1,006                                                                    0     1,006
      1998              48,848        1,523  91,958                               782                          97 64,277   207,485
                        13,778           0    5,000                                   0                         0 7,400     26,178
      1999             129,530     10,500 182,075                       40        442                        223 124,895   447,705
                        19,498           0   27,000                      0            0                         0      0    46,498
      2000              34,249     10,770 139,863             9     3,657       2,964     5,000     200      477  40,472   237,661
                         3,515           0         9          0     8,040       2,720     3,000        0        0    724    18,008
      2001     14,900   95,694 105,877 144,710             939      1,846       4,260    61,409   8,791   1,229 219,257    658,912
                      0 21,339           0   17,500           0    10,833         155    26,494  45,377   4,500   1,200    127,398
      2002         950 249,631 278,040 165,238         18,572         662      11,214 157,869     2,909   1,783 274,029 1,160,897
                4,900   25,967     36,000     6,006 112,270         3,738       2,074    39,980   3,591  22,900   89,555   346,981
      2003              46,893 181,540       57,631                   245       3,513    83,876     498   1,504   81,876   457,676
                         1,838        7,000      650                5,060         524    37,028     903        10    159    53,172
Total
Direct         15,850 605,745 588,250 786,675          19,520       6,450      23,175 308,154    12,398   5,313 805,590 3,177,220
Total
Indirect        4,900   85,935     43,000    57,171 112,270        27,671       5,473 106,502    49,871  27,410   99,038   619,241
#projects             8    849          41       176          5         26          86       32      41        96    281      1643
Direct
beneficiaries
/project        1,981      713     14,348     4,470      3,904        248         269     9,630     302        55 2,867      1,934

Source: MIS

Gender distribution, as calculated through project statistic,s shows that the distribution is more or less
equal by gender except in education.

                       Table 1.c - Proportion of female beneficiaries by type of sub-project

                        Proportion of women beneficiaries                   Direct        Indirect
                        Education                                                43.3          34.7
                        Health                                                   50.3          52.8
                        Water                                                    50.1          49.9
                        All projects                                             48.9          47.8


1.3         Project cycle performance
The concept of project cycle performance refers to the relative speed of the different steps needed to
complete the project. The are five milestones that permit defining the major steps in the process: the
request for project funding, approval of the project by the committee, signature of a contract with the
requesting community, adjudication of construction contract and completion of works. The measure used in
this section is the median rather than the average, since the average can be strongly influenced by very few
outliers. Of the data available from 1,035 projects including civil works, the overall duration of the process
is 576 days, that is 19.2 months, distributed as follows:

-           from request to committee approval: 221 days (38.4 percent of total time)




                                                                - 37 -

-        from committee approval to contract with community: 16 days (2.8 percent)
-        from contract with community to construction contract: 102 days (17.7 percent)
-        from construction contract to completion: 237 days (41.1 percent).

There are, however, some internal differences: for instance, water projects are quicker to approve and,
along with health projects, have a shorter actual civil work time, resulting in an overall median duration of
520 days. On the other hand, road projects are longer to approve and complete, for an overall median
duration of 648 days (the corresponding figures are 562 days for health projects and 580 days for
education projects).

Another interesting difference is related to the year of implementation. Figure 1.a below shows the
distribution of median duration of the same main four steps, with the projects distributed according to the
year completed. The overall picture is that of an increasing length of the project cycle, from 282 to 631
days, in all likelihood linked to the increase in the number of projects to be managed, and possibly to the
decentralization of the program, which may imply the use of less qualified or competent staff in the branch
office, or the need to move project documents back and forth between HQ and branch offices. It may also
be linked to increased stringency in the appraisal and monitoring norms of the SFD as the institution
matured.

                              Figure 1-a -Project Cycle Performance ­ By Year



                     2002


                     2001


                     2000

                     1999


                     1998


                     1997


                           0      100      200      300      400      500     600    700

                                              Number of days (median)
                                  Request to approval
                                  Approval to community contract
                                  Community contract to construction contract
                                  Construction contract to completion



2        Cost ­ Efficiency of SFD Investments

2.1      Cost per beneficiary

Based on the data provided by the Fund's MIS for completed subprojects, the study calculated the average
cost and the average number of direct beneficiaries per category of subproject, then the average cost per
direct beneficiary. The results, presented in Table 2.a, range between US$5.68 for integrated interventions
and US$220.91 for training ventures. Projects with a larger number of beneficiaries obviously tend to be
less expensive on a per capita basis. For comparison, the PAD for the SFD II Project quoted the costs of
education projects at US$69-134, health projects at US$6-15, water projects at US$17-32, and roads
projects at US$12, for the period from 1997 to 1999.



                                                     - 38 -

                        Table 2.a - Cost of SFD completed subprojects per beneficiary



                                                              Number of direct
                                              Average cost per beneficiaries per Average cost per
             Type of sub-project               project (US$)       project         beneficiary
             Integrated Interventions                   22,163            3,904             5.68
             Environment                              104,226           14,348              7.26
             Roads                                      93,256            9,630             9.68
             Health                                     52,884            4,470            11.83
             Water                                      58,956            2,867            20.56
             Cultural Heritage                          81,796            1,981            41.29
             Organizational supprt                      14,350              269            53.35
             Education                                  60,194              713            84.42
             Special Needs groups                       58,935              302           195.15
             Micro credit                               54,518              248           219.83
             Training                                   12,150               55           220.91
                                                        55,651            1,934            28.78


3       SFD's Targeting Outcomes

3.1     Benefit Incidence Analysis

The study shows estimates of the proportion of total SFD funding going to each decile of population, by
type of project and globally for all SFD projects. Table 3.a shows the results of this analysis.




                                                    - 39 -

  Table 3.a - Benefit Incidence of SFD ­ 198 Projects with Data from MIS of SFD and the IES 2003

                                                      Populations deciles from poor (1) to rich (10)/1
                                       1       2         3      4       5        6      7      8       9       10      Total

                 Total program      % of resources based on potential beneficiary population/2 for education, water,            Distribution
                 resources SFD                                health, rural roads and micro credit                               Index /4

Education            102,769,793 16.8 14.5 12.1 10.9 11.7                      6.1     8.8    8.8     6.3     4.0      100.0        0.201
Water                  32,559,350 18.2 13.9 14.1 10.5 10.8                     9.9     7.0    6.9     6.5     2.3      100.0        0.176
Health                 16,302,332 15.6 14.4 12.8                9.6   12.0     7.8     7.9    7.8     5.2     7.0      100.0        0.242
Rural Roads            11,284,867 15.2 18.9 14.2 10.9 10.9                     8.9     6.5    6.6     2.3     5.5      100.0        0.256
Micro Credit             3,890,501 8.2        7.0      9.8    10.5     7.5    14.1     7.7   14.1     7.6     13.6 100.0           -0.072

Total /3             166,806,843 16.6 14.5 12.6 10.7 11.4                      7.4     8.2    8.3     6.0     4.3 100.0             0.204

 Notes
 1/National Population deciles based on income data from NPS 1999 ajusted to january 2003 with CPI, acumulating population
   in order of percapita income with cut-off points determined by the accumulated population of the households and set at 10%,
 20% etc
   of the total population.
 2/ Potential beneficiaries are the population located in the IES 2002 sample considered to be within the area of influence of the
 198
    SFD projects analyzed.
 3/ Total for the project types analysed here to december 2002. Other projects account for 14.1% of 194,244,249 SFD resources
 in total . The total is based on the sector-specific estimates weighted by the investment amount in each sector for the whole SFD
 program. It is valid only for the project types reported here.
 4/ See text for definition.




The results are very positive and show that a high proportion of SFD resources are benefiting the poorest
households in Yemen: 17 percent going to the poorest decile, 31 percent to the poorest quintile and 44
percent to the poorest three deciles. These figures seem much better than those found in other Social
Investment Funds where the same analytical procedures were applied. This is especially good to find in
Yemen, where the generally high level of poverty across the entire population might be expected to make it
more difficult to target the RELATIVELY poor households.

It is also noteworthy that the pattern is consistent across subproject type (with distribution indexes ranging
between 0.176 and 0.256, except for microfinance (where the distribution index of ­0.072 shows a
regressive pattern, perhaps linked to the fact that people benefiting from microloans tend to be more
"entrepreneurial" and thus less likely to be poor than the average target population. However, this group of
projects has a little weight in the total distribution. It should also be mentioned that the project sample for
microfinance was small but was virtually a census of all SFD microfinance projects. It, therefore, is
representative of those projects.

The difference from the 1999 data (presented in the Phase 2 Report: Findings from the 1999 NPS Survey),
which found less favorable results, is interesting. It might reflect an improvement in targeting by project
officials since 1999.

4           Consultation, Participation, Ownership and SFD's Impact on Social Capital

4.1         Consultation on project design




                                                                     - 40 -

Key respondents in the project survey were asked to estimate the extent of community involvement in the
discussions held prior to project implementation. The results are presented in Table 4.a.

   Table 4.a - Proportion of main respondents, community leaders and community representatives
                                    involved in subproject discussions

                                         Education         Health           Water           Road
                                         EP      BL      EP        BL    EP       BL      EP     BL
        Main respondents                  91      95      95        92   100       96    100      85
        informed
        Leaders/persons involved in the discussion
           Shaikh                         76      74      80        59    84       92      79     77
           Member of Parliament           66      50      45        36    61       33      43     45
           Staff of institution           59      61      45        45    16        8
           Local Council                  21      43      20        23    21       31      29     29
           District Gvt. Office           21      25      20        23                            12
           Governorate Office               7     32      25        41
           NGO                            10        4     15        18    21       20      14     12
           Community                      90      86     100        86   100       92    100      94
        beneficiaries

                                       Source: IES 2003 ­ Project survey


The respondents themselves, in most cases managers of the subproject or otherwise involved in its current
work, were overall well informed about the project design. Their answers with regards to other persons'
involvement indicate the frequent occurrence of involvement of individual political leaders (shaikh or
Parliament member), either to initiate or to support the project, which is a traditional way for politicians or
customary leaders to maintain their status. Staff of the concerned institutions is consulted in more than half
of the cases for education and health subprojects. The district and governorate-level offices of the line
ministries seem to be only peripherally involved, which may indicate the effectiveness of the Fund's
interventions in bypassing common administrative barriers and bottlenecks and establishing itself as an
action-minded organization. On the other hand, it may also reflect a lack of intersectorial coordination,
which may be prejudicial to the future operations and maintenance of the subproject.

Although the project survey shows that in almost all cases some members of the community were
consulted, it is not the same as all members of the community being informed of or consulted about the
project. The evidence from the household survey shows that between one-third and two-fifths of the
population knew about the SFD project (40.2 percent in the ex-post group and 36 percent for the baseline
group). When households in the ex-post group were asked which kind of project was supported by the
SFD, those who knew there was one mentioned the correct type in 91-96 percent of the cases.

4.2     Community contribution to the project

The direct participation of communities can take several forms: donation of money or working days,
donation of materials for construction of the main building, etc. Table 4.b shows, for each type of
participation and each type of project, the proportion of communities that participated in the projects and
the average amount (money-equivalent) of this participation, according to the main respondents.




                                                    - 41 -

            Table 4.b - Frequency and amount of community contribution to SFD subprojects

                                 Education                 Health                  Water                  Roads
     Type of                    %        Amount        %       Amount        %         Amount        %       Amount
     participation                         (YR)                   (YR)                   (YR)                   (YR)
     Money                      71.9     445,750       77.8     376,389      83.3      1,066,666     64.3       425,143
     Working days               37.5       61,515      44.4      54,889      33.3        138,444     57.1       201,071
     Stones                     34.4       68,125      33.3     133,472      11.8        150,000     57.1       655,721
     Sand                       28.1       28,125        0.0                 22.2          9,036       7.1         7,143
     Water                      25.0       15,000      22.2      13,333      27.8          7,333     14.3         10,000
     Other materials            18.8       24,000      33.3      29,167      47.1      2,612,292     14.3         35,714
     Other                      15.6       21,594        5.6     11,111      26.7         41,111       7.1      357,143
     Total                     N= 32     664,109     N= 18      618,361     N= 18    4,024,903*     N= 14    1,691,935


Source: IES 2003 ­ Project survey
Note: one isolated contribution for YR40M in "other materials" has a large impact on the average water project community
contribution. Discarding this outlier, the average total contribution for water projects would be: YR1,558,504, similar to that
of the road projects.


Between two-thirds and four-fifths of the communities contribute money to the subproject, which is the
easiest way to participate, provided there is some money available in the community.                           Direct labor
contribution is highest in the road subprojects (57.1 percent), as well as contribution in materials (stones).
Using an average exchange rate of YR160 per US$, the community contribution estimated by the main
respondents corresponds to 6.9 percent of the completed project costs (as assessed by the SFD) for
education projects; 7.3 percent for health projects; 16.5 percent for water projects and 11.3 percent for
roads projects. These figures are above the 5 percent that constitutes one of the requirements for SFD
funding, and their relative importance could also indicate the grade of priority that communities give to
each type of subproject.

Of the visited households, 38.7 percent said they had contributed to the subproject. Individual contributions
by categories show similar patterns, as seen in Table 4.c, with monetary contributions being the most
common.       As subprojects are getting under way, the labor and materials contribution make up an
increasing share of community contribution, as opposed to financial contributions, which dominate before
the beginning of a subproject.

     Table 4.c - Proportion of households contributing to SFD subprojects by type of contribution

     Type of contribution                               Ex-post                                   Baseline
                                         Educ.     Health      Water     Roads      Educ.    Health    Water     Roads
     Donating labor                       32.8       45.9       32.8      42.6       15.2      27.2      18.5      22.7
     Donating materials                     6.7      23.5       22.7      16.3       13.7      16.8      16.1        6.7
     Donating money                       67.2       50.6       67.2      54.7       78.7      64.0      72.0      70.6
     Donating or lending tools              2.1        2.4        2.5       4.7        0.5       1.5      3.0        2.5
     Other                                  6.7        3.6        2.5     11.1         2.0       3.7      4.2        3.4
     Number of households                 238        84         119       190        197       136      168        119

The average household contribution is estimated, in the ex-post group, between YR6 and YR25, as seen in
Table 4.d. Education and rural road subprojects seem to have the highest level of household contribution.

                    Table 4.d - Average household contribution to subprojects by category




                                                             - 42 -

       Monetary value of                    Education        Health          Water          Roads           # hhlds
       household contributions (in                                                                         donating
       YR)
       Donated labor                            4,997          2,241            2,177           3,265        237
       Donated materials                        1,203          1,362            1,682           3,851         94
       Donated money                            5,190          1,683            3,432           7,766        387
       Donating or lending tools                  143               71               32           319         19
       Other ways                             13,917           1,250                 25         2,732         42
       Total                                  25,450           6,607            7,348        17,933
       Number of households                   238              84             119             190



            Source: Household survey. Note: Averages calculated on the basis of all households in project groups.


4.3      Consensus on priority of SFD Project

Both the main respondents in the project survey and the interviewees in the household survey were asked
whether they thought the project actually was a priority for them and the results are shown in Tables 4.e
and 4.f.

              Table 4.e - Subproject Priority as Perceived by Main Respondents (ex-post)

Level of priority    Education        Health         Water          Roads
High                        90.6         100.0          100.0           100.0
Worthwhile                     9.4          0.0            0.0             0.0
Not a priority                 0.0          0.0            0.0             0.0
Num. of projects


Obviously, the main respondents, most of them currently involved in the subprojects, are quite unanimous.
For education projects, alternative priorities were one water and one health project. The household
perspective is slightly more diverse, with 60-89 percent of interviewees concurring with the fact that the
subproject implemented was actually the one with the highest priority, with the best ranking going to
microfinance projects. For the 195 persons dissenting, water projects were the preferred alternative in 52.2
percent of the cases, health in 17.1 percent, education in 13.2 percent, rural roads in 5.6 percent and
electricity projects in 7.8 percent.

       Table 4.f - Priority of subproject as perceived by households (household, ex-post survey)

         Level of priority            Educatio       Health      Water        Roads        Micro
                                           n                                              finance
Would have chosen same                      60.0        74.2        73.8          78.9        88.8
project
Would have chosen other                      32.8       18.9        19.5          17.9          8.6
project
Did not know                                  7.2        7.0          6.7           3.2         2.6
Number of households                        595          387         344           308         233


4.4      Ownership of project

One way to assess ownership of the project by the community is to investigate the perceived quality of the



                                                         - 43 -

      work done, under the assumption that community members will cherish and better maintain a work deemed
      to be of acceptable quality. Again, the same question was asked from the main respondents in the project
      survey and the interviewees in the household survey.


               Table 4.g -Perceived quality of SFD work among main respondents (project survey)

Perceived quality of       Education      Health        Water        Roads
work
      Excellent                  71.9         85.7           57.9        71.4
           Average                25.0        14.3           26.3          7.1
             Bad                   3.1          0.0          15.8        21.4



      For education projects, reasons for perceived bad quality included: bad quality of the stones employed in
      the construction; presence of surface cracks or roof leakages; absence or low quality of doors; and fences.
      For water projects, reasons for dissatisfaction with quality included: water leakage; shortage or bad quality
      of cement; not abiding by standards; and the well not being dug deep enough. For rural road projects, they
      included: road still narrow; delay in implementation by the contractor; and not meeting the standards.


        Table 4.h - Perceived quality of SFD work among ex-post household members (household survey)

               Perceived quality of work        Education       Health       Water        Roads
               Excellent                               61.6         56.3         42.7         53.6
               Average                                   7.1        15.0         15.7         20.6
               Bad                                       3.0         4.7         13.1          9.2
               No opinion / no response                 28.3        24.0         28.5         16.6
               Number of households                    594          387          344          306


      Another approach to assessing ownership of the project and the likelihood of community participation in its
      running and maintenance is asking about the perceived value of the finished product as compared to the
      resources (both their resources and the project's) invested in its development.

        Table 4.i - Perceived value for money of the SFD works among main respondents (project survey)

      Value for money      Education      Health        Water        Roads
      Good                    75.0         85.7          84.2         78.6
      Medium                  21.9          4.8          5.3           0.0
      Low                      3.1          9.5          10.5         21.4


      In the case of education projects, perceived low value was linked to a still insufficient number of
      classrooms and the lack of fences. For water projects, respondents felt that in some cases, the consultants
      and contractors changed the standards, or that the community did not really benefit from the project.
      Reasons for low value perception of the road projects included the fact that the work was sometimes not
      completed or not up to standards.


      Finally, one can simply ask households in the area of influence of the subprojects if they do actually feel
      that they are beneficiaries of this project. Table 4.j shows that the proportion of ex-post households feeling
      that they actually do benefit from the subproject implemented is highest for road projects and lowest for
      water projects (where one would like to see water more available and more directly available in one's
      house), with an overall proportion of 60.6 percent. When comparing with similar figures for the baseline



                                                            - 44 -

group (where subprojects are planned or under way, the proportion of households feeling as beneficiaries is
obviously lower, and will rise with implementation.

However, one should also notice that the perception of definitely not being a beneficiary tends to increase
from the baseline group to the ex-post group, that is after effectively seeing the project being implemented
in one's community. This is probably due to it being much clearer after a project is finished, who are really
the beneficiaries; ex-ante, some people may expect to benefit who turn out later not to benefit. This could
lead to some discontent with the SFD project among the households who do not benefit, for whatever
reason. SFD should attempt to provide clear information as early as possible about the scope of coverage
and the character of services to be provided, in order to avoid such confusions.


        Table 4.j ­ Households' perception of their beneficiary status in relation to SFD projects

                                         Ex-post                                   Baseline
                           Education   Health    Water    Roads    Education     Health     Water   Roads
    Beneficiary now             56.1     69.3     41.0      80.2           9.2     12.0       0.8    16.4
    Beneficiary in the          13.3     17.6     20.6      13.0         78.1      80.7      72.9    72.9
    future
    Not beneficiary             30.6     13.2     38.4       6.8         12.7        7.4     26.4    10.7


                                             Source - 2003 IES


4.5 Social Capital

The study has no data on social capital for the ex-ante situation of the communities in the ex-post sample,
and so was only able to compare here the ex-post social capital situation with the ex-ante situation in the
new baseline sample. It is important to stress that the comparison of these two groups is not necessarily a
good indicator of SFD's impact on social capital, as the social capital status of the new "Baseline" group
might have been different from that of the pre-intervention status of the "ex-post group". Also, the
preparatory phase of the SFD intervention (which had already happened in these communities, in order for
the project to be firmly approved for implementation by SFD) would be expected to affect their social
capital status. Nevertheless, we report here the findings for the two groups; and the fact that the levels of
structural social capital appear to be generally rather low in both datasets is some indication that the SFD
is not having a major impact in this area.

Only 4.0 percent of the households in the ex-post group (and 2.3 percent in the baseline group) mentioned
that they had members affiliated with any association, with an average of 1.6 members affiliated per family
with affiliation. Another measure of structural social capital is respondents' knowledge of organizations
that work for the benefit of the community. But once again there is little sign that there is more organization
presence in the communities in the ex-post than in the ex-ante (new baseline) group. A similar proportion
of households (13.9 and 14.1 percent) seemed to know about such organizations, the list of which is
provided in Table 4.l.

Local charitable or cooperative societies are mentioned most often (by 56 and 38 percent of the respondents
respectively), followed by public services (communications, water and electricity), local councils and health
facilities. The Social Fund for Development was only mentioned by six percent of the respondents in each
group, a potential source of worry in terms of communications strategies for the Fund. In general, local



                                                    - 45 -

charitable or cooperative societies seem to be the prevalent form of structural social capital present in the
surveyed communities.

                     Table 4.k - Service-providing organizations in the community
                                            (multiple answers)
                                                                       Ex-post       Baseline
              Local societies (cooperatives/charitable)                     56.4          38.2
              Office of Post & Communications Services                      10.0          32.4
              Water/Electricity Corporations                                23.6          30.1
              Local Councils                                                24.3          19.1
              Hospitals/health facilities                                    5.8          18.8
              Social Security Fund                                          17.8           8.5
              Education/illiteracy offices                                  14.7          11.8
              Other government agencies                                      5.8          11.4
              Schools                                                        0.4          11.0
              Private Sector Corporations                                    5.8          11.0
              Foreign donors                                                 2.7           9.6
              Security/Civil Affaires                                        0.8           9.6
              Social Fund for Development                                    5.8           5.5
              Number of households                                           259           272




                 Table 4.l - Ranking of local organizations by their perceived
                 importance for community development (multiple answers)
                                                                 Ex-post         Baseline
                                                                %     Rank      %     Rank
                 Local societies                               79.4     1     52.2      1
                 SFD                                           14.7     2       9.0     6
                 Local Councils                                13.2     3       9.0     6
                 Education (schools)                            7.4     4     29.9      2
                 Health facilities                              7.4     4     25.4      4
                 Water/electricity corporations                 4.4     6     26.9      3
                 International organizations                    2.9     7     20.9      5
                 Number of households                               68              67



5. Service production and sustainability of SFD Projects.

This section presents findings on the production of services and sustainability indicators taken from the
2003 IES project survey component. Data are presented for the ex-post group and for the new baseline
sample.

The same caveats already expressed should be borne in mind regarding the comparability of these data,
since it is possible that there are systematic differences between present service production and
sustainability conditions in the new baseline group and the pre-intervention status of the projects that SFD
has already completed.

Therefore, the data for the ex-post set should be interpreted independently, as indicating the sustainability
level of projects where SFD has already finished its work, but not normally allowing us to reach inferences



                                                   - 46 -

about whether SFD's intervention has been associated with an improvement in that sustainability.
However, in some cases, recall data were collected that do allow us to reach conclusions on this point.

5.1      Education Projects
(32 schools in ex-post group, 31 in baseline group)

Table 5.a shows the number of schools, number of classrooms and number of students by type of class
(boys only, girls only or mixed classes) in the ex-post survey sample for 2002/3 and for 1997/8. The
number of students increased by 29 percent in the ex-post group; the increase was highest for girl-only
classes (38 percent). The increase in number of classrooms was 12 percent (29 percent for girl-only
classrooms). The average class-size rose by 38 percent in (but only 8 percent in girl-only classes).
Overall, the proportion of girls enrolled rose from 48 percent to 50 percent. It can be concluded that the
SFD investments in these schools were associated with an increase in enrollment, which is particularly
strong for girl students, whose teaching conditions were favored by the building of new classrooms, so
class sizes for girls remained stable.


                  Table 5.a - Enrolment by type of class and school/class/students ratios

             Yemen SFD - Enrollment by type of classes - Project Survey (ex post sample)
                                               Boys         Girls        Mixed        Total
                                              classes      classes      classes
             1997/8
             Number of schools                        6            7           15            28
             Number of classes                       50           84          126          260
             Number of students
               Male                               1,596                     2,254        3,850
               Female                                          2,849          723        3,572
               Both                               1,596        2,849        2,977        7,422
             # students/class                        32           34           24            29
             # classes/school                         8           12            8             9
             # students/school                      266          407          198          265
             2001/2
             Number of schools                        6            7           18            31
             Number of classes                       52          108          163          323
             Number of students
               Male                               1,887                     3,404        5,291
               Female                                          3,946        1,341        5,287
               Both                               1,887        3,946        4,745      10,578
             # students/class                        36           37           29            33
             # classes/school                         9           15            9            10
             # students/school                      315          564          264          341
             % change
             # students/class                      13.7          7.7         23.2         14.7
             # classes/school                       4.0         28.6          7.8         12.2
             # students/school                     18.2         38.5         32.8         28.7




                                                   - 47 -

Figure 5.a, shows that schools in the ex-post group tended to be more frequently opened over the week
before the survey than those from the baseline group, although the main reason invoked was similar in both
cases, that is the middle-of-the-year vacations.

                   Figure 5-a - Opening of schools in the six days previous to the survey



                             100%



                              80%



                              60%



                              40%



                              20%


                                0%
                                      1   2  3    4  5  6       1   2   3   4  5   6
                                           Ex-Post                   Baseline

                                             All open  Som e closed  All closed


Staffing patterns also influence the availability and quality of services: the following table shows the data
for the two surveyed groups in this respect. In each case, there is a relatively high proportion of qualified
and permanent teachers, suggesting that the availability of staff (and funding for their employment) is not a
serious limiting constraint to the effectiveness of investments in the expansion of education coverage in the
communities where SFD has invested and plans to invest in the future.

                                Table 5.b - Staffing patterns for SFD schools

                                                               Ex-Post       Baseline
                         Number of staff (total)                   16.7         31.9
                         % qualified/all teachers                83.6%         77.6%
                         % permanent/all teachers                95.0%         97.1%
                         % qualified & permanent                 80.0%         75.8%
                         % teachers/ all staff                   83.8%         86.8%
                         % female teachers                       17.9%         39.4%
                         % administrative staff                  13.8%          9.1%

Absenteeism of staff is very low, with attendance rates of 94-96 percent in the ex-post schools and 96-97
percent in the baseline schools for which records were available for the day of the survey and the previous
five days.

Nor does textbook supply appear to be a problem. The availability of textbooks was assessed by grade for
5 subjects: Arabic, Mathematics, Sciences, Arts, and Islamic Studies. Ex-post schools had an average of
1.0 book per student per subject (except 0.7 for Arts) while baseline schools had an average of 1.3-1.4
book per student per subject (except 1.1 for Arts). The ex-post schools have 0.87 seats per student (the
figure is1.12 in baseline schools). But this appears to be due to multiple shift use of the facilities, rather




                                                     - 48 -

than indicating a need for more investment in this area. Evening shifts increase the number of students by
57 percent in the baseline schools, but only by 23 percent in the ex-post schools. Taking this into account,
ex-post schools may now have approximately the right amount of space, provided they continue with the
two shift system, while baseline schools may be able to welcome even more students. .

There is also evidence of a reasonably high level of parental involvement in the schools SFD is supporting.
A parents maintenance committee exists in 63 percent of the ex-post schools and 60 percent of the baseline
schools. In the last twelve months this committee has met on average three and 3.5 times, respectively.
The following are the issues most commonly mentioned as problematic in the schools, issues that the
committees should address:

                           Table 5.c - Operating problems identified in schools

                        Problem identified (% mentioned)               Ex-post       Baseline
                  Crowded classes                                           56.3         46.4
                  Insufficient number of teachers                           40.6         25.0
                  No fence                                                  31.3
                  Scarcity of w ater                                        21.9
                  No administrative building                                15.6
                  No school/office furniture                                15.6         53.6
                  No teacher residence                                      12.5
                  No library                                                12.5         14.3
                  No support for school                                     12.5         17.9
                  activities/laboratories
                  No concern for maintenance                                             14.3

5.2      Health Projects
(21 in ex-post group, 24 in baseline group)

 Health centers in the baseline survey tend to serve a wider population (13,497 people on average) than
facilities in the ex-post group (10,155 persons), and more communities (51.7 vs 18.6).             Four health
facilities surveyed in the baseline group were reported as serving between 100 and 400 villages or
sub-villages and may correspond to large urban settlements. This suggests that SFD is now intervening in
somewhat larger facilities than it did in the early years of its operation, but that they remain concentrated in
dispersed rural populations.

Water supply remains an important problem, and it has not been resolved in all the SFD-supported
facilities. Only 50 percent of the ex-post clinics had water supply within the building or the compound and
for those without water, the next source was 2.3km away (a 47 minutes walk on average). A similar
proportion of clinics had electricity from a main line, but 62 percent of the ex-post facilities could benefit
from a generator located in the clinic (only 4 percent of the baseline clinics could do that), suggesting that
SFD has helped in this regard.

Table 5.d shows the average staff composition of the health facilities surveyed:

                              Table 5.d - Staffing patterns of health facilities




                                                     - 49 -

                           Category of staff                Ex-post      Baseline
                           Physicians                              0.9         1.9
                           Professional nurses                     0.3         0.9
                           Midwives                                1.8         1.3
                           Auxiliary nurses                        0.3         0.8
                           Medical Assistants                      1.0         1.0
                           Others     (health    guides,           4.6         4.5
                           cleaners, escorts, others)
                           Total                                   8.9        10.4
                           Number of facilities                     21          14

Once again, the pattern is similar between the two surveyed groups and generally suggests that staffing has
not been an undermining constraint. Roughly half (48 percent) of the facilities in the ex- post group have a
doctor (57 percent in the baseline group) and 57 percent have a midwife in each group. Two-thirds of the
doctors are male. Medical assistants (all male) are present in 71 percent of the ex-post facilities and 57
percent of baseline clinics. Professional and auxiliary nurses (all female) are only present in between 19
and 29 percent of facilities, in proportion similar in both groups. Overall, the average ex-post facility has
4.3 professional health staff, while this number is 5.9 for the baseline facilities (again the difference is
consistent with the projects' location).

However, there is some evidence of a greater use of temporary and volunteer staff in the ex-post than the
new baseline sample, suggesting the need for a further effort to provision the necessary budget for the
hiring of permanent staff. In the Ex-post facilities, 16 percent of staff is temporary and 10 percent are
volunteers. The corresponding figures for the baseline facilities are 4 and 7 percent. The proportion of
permanent staff is lowest for physicians and professional nurses in both groups.

As in the education sector, staff absenteeism (for the persons assigned to the facilities) does not appear to
be a major problem. Over the five previous days (including the day of the survey), the proportion of staff
presence by category, calculated over a maximum number of potential days of presence, was as follows:
-        physicians:                98 and 77%
-        professional nurses:     100 and 98%
-        midwives:                  91 and 94%
-        medical assistants:      100 and 97%
-        auxiliary nurses:        100 and 100%
in the ex-post and the baseline group, respectively.

The presence of selected categories of staff apparently enhances the capacity of facilities to provide a wider
range of services Unless, what is equally probable, physicians and midwives are located preferentially in larger
centres that, per se, provide more services.. Table 5.e shows the proportion of each type of service being
provided by all facilities, then by facilities with physicians and facilities with midwives (10 and 8
respectively). As can be seen in the table, the presence of physicians and/or midwives is associated with a
10-30 percentage point increase in the availability of specific services.




                                                     - 50 -

                       Table 5.e - Variation in service mix by presence of selected staff

Variation in service mix by presence of selected staff
                                            Ex-post                                    Baseline
Type of Service                  All      With Physician  With Midwife    All        With Physician With Midwife
Morbidity                          100.0%       100.0%         100.0%       100.0%          100.0%        100.0%
Prenatal care                      57.1%         80.0%          80.0%         64.3%          87.5%         87.5%
Delivery (at facility)             61.9%        100.0%          70.0%         50.0%          62.5%         75.0%
Delivery at home                   66.7%         80.0%          70.0%         64.3%          75.0%         75.0%
Family planning                    57.1%         70.0%          80.0%         50.0%          75.0%         62.5%
Growth Monitoring                  47.6%         60.0%          60.0%         35.7%          62.5%         50.0%
MCH                                47.6%         70.0%          70.0%         50.0%          87.5%         75.0%
TT Immunization                    76.2%         80.0%          90.0%       100.0%          100.0%        100.0%
Child Vaccinations                 76.2%         80.0%          90.0%         92.9%          87.5%         87.5%
Hepatitis Vaccination              61.9%         80.0%          80.0%         78.6%          87.5%         87.5%
Lab service                        57.1%         80.0%          70.0%         42.9%          62.5%         75.0%
X ray service                      14.3%         30.0%          30.0%         14.3%          25.0%         25.0%
other service                      38.1%         40.0%          30.0%         35.7%          50.0%         62.5%

Health facilities start their morning shift between 7.30 and 8.30 am (80 and 85 percent start at 8.00 am
respectively); the evening shift is more variable, with about 50 percent of the facilities starting between
3.00 and 4.00 pm. In the week before the survey, where data were available, there did not seem to be a
major problem related to closing of facilities: one out of 21 ex-post clinics was closed during three days for
an immunization campaign, while 2 of the 14 reporting baseline facilities had a one-day closing linked to
staff vacations.

However, not all services are provided every day. In the 35 clinics where data were available (105 days for
21 ex-post and 70 days for 14 baseline facilities), the following table shows the proportion of days when
services were offered during the day of the survey and the four previous working days:

                             Table 5.f - Frequency of health services provided

                           Service provided                     Ex-post    Baseline
                           Morbidity consultation (OPD)               97           91
                           Prenatal care                              28           31
                           Child Development Clinic                   18           16
                           Family Planning                            37           19
                           Vaccinations                               48           31
                           Deliveries                                 35           26
                           Average number of                         10.9        28.3
                           patients/day

As can be seen from the table above, the daily, integrated, delivery of services, especially of preventative
services, is far from being ensured, implying that people/families with the need for those services may have
to come on several occasions to the facility in order to satisfy those needs. The production figures,
partially as a consequence of this lack of availability of integrated services, is still low, especially in the
ex-post clinics (again, the difference may be linked to the preferentially rural location of SFD projects):
assuming that the surveyed facility is the only source for the provision of health services, that the flux of
patients observed at the time of survey is representative of the overall utilization, that services are delivered




                                                       - 51 -

260 days per year, and using the average number of population served, the resulting utilization rate is 0.28
consultations per year per person for the ex-post facilities and 0.55 for the baseline facilities, a very low
rate by all standards.

Information related to equipment and drug supplies in the health centers was also available for 21 ex-post
facilities and 13 baseline facilities. From a list of 18 basic pieces of equipment, an average of 15.6 (86.5
percent) was found in the ex-post facilities and 11.3 (62.8 percent) in the baseline facilities. Of the
equipment available in the facilities, 83 percent was deemed in good condition, 15.2 percent in medium
condition and 1.9 percent in poor condition for the ex-post group. Corresponding figures for the baseline
group were 61.5, 32.4 and 6.1 percent, respectively. Items most often in a state of disrepair included infant
scales, sphyngmomanometers and sthetoscopes in the ex-post group and refrigerators, thermometers and
scissors in the baseline group.

As the main project respondents had observed that they knew the project had supplied medical equipment in
20 out of 21 ex-post facilities, it seems that this provision has been effective in improving the situation of
beneficiary facilities to this respect.

Availability of drug supplies constitutes an essential element of the perceived quality of health services and
a powerful motivator for increased use of services. The evaluation process surveyed the availability of a
sample of 42 essential drugs, vaccines and medical supplies. Ex-post facilities had on average 55 percent
of the products available, while baseline facilities had 51.8 percent. Most often stocked-out drugs and
supplies included dermatological products (calamine lotion, benzoic salicylate), contraceptives (combined
pills and condoms), folic acid, oral penicillin tablets. Items such as aspirin and paracetamol tablets,
cotrimoxazol, chloroquine, ferrous sulphate, metronidazole, ORS and tetracycline ointment were found
more consistently. However, none of the facilities had a perfect score (zero stock out), nor was any specific
drug available in all visited facilities. Each type of vaccine was out of stock in one-quarter to one-third of
the sampled facilities. Curiously, the lack of medicines does not appear as one of the main concerns of the
respondents, as manifested below.

There were health committees in 67 percent of the ex-post clinics and 46 percent of the baseline clinics.
Those committees had met on average 4.9 and 5.4 times over the previous twelve months. The problem
issues mentioned by the informants are tabulated in Table 5.g.

               Table 5.g - Operating problems identified in health facilities project survey
                                     ( percent that mentioned each problem)
                                       Problem                           Ex-post      Baseline
               Non availability/shortage of staff                             66.7        47.6
               No water/water far from facility                               28.6          9.5
               Low level of health awareness                                   9.5        28.6
               Non availability/shortage of medical equipment                 23.8        14.3
               No laboratory/operations theater                               23.8          9.5
               Financial problems (no incentives, no budget, etc)             23.8        19.0
               Non availability/shortage of furniture/equipment                4.8        19.0
               Delay in completing project                                     4.8        19.0
               Non availability/shortage of medicines                         14.3          0.0
               No guard                                                       14.3          0.0
               Building not completed                                          4.8        14.3

Clearly, shortage of staff is the main concern. Water supply is the second-ranked problem in the ex-post



                                                      - 52 -

group, while baseline facilities are worried about the lack of awareness with regards to health matters,
which probably accounts for not having yet an ongoing health project, and several complained about delays
in the start of the project. Ex-post facilities are more concerned about operational issues for their
new/renovated buildings. Lack of drugs is not perceived as a major problem in either group.

5.3     Water projects
(19 projects in ex-post group and 27 projects in baseline group)

Water projects in the ex-post group are of two types: piped water systems (42 percent) and water
harvesting systems (58 percent). However, projects in the pipeline, that is in the baseline group, are almost
exclusively water harvesting projects (92 percent), which correspond more to the emphasis on the need of
the poorest communities. Most of the projects do not treat water (three out of 19 in the ex-post group,
using either sand filter, chlorine or fish pond).

Electro-mechanical equipment is used in nine (47 percent) of the ex-post sites, with 72 percent of the
pumps reported in good shape.         Only four baseline sites currently use pumps, which were in good
conditions.

Payment for water is a feature of the newly completed projects, with eight projects charging for water (42
percent): payments were found to be timely in 61 percent of the cases or with a 2-4 month delay in 29
percent of the cases. Only one project in the baseline group was charging for water.

Water systems, after intervention, had a staff of 6.4 persons on average, of whom 2.4 were professionally
qualified.

The SFD projects have had a very positive impact on coverage of the water systems. The water benefits on
average 9.8 communities in the ex-post group and 7.7 in the baseline group. Reports from 18 of the 19
ex-post projects showed that the number of persons covered increased on average from 1,251 to 3,251 per
project (a 160 percent increase) while the number of covered households increased from 109 to 328 (201
percent). The proportion of households with tap water in their dwelling was reported (from 15 projects) to
increase from 6.3 to 35.1 percent, while the proportion of those with a tap available less than 100m from
their dwelling increased to 19.5 percent. The SFD intervention also led to a clear increase in per-capita
consumption of water and frequency of supply, according to recall data for the situation prior to
intervention gathered in the project survey (Table 5.h).

                       Table 5.h - Changes in water production and service outputs

                                                                  Ex-post                     Baseline
                                                      Before       After       # projects     Before
      Daily per capita consumption last year              26.6       63.1          18             36.8
      Daily per capita consumption last mth               26.4       35.1          18             67.8
      # operating hrs/day in rainy season                  2.6         6.8         9                2.0
      # operating days/mth in rainy season                 8.2       21.0          9              20.0
      # operating hrs/day in dry season                    2.7         7.9         9                1.0
      # operating days/mth in dry season                  10.7       21.9          9              12.3
      # operating hrs/day last month                       0.9       14.8          9                1.7

The findings of the study on sustainability are also positive. As one would expect, the upgrading of the
systems led to an increase in their running costs, by 200 percent on average, due to the use of



                                                    - 53 -

electromechanical pumps and the need to buy spare parts for those pumps. However, average revenue
generation rose by a much greater factor, of 500 percent. There is still a shortfall of revenue: on average,
revenue is 65 percent of the total cost. However, before the SFD intervention, on average, revenues were
only 34 percent of estimated costs (table 5.i). These findings suggest that the electromechanical network
systems that were supported by SFD in the early period of its work were relatively sustainable. This runs
counter to perceived wisdom in the SFD at present. Based on concerns about sustainability, the SFD has
decided to concentrate almost exclusively on non-mechanized water harvesting schemes.

                       Table 5.i­ Operating costs and revenues for water systems

                                                        Before     After         # Projects
               Operating & Maintenance costs
               Staff                                    33,666     40,100          6 / 10
               Electricity                                    0          44        6 / 10
               Diesel/gasoline                          37,733     47,422          6 / 10
               Chemicals                                      0            0       6 / 10
               Spare parts                                    0  185,906           6 / 10
               Other                                    34,667     24,940          6 / 10
               Total                                   106,666   298,412           6 / 10
               Revenues
               # beneficiaries                             183      1,219             9
               Charge/beneficiary/month                   133.1     328.1             9
               Charge per cubic meter                     117.2     170.7             9
               Total bill value for last month          57,902   102,841              9
               Total revenues for last month            36,337   191,937              9

There is also positive evidence regarding the creation of community water committees. In the ex post
sample, 84 percent and in the new baseline sample, 74 percent of the projects are managed by a
Community Water committee. Table 5.j summarizes the operating problems encountered with the water
systems, according to the project survey informant.

                     Table 5.j - Operating problems identified in water subprojects

                       Problem identified (% mentioned)                Ex-post       Baseline
              Project location far from beneficiaries                        0.0          23.1
              Water leakage                                                 21.1          11.5
              Defects in finishing of cistern walls/bottom                  21.1           0.0
              Cistern/well without cover                                    21.1           0.0
              Non availability of other equipment                           21.1           0.0
              Delay in implementation                                        0.0          19.2
              Low capacity due to low depth/low # of wells                  15.8          11.5
              Community unable to contribute/different opinion              10.5          15.4
              Cistern above water level                                     10.5           3.8
              Pipe network deteriorated                                     10.5           3.8
              Pipe network insufficient to cover all households             10.5           3.8
              Insufficient/misuse of financial resources                    10.5           7.7



5.4     Rural road projects
(14 projects in ex-post group, 19 projects in baseline).



                                                    - 54 -

SFD support mainly consisted of building or upgrading rural access roads (13 out of the 14 ex-post
projects and 13 out of the 19 intended projects in the baseline group). Other interventions included
drainage work and road widening. The average length of the roads being supported was 16.8km in the
ex-post group and 8.5km for the pipeline projects. Road projects served on average 19.5 communities The
average number of communities served is given after eliminating one outlier project allegedly serving 2,000
communities in the ex-post group and two projects serving 250 communities in the baseline group, and 16,771
people in the ex-post groups, and 29.2 communities and 40,261 persons in the baseline group.

Notwithstanding the persistence of problems, the survey results suggest that these projects have had a very
positive impact on journey times (reducing them on average by 40 percent). It should be borne in mind that
these findings are based on the recall of the interviewee in the completed projects, which might be thought less
reliable than baseline data collected prior to the project's implementation. (Table 5.k). Household level data
from dwellers living in subproject confirm that travel times have been greatly reduced. According to their
responses, the time needed to get to the nearest town market has decreased due to the SFD intervention
from 289 to 193 minutes, a 33 percent reduction (based on observations from 304 households). The key
informant interview data suggest that there was little change in the nominal cost of journeys, but Household
level responses suggest a significant reduction in the cost of travel, from YR488 to 290 (a 40 percent
reduction). There is no evidence of sharp reductions in the cost of basic commodities imported to the
villages.

                                Table 5.k - Outputs of rural roads subprojects

                                                                     Ex-post              Baseline
                                                               Before         After       Before
             Cost of transport to nearest city/suq                200.0        244.3        233.2
             Time spent (in minutes)                              201.5        121.8        112.1
             Vehicles using the road/day                           15.9         45.6          30.5
             Cost of one bottle of LPG gas                        367.9        357.1        388.4
             Cost of one sack of wheat                         2,110.7        2496.1      2,534.2



The reduction in travel time and cost has led to a sharp increase in the number of trips per day, which is up,
on average, by 180 percent. Household level data were collected for the weekly number of trips to the
nearest market/town undertaken by each family member before and after the intervention, classifying those
trips according to their motive, for better recall. These data show an increase of 120 percent in the number
of trips (Table 5.l). It is particularly heartening that much of the increase in trips is due to visits to market
local production to town, which should contribute to poverty reduction.

                   Table 5.l - Number of weekly trips to main town by category of trip




                                                      - 55 -

                Average # of weekly trips for:             Now         Before     Difference
                   Shopping                                    0.8          0.5           0.3
                   Marketing                                   1.9          0.2           1.8
                   Working                                     0.7          0.6           0.2
                   Learning                                    0.3          0.2           0.1
                   Visiting friends/relatives                  0.2          0.1           0.2
                   Health                                      0.2          0.2           0.1
                  Religion                                     0.0          0.0           0.0
                   Other                                       0.1          0.1           0.1
                   Total                                       4.2          1.9           2.8

The findings on sustainability are also positive. There is an agreement with the community for road
maintenance in 86 percent of the ex-post projects and 58 percent of the baseline group. A maintenance
follow-up committee has been formed in 8 ex-post projects, but training has only occurred in one.
Community leaders (shaikhs) and more rarely local councils or a charitable organization can also be
responsible for maintenance. Three projects mention that beneficiaries contribute YR100 per month for the
maintenance costs. Maintenance of the road is performed most often in a periodic fashion (75 percent of
projects in the ex-post group).

5.5     Micro Finance Projects
(11 projects in the ex-post group)

Eight out of the 11 micro finance projects were run by an NGO and two by a cooperative. The SFD
financed grants for technical assistance and training in four of these projects, and provided grants for seed
capital and loans for on - lending in all 11 (Table 5.m).

                        Table 5.m - Type and amount of support received by SFD
                                                      # of projects    Average amount
                                                                         received (YR)
                   Grant for TA and training               4                      160,945
                   Grant for seed/capital                  11                   3,484,725
                   Loans for lending                       11                 13,747,216
                   Other support                           10                   1,853,993
                   Total                                   11                 19,246,879



The governance of the supported microfinance organizations is generally adequate, although the frequency
of board meetings is rather low in some cases. Board members are normally nominated by the General
Assembly of the sponsoring agency/cooperative. Information obtained from ten of the projects shows that
project boards have an average of 7.4 members, with a mean age of 42 years and a majority of female
members (4 versus 3.4 men). The boards meet annually (check this is not monthly) in 7 projects and
quarterly in 3 projects. Board members do not receive salary or attendance fees; in two cases, they receive
transportation allowance or reimbursement of expenses; in one case, they get an incentive on the fund's
production. The average project has 369 borrowers and 29 savers (table 5.n).

                    Table 5.n ­ Average number of beneficiaries by type of operations




                                                     - 56 -

                                             Loans                    Savings                 Training
                                          #         # proj.         #       # proj.         #        # proj.
                                       benef.                    benef.                 benef.
                   Male                    226             7          59           3
                   Female                  116           10         258            6          23            1
                   Total                   369           11           29           6          23            1

 Note: # beneficiaries is averaged over 11 project; # proj. is the number of projects reporting the beneficiaries in each type of
                                                             activity.

The record of the MF institutions in saving mobilization was not strong: only 1.5 percent of the loan
portfolio was funded by members' savings. SFD loans and grants and 96 percent was funded by SFD loans
or grants (Table 5.o).

                              Table 5.o - Source of funds for micro finance projects
                                                                # projects        Average amount
                                                                                          (YR)
                      Beneficiary savings                             4                        294,400
                      Grant from sponsoring                           2                        107,265
                      agency
                      SFD loan                                       11                   13,646,366
                      SFD grant                                      11                      4,565,759
                      Other                                           3                        395,259
                      Total                                                               19,005,049



The current value of the loan portfolio is estimated at YR 11,257,736. The average number of loans is 383
(range 120 - 1,385), and the average value of the loans is YR 29,394. Six of the 11 projects work with the
"murabaha" type loan, while one is using the "musharaka" modality; five projects use ordinary interest
mechanisms. The maximum amount of the first loan ranges from YR 20-100,000, while subsequent loans
may reach YR 250,000. The minimum term for the loans is 6 months (190 days on average), while the
maximum is just over a year (374 days on average), with a mean loan duration of 279 days (9 months).
Loans are used for trade (11 projects), manufacturing (9), animal raising (5), agriculture (4), family and
personal consumption (1) and other activities including services and maintenance.

All projects have credit regulations available and all but one also have program statutes. The six projects
that have a saving component also have savings regulations. Accounting documents include cash book,
loan and saving books, as well as shareholder register (in 4 projects). Four of the projects use accounting
software, mostly an Excel-based package. All but one of the projects had up-to-day accounts at the time of
the survey.

Sanctions are applied to loan defaulters including fines (7 projects), exclusion from future loans (all
projects) and execution of the guarantee (8 projects; all projects require a guarantee before they provide a
loan). Only one project allows refinancing of loans that have run in arrears and has a total of 51 such
loans, for a total amount of YR364,018. Seventy five percent of loans made by these projects have been
fully repaid; of those that are still outstanding, half are being repaid on time and half are in arrears (Table
5.p).

                                         Table 5.p - Status of project loans




                                                              - 57 -

Status of loans                                      Number of             Percent          Total Amount
                                                        loans                                  Percent
Fully repaid                                             708                 67             29,279,61975
Being paid on time                                       172                 16            4,854,75912.5
In arrears                                               172                 16            4,869,45512.5
Total                                                   1,052               100            39,003,833100


None of the projects surveyed had an ongoing training program. Six of the projects have a saving
component; saving is a prerequisite for getting a loan and savers get priority in obtaining the loan. There is
on average 501.8 saving accounts per project for a total amount of YR958,614, that is an average saving
account of YR1,910. The interest rate of the saving accounts varies between 6 and 10 percent. Savings are
used for financing program loans (3 projects) or deposited in a bank (5 projects).

Micro finance projects had an average staff of nine. Staff salaries ranged from YR15,070 to 74,938 for
men and from YR5,573 to 38,416 for women, with a variation factor of 1.3 to 2.4 for the same staff
category.

        Table 5.q - Number of borrowers and savers per project (based on reporting projects)

                                                     2001                              2002
                                           Number          Reporting         Number           Reporting
                                                            projects                           projects
                             Male               490.4           5                 299.9            8
      Borrowers              Female              93.3           5                 126.6            11
                             Total              583.8           5                 339.3            11
                             Male                44.0           1                   39.7           6
      Savers                 Female             152.0           1                 331.5            6
                             Total              196.0           1                 322.7            6



The consolidated balance sheet and financial statements for the SFD's MF projects (Table 5.r) shows a
sharp contraction in total assets between 2001 and 2002 (by 32 percent), linked above all to a reduction of
the loan portfolio (by over 60 percent). This is reflected partly in a reduction of other liabilities, but mainly
in a reduction in the capital account for other capital contributions, of some 8 million YR.

This adjustment is not, however, reflected in the profit and loss account for 2002, which shows an
improved performance, registering a deficit of only YR720,000, following a significant deficit in 2001 (1.5
million YR). These incongruencies seem to show that there are still weaknesses in the accounting
procedures (above all for capital accounts) being used by the MF institutions, but that their profit and loss
performance has improved through cost reductions in 2002.

           Table 5.r - Micro finance projects ­ Consolidated financial statements (CHECK)




                                                     - 58 -

                            YR                           End of 2001               End of 2002
                                               Balance sheet
       Assets
       Cash and banks                                          4,835,120                  6,079,137
       Loan portfolio                                         23,377,056                  8,831,270
       Fixed assets                                            3,364,426                  1,952,502
       Other                                                   6,016,917                  8,671,608
       Total                                                  37,593,519                25,534,517
       Liabilities
       Members savings                                            102,916                   512,263
       Loans from financial institutions                                                    642,809
       Other liabilities                                       8,210,847                  3,913,853
       Total                                                   8,313,043                  5,068,925
       Capital
       Start-up capital                                        6,502,987                  3,359,355
       Other capital contributions                            20,959,904                12,782,800
       Donations and grants                                    2,866,495                  2,390,973
       Total                                                  30,329,386                18,533,128
                                        Profit and loss statement
       Operating income
       From interest on loan and loan portfolio                3,031,264                  1,758,095
       Other charges to clients                                   117,459                     66,417
       Investment outside loan portfolio                          194,130                   338,824
       Total                                                   3,420,976                  2,021,760
       Operating expenses
       Operating expenses                                           80,775                  364,655
       Interest paid to savers                                                                 3,405
       Administrative costs ­ staff                            3,082,618                  1,983,933
       Other administrative costs                              1,660,493                  1,070,036
       Total                                                  4,951,1129                  2,742,345
       Non-operational income and expenditure
       Income                                                     198,874                     58,803
       Expenses                                                   315,016                   109,400




6       SFD Impact on Household-level Development Indicators

6.1     Methodology

The analysis covers a total of 86 projects for which suitable information was available in the household
survey dataset. In addition, new baseline data were collected on a set of 101 projects in the SFD pipeline at
January 2003.
6.2     Education

Yemen has a low gross enrollment rate for primary education, especially in rural areas and especially
among girls, as shown in the following table, obtained form the Yemen Demographic and Health Survey
(DHS) of 1997.




                                                   - 59 -

                           Table 6.a - Yemen gross enrollment rates ( percent)
                              Urban                         Rural                           Total
    Age                Boys           Girls          Boys           Girls           Boys           Girls
    6-10               80.2          75.9            63.4           31.5            67.1           41.2
    11-15              90.2          74.6            81.4           25.7            83.6           38.4
    Total              85.1          75.3            71.5           29.0            74.8           39.9



In this context, the SFD's school building investments aim to increase enrollment rates in the beneficiary
communities. The study hypothesis is that the SFD intervention would result in an increase of the gross
enrollment rate for children between the ages of 6 to 14.

Table 6.b reports the enrollment rate for children aged 6 to 14 found in the 1999 NPS and the 2003 IES
surveys in the beneficiary communities of the SFD's education projects. The comparison between the
ex-post and baseline enrollment rates in the 1999 dataset has already been reported in the previous Impact
Evaluation study presented in December 2002, which showed that there was a much higher female
enrollment rate in beneficiary communities than in those still waiting for the SFD investment and this led to
an increase of about 5 percent in the overall enrollment rate. Multivariate analysis suggested that this
difference was attributable to the SFD intervention and not to sampling differences.

The 2003 IES allows us to compare the enrollment rate before and after the SFD intervention in the group
of communities that was in the 1999 baseline sample. This comparison once again indicates a very clear
increase in the enrollment rate for girls where the SFD investments were made, from 42.1 percent in 1999
to 56.0 percent in 2003. There is also a small increase in male enrollment (from 76.4 percent to 78.0
percent and the overall rate rises from 60.1 percent to 67.8 percent. This is a very positive finding,
reconfirming that the SFD is making an important difference to one of the most critical development
indicators in Yemen.


Table 6.b - Comparison of enrollment statistics between 1999 and 2003

    1999 NPS analysis                Ex-post                 Baseline
                                 M       F      T        M       F       T
                               78.2    49.3   64.7     76.4    42.1    60.1
    2003 IES                                                 Ex-post                 Baseline
                                                         M       F       T      M        F       T
                                                       78.0    56.0    67.8    77.3     58.3   68.0



Of particular note is the increase in female enrollment rates observed between the 1999 baseline and the
2003 ex-post during the first years of basic schooling, corresponding to the time frame of the project
implementation. The motivation for keeping girl children in school starts with the initial years of schooling
and the observed pattern will create a dynamics of its own that will contribute to better achievements up to
the end of the basic schooling and beyond.

6.3     Health

Factors believed to contribute to low levels of utilization of health services in rural areas of Yemen include:
the inexistence of facilities in many areas, the difficulty of access to the facilities that do exist, the poor




                                                     - 60 -

quality of the services on offer and the lack of awareness among the population of the importance of
primary health care.

The variable chosen for analysis was the overall probability that a person will receive curative medical
attention when facing a health problem (rather than the probability that they will use the particular health
post supported by SFD). This assures that SFD is not credited for "crowding out" demand from other
centers, but only for increasing the total take-up of primary health care services.

The IES survey recorded the health problems of each household member during the past month, identifying
the type of problem and whether it was severe enough to cause the person affected to stop their normal
activities. In the sample of households from the ex-post group, 492 problems were identified and in the
baseline group, 644 problems were reported. Table 6.c reports the number and type of problems
encountered.

                          Table 6.c - Incidence of health problems in the IES sample

                                            Ex-post      Baseline

                                                 % of total
            Number of persons                3,110        3,453

            % with a health problem in last  15.8%        18.7%
            month
            Number of problems                492          644
            Type of problem:
              Malaria                         134          246
              Diarrhea                        69           72
              E.N.T condition                 94           115
              Rheumatism                      29           36
              Skin condition                  19           15
              Diabetes, blood pressure        13           13
              Accident/injury                  9           16
              Eye condition                   12           17
              Other conditions                113          114
            Source: IES 2003.

The proportion of people who suffered an illness or accident in the month previous to the survey is slightly
higher in the baseline group (18.7 percent versus 15.8 percent, CIdiff 0.7 percent - 5.1 percent). The
proportions were similar for both genders, and were higher among rural than among urban people in each
group (19.8 versus 11.3 percent in the baseline group and 17.1 percent against 8.3 percent in the ex-post
group).

Table 6.d shows the reported effective access to medical attention for those in the ex-post communities
compared with the 1999 NPS data. The proportion of sick individuals who managed to receive health care
for their illness rose from 55.6 percent to 70.3 percent in the current ex-post group (which was the baseline
group in the 1999 survey). In this case similar increases were recorded for both men and women. This is a
clear and positive conclusion regarding the SFD's impact on access to primary health care.




                                                       - 61 -

                 Table 6.d - Evolution of care-seeking practices between 1999 and 2003

    1999 NPS analysis                Ex-post                Baseline
                                M      F        T      M        F      T
                              56.7    58.1    56.0    53.6    54.7   55.6
    2003 IES                                                 Ex-post              Baseline
                                                       M        F      T      M       F       T
                                                      73.1    68.1   70.3    73.9    69.6    71.7




As in the case of the data on education access reported above, the observed access rate in the new 2003
baseline dataset is much higher than that observed in the 1999 baseline group and not dissimilar from the
ex-post conditions in the communities that received investments between 1999 and 2003. This may reflect a
change in the sort of place SFD invests in: it may be moving towards places where it is easier to deal with
the sustainability problems that dogged its early efforts in primary health, and such places may have better
ex-ante access conditions.

6.4     Water projects

The IES 2003 collected data at household level on the type of water system used, the perceptions on
quantity and quality of water available to the households before and after interventions, the cost of water,
the distance and time needed to fetch water for people without a household connection, and the incidence of
diarrhea.

Table 6.e shows the distribution of sampled households from water project areas, according to the type of
water system they use for their residence before and after intervention (actually without intervention for the
baseline group). Although we already mentioned the emphasis of the SFD subprojects in improving water
harvesting systems, we can observe in the ex-post group an increase in the proportion of households getting
water from a tap located in their own dwelling, associated with a decrease in the use of cisterns or tanks
without pump and/or well or dam water outside of the compound. The SFD intervention increased access to
household taps (+23 percent), replacing cisterns without handpumps (-8 percent) or with handpumps (-4
percent) and wells/dams off the premises (-11 percent).




                                                    - 62 -

Table 6.e - Distribution of households by main source of water, before and after SFD interventions
for rural areas

                                                Drinking water               Water for domestic use
                                           Ex-post          Baseline         Ex-post          Baseline
                                        Before   After   Before    After  Before    After  Before    After
       Piped water with                    3.4    26.0      5.3              3.4    24.7      4.5
    household tap
       Piped service with public         11.6     12.7      2.6              7.5    15.8      1.8
    tap
      Cistern/spring/tank w ith            6.2     2.1      8.1              7.2     3.1      7.5
    hand pump
      Cistern/spring/tank w /o hand      27.7     19.5     46.4             33.2    19.2     48.3
    pump
      Well on the premises                 2.7     2.7      3.2              2.4     2.4      3.2
       Well/dam off the                  29.5     18.5     29.2             30.8    18.8     32.1
    premises
       Tanker                            17.1     15.4      4.9             15.4    16.1      2.6
    Number of households                     292              507              292              507



37.7 percent of the 345 households in the ex-post group said that the quantity of water available is much
more than before; 48.3 percent found no significant change, while 9.0 percent thought that it was less
abundant. The quality of available water was deemed better in 25.5 percent of the households, unchanged
in 47.8 percent and worse in 16.9 percent.

For those households which indicated that they had to go outside to fetch water, the average consumption
was estimated at 12.9 containers of an average size of 17.6 liters, which would yield a total daily amount of
227 liters, that is an average of 30 liters per person per day (using an average of 7.5 persons per household.
For those households, there were clear gains in the reduction of the average distance needed to fetch water
outside of the dwelling (from 1,166 meters on average to 871 meters, for the 177 reporting households) and
in the corresponding time needed to fetch the water (from 61.8 to 43.7mn for the 225 reporting
households).




                                                      - 63 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results


Republic of Yemen
Cabinet of Presidency Council
Social Fund for Development


                                        Consultative Workshop on the
                                 Partners and -Target Group Experiences
                                        During the SFDs' First Phase

                                             Analytical Matrix of
                                  The Target Groups/Partners Experiences

                                         Sana'a, September 20, 2003

This Analytical Matrix was conducted by the participants of the Consultative Workshop, which was held
                                         in Sana'a on Sep. 20, 2003.



Objective of the workshop: To document the experiences and experimentations of the target groups and
partners during the first and second phases of the SFD.

Expected outcomes of the workshop:
1. Recoding and documenting experience of SFD (1st phase) from viewpoint of the target groups and
partners;
2. Arriving at a clear analysis of the SFD experience from viewpoint of the target groups; and
3. Elaboration of an accurate matrix showing various elements of the SFD experience with the target
groups.

Method used for the workshop:
The method used in the workshop is based mainly on encouraging the participants to express their opinions
and to actively participate in discussion. The use of Metaplan tools and visualization steps was very
successful and it greatly assisted in organizing and orienting a discussion toward the desired objectives. The
Metaplan method relies on using visual tools such as cards, boards, etc. The Objectives-Oriented Project
Planning GOPP (Ziel Orientierte Project Planning ZOPP) method was used within adaptation of the need of
such workshop style and expected results.

This method:
§Dependsonvisualization
§Facilitatesconcentratingondiscussionpoints
§Facilitatesmemorizationofthediscussionpoints
§Facilitatesavoidingrepetition
§Putsoutcomesofdiscussioninasimplecleartimetable
§Increasesparticipationindiscussion
§Facilitatesdocumentationandraisingdiscussiontowardsgoals
§Roleofthemoderatorassistsorganizingdiscussionwithinthegroupsandtimemanagement.




                                                     - 64 -

      Analytical Matrix of the Target Groups/ Partners Experience
First Group: Policy and Tools of Selection of Projects and Group Formation




                                   - 65 -

Topics of Successes      Weaknesses                    Suggestions (Proposed         Possible Risks
                                                       Solutions)                    (Assumptions)
Accurate and detailed    Obligatorily contribution of
sub-projects             beneficiaries led to          Review specification of

                         hindering implementation      contribution rate as a        Donors may reconsider
                         of the project; due to poor   policy of the SFD             support to the SFD
                         financial condition of        according to various areas

                         citizens                      conditions

Consider
sustainability factor in Inadequate awareness of
projects planning and    community
implementation

Working with             Sometimes the                 Study proposal and            Lower feeling of project
governmental             beneficiaries didn't pay      recommendation of the         ownership when
agencies as partners     their contribution which      parliament council            beneficiaries exempted
for the SFD activities   was paid by others            regarding the community
                                                       contribution                  from contribution

There is concentration   Future expansions were        Implement road projects

on education sector      not considered when           according to criteria of the
                         implementing rural roads      ministry of construction
                         SFD criteria for selection
Observe sustainability   of road projects are not
with regard to training  flexible with regard to
                         population
                                                       Consider capacities and
Covering of remote       Independency of the           transparency of some          Possibility that some
deprived areas by the    projects is limited and the   directions and minimize       directions may misuse
SFD activities           SFD interferes during the
                         implementation phase          degree of interference of     the authorizations
                                                       the SFD

Accuracy in              Some contractors delay        Apply conditions of

implementation of        implementation of the         contracts on all contractors

projects and simple      project from date             to ensure immediate

procedures               specified in the contract     implementation of the
                                                       projects without delays
                                                       Contacts with directions
                                                       concerned with
                         Lack of coordination          implementation of SFD
Transparency and         between some directions       activities for setting clear
following of advanced    concerned with                coordination mechanism
working mechanism        implementation of the                                       Donors and loan
                         projects                      Technical support for local
                                                       authority to raise its        providers might

                                                       planning capacity             disapprove this
                                                                                     direction
                         Water and water
                         harvesting projects were      Increase budget for water

                         given no great importance     and environment

                         Inadequate raising of         Intensify raising of
                         awareness regarding           awareness of the local
                         importance of                 authority and NGOs to
                         developmental and             raise awareness of the
                         service project in rural      local community regarding
                         areas                         policy of the SFD
                         Intensive monitoring
                         regarding loan projects in    Involve the surety direction
                         particular monitoring         in monitoring
                         minor details
                         Local councils are not        Stipulate employing local
                         informed when selecting       laborer in implementation     Delay in implementation
                         members of beneficiaries      of the project as much as     plus low quality
                         committees to involve all     possible



                                                    - 66 -

Beneficiaries experiences    Local councils shall
are not made use of during   supervise selection of
the project planning         beneficiaries of the projects.
                             Election of the beneficiaries
                             committees shall be carried
                             out according to criteria set
                             by the SFD. Committees
                             training and exchange of
                             experience.

Weak role of women in        The SFD continues

beneficiaries committees     application of project
                             selection criteria
                             Coordinate with local
                             councils to have access to
                             their information on different
                             regions
                             Add women to beneficiaries
                             committees




                          - 67 -

                 Second Group: Community, institution and women participation

Successes               Weaknesses                  Suggestions (Proposed        Possible Risks
                                                    Solutions)                   (Assumptions)

Pre-studies that led to                             A precondition is

success of the project                              participation of women in
                                                    beneficiaries committees
Considering                                         Raise community
community               Lack of seriousness         awareness regarding
participation in the    regarding women             women incorporation in
projects resulted in    participation               development
continuous concern                                  Increase number of
about the project                                   women consultants in the
(participation and                                  SFD and provide them         - Community rejects

ownership)                                          with good training           participation of women
                                                                                 in social work
                                                    Observe community            - Community rejection
Priorities are set by                               traditions to facilitate     due to some social
the beneficiaries                                   women in participation in    customs and traditions
                                                    field visits
                        Insufficient women cadre    Form diverse consultative
                        (as SFD consultants,        teams (women/ men)
Diversity in productive participants in community   during field screening
projects. And accurate  work)                       Accept and support that
technical work                                      some women consultants
regarding projects                                  being accompanied by
                                                    their relatives; in some
                                                    cases
Availability of an
administrative and                                  Select consultants

financial work                                      specialized in social field.

mechanism between                                   Give adequate time for

the SFD and the         Consultants missions are    consultants during field     - High cost of projects

target groups           inflexible regarding        visits                       led to delays in
                        (period and geographical                                 production
                        area) during the field      Give the consultants         - Increase in cost and
SFD policy of           sorting                     enough time in setting the   time
integrated                                          priorities and formation of
development                                         committees through
intervention                                        application of a field work
                                                    guide
Training in
administration and      Limited time for            Give raising of community    Lack of community

accounting for the      preparation of community    awareness regarding          interaction with the

administrative cadre of work during period of       importance of the project    awareness efforts and

projects (committees)   committees formation        enough time                  high cost

Concentration on
human capacity
building as a result of
the SFD cooperative
relation (training,
qualifying)                                         Capacity building: training
                        Weak institutional          on institutional structure
Activation of women     structure of NGOs.          for cadre implementing
role in projects
management after                                    joint projects with the SFD

being implemented
(accepting men and
women in project
management)




                                                 - 68 -

                                                                                   - Hindering
                                                                                   implementation of
Encouraging active                                                                 projects for some time
NGOs to assist in         Certain directions           Coordinate with the local   - Non acceptance and
projects                  monopolize the SFD           councils to avoid           marginalizing role of
implementation            projects                     influential figures         project executives and
                                                                                   hindering
                                                                                   implementation
Creating new social                                    Make available
attitude towards                                       requirements for field
community                                              team (transportation ...
participation                                          etc.)
Developing human                                       Review consultants tasks
resources and                                          in terms of time,
services in the                                        remuneration and area of
community                                              work
Giving women target
groups the chance to                                   Activate role of local
improve their living                                   community through
conditions through        Local communities don't      participation in planning,
participation and         accept with new ideas        implementation and
support received from                                  monitoring
donor institution
                                                       Study and analyze
                                                       community

Compensating                                           Continuous raising of

shortage of                                            community awareness

governmental services                                  during implementation of
                                                       projects
                                                       Develop simple

Continuous presenting     Community organizations      transparent administrative

technical support by      lack clear administrative    and accounting systems to

SFD when                  and accounting               organize committees

implementing projects     regulations                  work. Train members of
                                                       committees on these
                                                       systems
Starting policy of                                     Define specific ratios as
participation of target                                operating costs according
groups in projects                                     to region geographical and
implementation                                         social conditions
                                                                                   Consultants are

The SFD has qualified     Priorities presented by      Thorough study of           unqualified in field of

cadre                     the local community were                                 integrated analysis for
                          not studied thoroughly       priorities                  problems of the target
                                                                                   regions
                                                       Consultants shall take into
Adopting pogroms that                                  consideration factors that
facilitate participation                               would made the
of women in                                            implemented project a part
community work                                         of a successful integrated
                                                       development

Creating work             Beneficiaries can not        Pre-coordination with local
opportunities for         make proper priorities for   councils and concerned
people in target areas    projects needed for their
                          communities                  parties

Training committees
on social work
Flexibility in approval
of institutional projects
based on priorities of
surety directions




                                                    - 69 -

SFD projects expanded
to remote areas didn't
reached by other
institutions in
comparatively a short
period of time




                          - 70 -

  Third Group: Operation, Repair, Monitoring and Evaluation (Sustainability and Quality)

Successes                   Weaknesses                  Suggestions (Proposed        Possible Risks
                                                        Solutions)                   (Assumptions)
Depending on
beneficiaries committees
in operation and repair is
one of the successes of                                 Active technical capacity

the SFD                                                 building program for
                                                        members of beneficiaries
1. Period span between                                  committees
resenting request and start
of implementation didn't
exceed four months
                                                        Increase participation of
2. Fourteen classes with                                beneficiaries as well as
accessories were built in                               bearing more
one year only. This         After completion of         responsibilities in
indicates simple procedure  implementation by the
                            SFD a contract must be      coordination with the

                            signed with the             local authority
3. Implementation of the    concerned party
project minimizes class
crowd and consequently
good education                                                                       Additional cost on the
                                                                                     SFD
4. Some suggestions were
presented during
implementation. These
suggestions were took into
consideration
Ease in communication                                   Force directions
with the SFD at project                                 participating in the project
initiation and during                                   to fulfill their
implementation                                          commitments
1. Taking into              In case implementation
consideration view of a     is not done according to    Force implementing
large number of             the specifications by       directions and
beneficiaries               contractors it is not       contractors to abide by
                            enough deduct the           the technical studies.
                            difference but to cancel    Periodic monitoring
2. Community contribution   the work and restart        during implementation by
                            according to the            the SFD consultants
                            specifications
Formation, training and
capacity building of repair
committees and
community committees
Expanding to remote
areas. Delivering health
services, education, water
and poverty reduction
services through small and
micro-finance to people in
remote mountains and
valleys.




                                                  - 71 -

- Taking into consideration
environmental and health
education. This is reflected
in cleanness of people.
- Recruiting 70% of
unemployed in the project
areas during implementation
period.
- Participation of women in
committees in repair and
cleaning of water ponds
- Use of manual skill
Absolute transparency with
regard to finance
management makes the
SFD a pioneer in ensuring
quality and sustainability
Accuracy in selecting
projects for example
establishing a database for
associations and NGOs at
the ministry. This is taking
place for the first time in
history of the Republic of
Yemen.
Successes are many for
instance training, qualifying,
conducting surveys on the
community and institutions
of the civil community




                                  - 72 -

                                   Evaluation of the Workshop



Particulars                                         Excellent   Good    Weak
Subjects discussed in the workshop                    27         6

Degree of participation in the workshop               19         7       1

Outcomes of the workshop                              16         9

Performance of moderators of the workshop             13         9       1




                                              - 73 -

Additional Annex 10. Trust Fund Assessment

The project benefited greatly from trust funds. They were instrumental in a number of areas during the
establishment of the SFD, as well as throughout operation. The following is a summary of these TFs and
the activities that were carried out under them.

Dutch TF21807
Effective: March 31, 1997
Closing Date: December 31, 2001
Original Amount: EUR 367,630.26
Disbursed: $350,109

This TF was instrumental in starting the first two pilot Micro Finance and income-generating programs in
Hodayda and Dhamar respectively. The TF financed two resident MF consultants to the SFD; an
international Dutch consultant, who worked with the SFD for about 18 months and a regional Egyptian
consultant who worked with the SFD for over two years and continued support afterward by short-term
missions. The two consultants supported the SMEDU in various ways. They supported the drafting of the
MF operational manual of the SFD, the identification of intermediaries of the two programs in Hodayda
and Dhamar, and the design of the two programs. The consultants also provided training activities at two
levels, the SMEDU and selected intermediaries. At the former, trainings were conducted in program
identification, financial calculations for break even points, reporting requirements, etc. At the latter,
different trainings were provided to loan officers and MF program accountants in areas like group
formation, sub-project identification, appraisals of clients, and collection methodologies.

Japanese PHRD (26373)
Effective: December 12, 2002
Closing Date: June 30, 2003
Original Amount: $209,400
Disbursed: $199,253.94 (95.2%)
Undisbursed: $10,146.06

This PHRD complemented the activities that were initiated under the above TF (TF21807). It supported
SMED to learn more about the techniques of evaluation and project design. A consultant from NABARD
(India) assisted the unit in this regard. Under the TF, an MIS for the unit was developed as well as a
website. The unit recruited ASA (a Bangladeshi NGO that has been implementing a MF program for
several years) to provide technical support to a new MF initiative. ASA helped SFD to establish a program
that today has five branches in Ibb, Taiz, Dhamar, Yarim, and Al-Qaeda. The total number of members is
over 3,600 and the number of borrowers is 1,035. A consultant also was recruited to help the unit identify
problems with existing programs and, subsequently helped in training some of the programs' staffs.

The TF also helped the SMEDU organize a MF workshop to help different stakeholders in Yemen to know
more about MF best practices and to learn from similar experiences elsewhere. Finally, under the TF, a
consultant was recruited who helped evaluate the Hodayda Micro Credit Program and develop a business
plan for it.

Dutch TF (20451) - Bank executed.
Effective: September 8, 1998
Closing Date: December 31, 2002



                                                     - 74 -

Original Amount: EUR 1,361,340.65
Disbursed: US$773,398.13

This TF was initially used to hire consultants to provide TA to help select and appraise commercial banks
that would work with the SFD to provide credit to small enterprises. IPC of Germany was hired and
worked with the SFD on initiating dialogues with a number of commercial banks in Yemen and, eventually,
two banks were selected. After a preliminary design of the program was developed, the two banks were
reluctant to continue on the program for several reasons, including doubts about the demand for small
enterprise finance in Yemen.

The TF was then used to conduct a baseline survey for small and micro enterprises in Yemen. The Bank
helped the SFD recruit a reputable international consulting firm (the Netherlands Economic Institute) that
designed and implemented the survey. The survey provides a wealth of information that is now being used
not only by the SFD but by several government and donor agencies. Based on the results survey, the SFD
decided to drop the small enterprise development sub-component, to focus on the MF, and to try to capture
the lower end of small enterprises under the MF programs.

Dutch TF (20452)
Effective: September 8, 1998
Closing Date: December 31, 2002
Original Amount: $5,950,000
Disbursed: $5,777,477.60 (95.9%)

This TF, which was executed by the SFD, financed SFD operational activities. It mainly financed
subprojects in the education of girls in rural areas through the provision of infrastructure and school
equipment.

The annual audits for the SFD included auditing all the TF attached to the project.




                                                   - 75 -

Additional Annex 11. Microcredit Program

In the early years of operation, the SFD focused on the development of two microfinance intermediaries: a
savings and credit program in Aden and a credit-only program in Hodeidah. The Aden program was
doomed to fail from the start due to basic design flaws and complicated procedures, partially because of
non-effective foreign technical assistance. The Hodeidah program, a credit-only program, was potentially
sustainable, and the likelihood of this program becoming financially sustainable was high. The program
was among the Dutch and EU-funded pilot programs set up before the start of the SFD. In 1997, staff was
trained, systems were set up, and the program started making its first loans in early-1998. It grew rapidly
in its first two years; it had almost 2,000 active clients by the end of 1999 and had made over 4,000 loans
by the end of 2000. Due to its rapid growth, which was not sufficiently accompanied by appropriate
development of back-office systems, MIS, and internal audit, the program was affected by serious fraud in
2001. Since then, a massive clean-up operation took place, and many procedures were changed. The
program withdrew from the fraud-affected districts and opened a branch in another district. It is now well
positioned for future growth. It has been selected by UNCDF "Micro Start" as a "break-through"
organization with good prospects of becoming financially sustainable within the next three years. The
inclusion of the Hodeidah program in the Micro Start program makes it also eligible for intensive technical
assistance from regional practitioners.

The Hodeidah fraud, which affected over 50 percent of the loan portfolio, and the poor experience with
IGPs, acted as a "wake-up call" for the SFD. The key lesson learned was that the team had to invest much
more time and effort in the training of implementing partners' staff, system, procedure and MIS
development before starting to make loans. As a result, in 2001 and 2002, the total number of active clients
of all programs together did not grow (and in effect declined). During this period however, the framework
was laid for the development of more sustainable microfinance programs. The Sana'a microfinance
program, which started in 2002, is a good example of the implementation of these key lessons learned.
Another key lesson learned in this period was that in order to increase the number of female clients, savings
services were essential: many women only want to save.




                                                      - 76 -

- 77 -

