Page  1
August 11, 1998
H.E. Mr. Ahmed Sofan
Minister of Planning and Development
P. O. Box 175
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Re:
Credit No. 2953 YEM
(Social Fund for Development Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Your Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Social Fund for Development 
Project) between the Republic of Yemen (the Borrower) and the International 
Development Association (the Association) dated September 12, 1997.  We also 
refer to the grant that the Borrower has obtained from the Minister for 
Development Cooperation of the Netherlands to jointly cofinance the Project, and 
the Development Grant Agreement to be concluded between the Borrower and the 
Association pertaining to said cofinancing.  We further refer to the agreement 
of the Borrower to the proposed cofinancing.  Pursuant to this, we propose to 
amend the Development Credit Agreement to reflect the changes necessitated by 
said joint cofinancing.
Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
In the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, a new fourth and 
fifth Recital, lettered (D) and (E), respectively, are added to read as follows:
“(D) the Borrower has also requested the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister) to provide additional funds 
towards the financing of the Project and the Minister has agreed to provide 
such assistance on a grant basis in an aggregate amount equivalent to two 
million Dutch guilders (NLG 2,000,000) within the framework of the General 
Arrangement between the Minister and the Association dated May 24, 1995, 
providing for the joint cofinancing of certain projects financed by the 
Association;
(E) pursuant to the Arrangement between the Minister and the Association 
dated May 24, 1995, the Association shall administer the grant referred to 
under paragraph (D) above; and”.
2.
Section 1.02 is modified as follows:
(i)
The definition of Special Account set forth in subparagraph 
(e) of Section 
1.02 is changed to read as follows:
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement;
(ii)
In paragraph (g), the word “and” at the end is deleted;
(iii)
In paragraph (h), the full stop at the end of the paragraph 
is replaced by a 
comma;
(iv)
Two new paragraphs lettered (i) and (j), respectively, are 
added to read as 
follows:
“(i)
“Grant” means the grant provided by the Minister to 
jointly cofinance 
part of the cost of the Project; and
Page  2
(j)
“Dutch guilders” and the sign “NLG” mean the currency 
of the Kingdom of 
the Netherlands.”
3.
Subparagraph (b) of Section 2.02 is changed to read as follows:
“The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Credit and the Grant open and 
maintain in US Dollars separate special deposit accounts in its Central 
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
Schedule 1 is modified as follows:
(i)
The title “Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit” is 
modified to read 
"Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and 
of the Grant”;
(ii)
Paragraph 1 is modified to read as follows:
“1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Credit and the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:”; and
(iii)
The table in paragraph 1 is modified as set forth in the 
Attachment to this 
Letter.
5.
Schedule 5 is amended to read as follows:
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for the Credit and an amount 
equivalent to $150,000 in respect of the Special Account for the Grant to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and Grant Account and deposited into the 
respective Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for 
Page  3
deposits into the respective Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have 
been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association  from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account or Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account or Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or the Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit and Grant Accounts of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and Grant allocated to the single Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
Page  4
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit and Grant Accounts for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.”
All the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement, as amended 
hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.  Please confirm your agreement 
with the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the enclosed copy of this 
Letter and returning it to us.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Inder K. Sud                                      
Country Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Ahmed Sofan                 
       Authorized Representative
Date: September 8, 1998          
