                                                                                                             91965
Yemen: Reaching Even the Most Distant Students                                                               November 3, 2003
                         On the streets of Sana’a, Yemen, young Ahmad used to spend his days begging. Since last year, however, when
                         he moved to the Safe Childhood Center— a home for street children under 14—he has had a safe home. Ahmad
                         is now attending elementary school, and school officials say he has grown cheerful and more social.

                      The Safe Childhood Center is just one of a host of new organizations benefiting from the Social Fund for
                      Development (SFD), a Yemeni development agency established in 1997 with support from the World Bank,
                      bilateral donors and the government of Yemen. In one of the poorest countries in the world, the SFD aims to
                      improve access to basic services such as education and healthcare, and support income generation through
micro.nance and access to savings services.

With more than 50 percent of its budget dedicated to education, the SFD is making strides in delivering basic education to even the most
remote corners of the country. Primary school enrollment has increased from 61 to 67 percent, and the government has set a goal of
universal enrollment by 2015, with a particular focus on the number of girls in school, whose enrollment numbers are far behind those of
boys. Initial progress has required an expansion of educational facilities. To meet this demand the SFD built and refurbished 8,790
classrooms.

Promoting access to safe water and health services is also a project priority, accounting for 24 percent of SFD funding: 518 water projects
are providing potable water to 1.4 million Yemenis for the first time. New health care projects—focused on involving local communities in
managing and maintaining health facilities, and on supporting training for health workers—have served hundreds of thousands of
Yemenis.

In addition to jobs created through the expansion of social services, the SFD is creating opportunities through microfinance projects, which
in the past five years have extended loans to more than 17,000 borrowers. “The microfinance component is one way the project is working
to close the gender gap,” says Yasser El-Gammal, the World Bank’s task team leader for the fund. “Women throughout the country are
capitalizing on their skills and becoming entrepreneurs with new access to savings and loan services.” Success of the $90 million project
led to a second phase, which increased commitments to $175 million for 2001-2003. With other donors, the World Bank is currently
preparing a third phase, estimated at $400 million for 2004-2009.

 

Updated: November 2003
