                                   Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR00001547




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (TF-93613)

                                      ON A

          DUTCH EDUCATION SUPPORT PROGRAM GRANT (P115725)


                     IN THE AMOUNT OF USD8.5 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                      FOR A

       BOS-KITA CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND CAMPAIGN PROJECT




                                 December 6, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia & Pacific Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective July 15, 2010)
                       Currency Unit =
                   IDR 1.00 = US$ 0.0001105
                     US$ 1.00 = IDR 9,048

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 ­ December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA         Analytic and Advisory Activities
ADB         Asian Development Bank
AIBEP       Australia Indonesia Basic Education Program
APL         Adaptable Program Loan
AusAID      Australian Agency for International Development
BALITBANG   Badan Penelitian dan Pengembangan (National Centre for Research and
            Development, MoNE)
BAN         Badan Akreditasi Nasional
BAPPENAS    Badan Perencanaan dan Pembangunan Nasional (National
            Development Planning Agency)
BAWASDA     Badan Pengawasan Daerah (Regional Supervision Agency)
BEC-TF      Basic Education Capacity - Trust Fund
BOS         Bantuan Operasional Sekolah (School Operational Assistance)
BOS-KITA    Bantuan Operasional Sekolah- Knowledge Improvement for
            Transparency and Accountability
BPK         Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan (State Audit Agency)
BPKP        Badan Pengawasan Keuangan dan Pembangunan (Financial and
            Development Supervisory Board)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDD         Community Driven Development
CLCC        Creating Learning Communities for Children
CPIU        Central Project Implementation Unit
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
CTT         Central Training Team
DBE         Decentralized Basic Education
DBEP        Decentralized Basic Education Program
DEO         District Education Office
DESP        Dutch Education Support Program
DGSPE       Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education (MoNE)
DIPA        Daftar Isian Pelaksaan Anggaran (Government Annual Budget)
DTT         District Training Team
DVD         Digital Versatile Disc
ESSP        Education Sector Support Programme (AusAID)
FBE         Free Basic Education
FM          Financial Management
GDS         Governance and Decentralization Survey
GFC         Global Financial Crisis
GoI         Government of Indonesia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICW       Indonesian Corruption Watch
ID        Inspectorate Daerah (District Audit Agency (formerly BAWASDA)
IDR       Indonesian Rupiah
IG        Inspectorate General MONE
IMU       Independent Monitoring Unit
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
IT        Information Technology
JICA      Japan International Cooperation Agency
KPK       Komisi Pemberantasan Korupsi (Anti-Corruption Commission)
KKKS      Kelompok Kerja Kepala Sekolah (Principals' Working Group)
LPMP      Lembaga Penjamin Mutu Pendidikan (Education Quality Assurance
          Institution - at Provincial level)
MBE       Managing Basic Education
MIC       Middle Income Countries
MIS       Management Information System
MoF       Ministry of Finance (Departemen Keuangan)
MoHA      Ministry of Home Affairs
MoNE      Ministry of National Education (Departemen Pendidikan Nasional)
Monev     Monitoring and Evaluation
MoRA      Ministry of Religious Affairs
MSS       Minimum Service Standards (Standar Pelayanan Minimal)
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NER       Net Enrolment Rates
NOL       No Objection Letter
PNPM      National Program for Community Empowerment
PDO       Project Development Objectives
POM       Program Operations Manual
PTT       Provincial Training Team
RAPBS     Rencana Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Sekolah (School Revenue,
          Expenditure and Budget Plan)
RIM       Regional Independent Monitoring
REDIP     Regional Education Development and Improvement Program
RIM       Regional Independent Monitoring
RKS       Rencana Kerja Sekolah (School Plan)
RKAS      Rencana Kegiatan dan Anggaran Sekolah (School Activity Plan and
          Budget)
SBM       School Based Management
SC        School Committee
SD        Sekolah Dasar (Primary School)
SIGP      School Improvement Grant Program
SIP       School Improvement Plan
SMIC      Social Marketing and Information Campaign
SMERU     Social Monitoring and Early Response Unit Research Institute
SMP       Sekolah Menengah Pertama (Junior Secondary School)
SISWA     System Improvement through Sector Wide Approaches
SMIC      Social Marketing Information Campaign
SSE       School Self Evaluation
SSNP      School Safety Net Program
SUSENAS   Survei Sosial Ekonomi Nasional ( National Social and Economic
          Survey)
SY       School Year (July- June)
TA       Technical Assistance/Advisor
TKBM     Tempat Kegiatan Belajar Mandiri (Independent Study Center Forum for
         Underprivileged Students)
TOT      Training of the Trainer
TRIMS    Tool for Reporting and Information Management by Schools
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF   The United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    United States for International Development
WB       World Bank
WBOJ     World Bank Office Jakarta




                Vice President: James W. Adams
              Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle
               Sector Manager: Eduardo Velez Bustillo
          Project Team Leader: Mae Chu Chang/Ratna Kesuma
             ICR Team Leader: Yvonne Trethewey
                                   INDONESIA
              BOS-KITA CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND CAMPAIGN PROJECT



                                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..........................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .........................................................3
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome....................................................................12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................12
6. Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................................13
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors..........................14
Annex 1. BOS-KITA PDO Indicators and Intermediate Outcome Indicators .......................15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .....................................................................................17
Annex 3. Outputs by Component ............................................................................................18
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analyses ...........................................................................28
Annex 5. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..................30
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................................31
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..............................................................32
Annex 8. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...................................35
Annex 9. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.................................36
Annex 10. Lessons Learned .....................................................................................................37
MAP IBRD 33420R2 ..............................................................................................................49
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Education TF Support
Country:               Indonesia               Project Name:
                                                                         Program BOS-KITA
Project ID:            P115725                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93613
ICR Date:              12/06/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    TAL                     Grantee:
                                                                         INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 8.5M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 8.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 8.5M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of National Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/27/2008   Effectiveness:                               04/17/2009
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):
Approval:              01/15/2009   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:                   06/30/2010        06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                                     No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                                     No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Education                                      100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                      100               100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:              James W. Adams                     James W. Adams
Country Director:            Stefan G. Koeberle                 Stefan G. Koeberle
Sector Manager:              Eduardo Velez Bustillo             Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Project Team Leader:         Mae Chu Chang                      Mae Chu Chang
ICR Team Leader:             Ratna Kesuma
ICR Primary Author:          Yvonne Trethewey


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Grant are to increase the awareness of the Recipient's School
Operational Assistance program (Bantuan Operasional Sekolah (BOS)) and to increase
the capacity and change the behavior of key stakeholders, particularly at the school and
community levels, in order to support the BOS program in achieving greater
transparency, accountability and efficiency in the use of BOS funds.

It supports the BOS-KITA PDO to improve access to quality education for all children
aged 7 to 15 by strengthening school-based management and community participation,
improving fiduciary arrangements for greater transparency and accountability of the BOS
program, and consequently bringing about better utilization of BOS funds.



                                                  ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO's were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target       Completion or
                                            documents)         Values        Target Years
                Grant Agreement indicators were comprised of the following BOS-KITA
Indicator 1 :
                Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
                                         Primary Net                      Primary Net
                Primary Net Enrolment
                                         Enrolment Rates                  Enrolment Rates
                Rates (NER):
                                         (NER):                           (NER):
Value           Total: 93.8%
                                         Total: 94.0%                     Total: 94.36%
quantitative or Male: 93.9%                                Not revised
                                         Male: 94.1%                      Male:94.48%
Qualitative)    Female: 93.6%
                                         Female: 93.8%                    Female: 94.23
                Poorest quintile:
                                         Poorest quintile:                Poorest
                91.9%
                                         91.9%                            quintile:93.81%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Total Junior Secondary
                                                                          Junior Secondary
                                         Junior Secondary
                Junior Secondary NER:                                     NER:
                                         NER:
                Total: 66.6%                                              Total: 67.4%
Value                                    Total: 67.7%
                Male: 66.0%                                               Male: 66.75%
quantitative or                          Male: 67.1%       Not revised
                Female: 67.3%                                             Female: 68.09%
Qualitative)                             Female: 68.3%
                Poorest quintile:                                         Poorest quintile:
                                         Poorest quintile:
                52.4%                                                     58.55%
                                         53.2%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     % net drop-out rates
Value             Primary: 2.37%         Primary: 2.32%                   Primary: 1.79%
quantitative or   Jr. Secondary:         Jr. Secondary:    Not revised    Jr. Secondary:
Qualitative)      2.88%                  2.62%                            3.96%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   % transition rates
                Total Primary:           Total Primary:                   Total Primary:
Value
                82%                      82.5%                            79.4 %
quantitative or
                Total Jr. Secondary:     Total Jr.                        Total Jr. Secondary:
Qualitative)
                89.2%                    Secondary:                       95.42%


                                             iii
                                            89.5%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Average monthly household expenditure per child on education by poorest
Indicator 5 :
                quintile
                                         Primary:                         Primary:
Value           Primary:
                                         IDR5,558                         IDR31,270
quantitative or IDR18,276
                                         Jr. Secondary:                   Jr. Secondary:
Qualitative)    Jr. Secondary: IDR41,601
                                         IDR16,115                        IDR58,542
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                  Improved Management of BOS Funds:
Indicator 1 :
                  - % of school committees that approve annual budget plans.
Value
(quantitative     92%                       92%                Not revised     94.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     - % of school committees that receive expenditure reports.
Value
(quantitative     91%                       95%                Not revised     94.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     - % of schools that disclose BOS expenditure by category on the notice board.
Value
(quantitative     20%                       Increase           Not revised     20%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                  Increased Public Information and Dissemination regarding BOS:
(incl. %
                  - Number/type of socialization materials distributed.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Increased Public Information and Dissemination regarding BOS:


                                                  iv
                - Number/type of socialization materials distributed.
                Local paper announcement: % parents knowledgeable on BOS, its uses and
                school budgets.
Value                                                                    49 Local paper
(quantitative               ?                    n/a         Not revised announcements
or Qualitative)                                                          2.4%
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                       IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                             v
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Indonesia, with its population of over 220 million and a lower MIC economy has restored its
macroeconomic and financial stability with prudent economic policies and low budget
deficits. Economic growth was expected to reach 6% in 2008 -- sufficient to reduce poverty
to 16.6% and unemployment to 9.1% (before the GFC). Indonesia is the fourth largest
education system in the world with over 46 million students; 2.9 million teachers; and
227,000 schools managed by two major ministries -- 82% of schools are under MoNE and
18% under MoRA. 34% of households in the poorest quintile have children enrolled in SD;
44% of households with SMP-aged children reported that school fees significantly limit
access to education. The most important challenges are:
- Increasing access to junior secondary education for low income families. Only 55% of
    access SMP education despite almost universal primary enrolment and increased SMP
    enrolment since BOS was introduced.
- A FBE policy which does not fully fund the operational costs borne by schools.
    Additional school operational charges represent a significant obstacle for the poor and
    limit the achievement of higher rates of secondary enrolment.
- Low student learning achievement rates ­ Indonesia continues to rank low in
    international standardized test of student performance. In 2003 it ranked 34 out of 45
    countries in the Trends in International Mathematics Science Study TIMSS1. In the 2006
    Program for International Student Assessment - PISA2 which works out how well 15 year
    old students are prepared for life, Indonesia ranked 50 out of 57 countries in Science,
    Reading and Mathematics.

Education sector reform has sought to address structural problems in the legal and legislative
framework governing education. Elements of SBM were introduced over the past decade and
in 2005 Bantuan Operasional Sekolah (BOS) was introduced by GoI -- institutionalizing
SBM and parental involvement with Regulation No. 19/2007. The general objective of BOS3
is "to reduce the public's financial burden on education in the framework of quality 9-year
compulsory education." BOS disburses block grants to all schools on a per-student formula
aimed at providing incentives to headmasters and teachers to focus on maintaining and
increasing student enrolment.

The government, Balitbang, SMERU and the World Bank4 have regularly assessed the BOS
program since its inception. In terms of BOS implementation, these studies found that there
was a need to: (i) improve the disbursement of funds to schools; (ii) improve financial
management and reporting of the use of funds; (iii) increase the public's knowledge of how
BOS funds could be used and; (iv) strengthen the oversight role of the school committee. The
BOS-KITA project was designed by the GoI and the World Bank to address some of the
challenges associated with BOS implementation.



1
  International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement, 2005.
2
  ACER, 2006.
3
  MoNE. 2009a:2.
4
  World Bank. 2010a:2.


                                                    1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

To increase the awareness of the recipients' School Operational Assistance program
(Bantuan Operasional Sekolah (BOS)) in Indonesia and to increase the capacity and change
the behavior of key stakeholders, particularly at the school and community levels, in order to
support the BOS program in achieving greater transparency, accountability and efficiency in
the use of BOS funds.

 1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

PDOs were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries of the Grant were:
- MoNE BOS Management Teams: Central, Provincial and District Levels;
- MoNE School Management Teams: Principal/Head Teacher; School Treasurer; a parent
   nominated by the School Committee;
- Parents and community groups.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of the following parts:
       Part 1: Capacity Building on School Based Management (SBM):
           o Providing capacity building for the development of integrated and
               participatory school planning; planning-based budgeting; cash, asset and
               resource management systems; procurement procedures and controls; public
               reporting; and ethics and code of conduct through support for materials
               development, dissemination and workshops at provincial and district level;
               and
           o Management and delivery of orientation workshops at community and school
               level for approximately 190,000 primary and secondary schools on the use of
               BOS funds; and
       Part 2: Support to the BOS Campaign:
           o Providing a national information media campaign focused on public service
               announcements in parallel with the BOS social information campaign
               (SMIC).

1.6 Revised Components

Components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

No significant changes were made.




                                              2
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project identification and design components were based on lessons learned from previous
BOS5 and SBM training and reflected the necessary capacity development and awareness
raising activities required to provide support to the overall BOS-KITA program. MoNE
agreed to carry out large-scale dissemination of the revisions to BOS in 2009 and conduct
additional training programs for BOS Management Teams in Schools, Districts and
Provinces on financial management, procurement and reporting. Local government auditors
(BAWASDA) participated in IG-MoNE6 2009 training aimed at improving internal audits.
The fiduciary training for school committees, schools, district and provincial teams was
conducted from April-June 2009, in anticipation of the revised BOS manual's
implementation in July 2009. This timing was in line with the proposed Bank disbursement
for FY 2009. The BEC TF supported the MoNE BOS Core Team during the design and
preparation of training materials.

2.2 Critical Risks and Possible Controversies

    Risk                    Level       Mitigation               Action taken

    Component 1:            High         Streamlined             MoNE Core BOS team:
    Capacity Building                    processes were           Included BOS training
    on SBM                               used as far as             implementation, monitoring
    Procurement                          possible.                  and reporting activities during
    processes would                      TORs were                  regular quarterly provincial
    take longer than                     prepared in                BOS management meetings.
    predicted, and                       advance of               Employed an additional BOS
    activities start late                funding.                   Educational Management
    as a result.                                                    Consultant for each province.
                                                                  Requested training design and
                                                                    SBM and BOS module
                                                                    development support from the
                                                                    Bank-managed TF.
                                                                 Task Team, World Bank:
                                                                  Contracted an international
                                                                    (one month) and two national
                                                                    STC's (two months) as
                                                                    training and module
                                                                    development experts to
                                                                    support the Core Team to
                                                                    develop materials.


5
  When introducing BOS in 2005, the Government conducted fiduciary training for school committees,
education officials and auditors, as well as district and provincial teams. These training sessions were
repeated in conjunction with the updates to the BOS operations manual.
6
  The program was offered five times by IG-MoNE in 2009. It ended in April 2009.


                                                   3
 Risk                   Level     Mitigation             Action taken

 There would be         Medium    Evidence- based        MoNE Core BOS Team:
 resistance to change             approaches were         Integrated relevant evidence-
 at different levels              used as far as           based approaches linked to
 (school, district,               possible to ensure       BOS manual revisions TOTs
 national) which                  that messages were       and School and Community
 could reduce the                 relevant and             Orientation and Awareness
 absorption of the                acceptable.              raising activities, where
 key messages of the                                       possible.
 support program.


 Political and          Low       The Bank               Task Team World Bank:
 financial changes                maintained dialog       Worked in partnership with
 could have impact                with the                 MoNE, DGSPE, ensuring
 on the BOS making                Government to            close consultation with the
 some elements of                 ensure that              Core Team so as to support
 the program less                 responses to             the achievement of Grant
 directly relevant.               external factors did     PDOs.
                                  not affect the BOS
                                  program during the
                                  lifetime of the
                                  project.


2.3 Implementation

Grant implementation activities aimed to increase SBM capacity and result in changed
behavior by increasing awareness about the transparent, accountable and effective use of
BOS funds. They are described below.

Activity 1: Capacity Building on School Based Management (SBM)

(a) Provided support to materials development, dissemination and workshops at provincial
    and district level: materials were based on the implementation of BOS manual policies
    and procedures and integrated relevant materials from capacity development modules
    completed under MoNE's Mainstreaming Good Practices in Basic Education Program
    and BEC. BOS manual dissemination delays meant that some training was conducted
    without manuals. In these situations DTTs reinforced the main revisions (higher unit
    costs, tuition fee exemptions, new eligibility expenditures) as detailed in training
    materials.

(b) Managed, delivered and monitored a cascade of TOT training to Central, Provincial and
    District Training Teams. 298 persons participated in Central and Provincial TOTs; 486
    DTTs (± 2,798 persons) participated in District TOTs.




                                            4
(c) Managed, delivered and monitored orientation and awareness training to 180 ­ 181,000
    School BOS Management Teams (± 534,372 persons) and 1,733 Community Groups
    (± 93,465 persons) 7 . The training for School BOS Management Teams increased
    awareness about revisions to the 2009 BOS manual particularly with regard to the
    development of integrated school plans and budgets; the sharing of school reports at
    school level and with the public; school reporting responsibilities to Districts to facilitate
    the aggregation of school data so as to contribute to the establishment of performance-
    based school resource allocations. Delivery of training to some remote areas was
    delayed and, in some instances, where unit costs were insufficient, only one member of
    the School Management Team participated.8

Activity 2: Support to the BOS Campaign

Provided BOS public service announcements in parallel with the BOS social information
campaign (SMIC). MoNE released the announcement over a ten-day period (29 November until
8 December 2009) which detailed information about the 9-Year compulsory education program
and BOS specifics (definition; objectives; 2009 unit costs; beneficiary schools and the
community complaint handling process). Each province announced the BOS Program in one
local newspaper. Additional announcements were made in: West Java - 5 local newspapers; East
Java - 11 local newspapers; Central Java - 5 local newspapers. 49 advertisements appeared in
local and national press.

(a) Partnership Arrangements
    The BOS-KITA Support Grant was managed by the Government, funded out of the
    Dutch Education Support Program.

(a) Institutional and Implementation Arrangements9
    The support Grant was managed by the BOS CPIU established for the BOS-KITA
    program according to implementation arrangements set out in Section IA of Schedule 2
    of the BOS-KITA Grant Agreement. It was under the responsibility of MoNE's
    Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education (DGSPE).

     The CPIU Core Team:

     - Supported and monitored Central, Provincial, District Training Teams to facilitate
       orientation and awareness raising activities, through the decentralized MoNE system,
       with BOS School Teams and Community Groups.
     - Developed a Project Operations Manual according to BOS-KITA Loan Agreement
       provisions which provided:
        Details of materials and workshop management and delivery, the training
           structure and the BOS campaign.
        Implementation arrangements.
        Procurement procedures.


7
  ± 660,983 participants were trained in total.
8
  In Central Kalimantan, Papua, Maluku, Kepulauan Riau only one member of the School Management
Team was able to participate.
9
  World Bank, 2009a.


                                                5
               Reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures.
               Anticorruption Guidelines and the Transparency and Accountability Plan.
               Details of materials and workshop management and delivery, the training
               structure and the BOS Campaign.
                 Designed and developed the training program and training materials. The
                   Bank-managed TF provided short- term technical assistance (international
                   Capacity Building and Training Adviser: one month; national SBM and
                   Financial Management expert: two months; and a BOS Program expert: two
                   months). The Team consulted with stakeholder10 reviewed existing resources
                   produced by MoNE and other donor projects; and, identified needs at each
                   level of the training cascade. Stakeholders shared lessons learned and
                   materials from other SBM and financial management training initiatives.
                 Three stand-alone modules 11 were produced -- a TOT for Central and
                   Provincial Training Teams; A TOT for District Training Teams and
                   Orientation and Awareness-Raising Workshop materials for School BOS
                   Management Teams and Community Groups were developed to facilitate
                   training.
                   Each module included SBM and financial management materials and relevant
                   good practice examples of BOS fund planning and use. Content included
                   examples of completed BOS reports to support standardization in reporting
                   and, to encourage a consistent approach to the management of funds at all
                   levels.

         BOS Management Team Structure:

         The established decentralized BOS Management Team structure facilitated the national
         roll-out of the cascade of training. The table below provides an overview of roles
         within that structure.

          Management Team                     Role

          Core Team                           To provide design, consultation, implementation,
          BOS team members and                management and monitoring support for BOS-KITA
          consultants                         activities.

          Central (DGSPE)                     To design the program; compile a national aggregate
          12 people (4 Program; 4             of school data; set provincial fund allocations and
          Financial Management; 4             targets; plan and conduct dissemination of the
          Procurement)                        program; train provincial BOS management teams;
                                              develop and distribute the BOS operations manual;
                                              plan and conduct national monitoring and evaluation;
                                              complaint- handling and monitoring complaint
                                              settlement by provincial and district BOS
                                              management teams; consolidate provincial reports



10
     Refer Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.
11
     Refer Annex 2a: Component 1 (a) Overview of Training Materials


                                                     6
        Management Team                         Role

                                                into a comprehensive national report on BOS
                                                activities.
        Provincial                              To establish district and municipality allocations;
        (Provincial Education Offices)          distribute funds to schools; conduct provincial level
        12 per Province(±):4                    program dissemination; train district BOS
        Provincial Representatives; 4           management teams; monitor and manage complaint
        District Representatives; 2             handling.
        Consultants

        District                                To compile and verify enrolment data; disseminate
        (District Education Offices)            and train BOS teams at school level; investigate and
        10 per District (±):2 District          handle complaints; conduct monitoring and
        Education Official; 4                   evaluation at school level.
        Supervisors;2 SD Teachers
        (Principal/Head Teacher,
        Treasurer); 2 SMP Teachers
        (Principal/Head Teacher,
        Treasurer)

        School                                  To work in conjunction with the School Committee
        3 per school: Principal/Head-           (SC) to:
        teacher; Teacher as treasurer;             - plan and ensure the accountable use of
        Community/parent                                funds12
        representative)                            - identify poor students to be exempted or
                                                        receive support from BOS funds
                                                   - notify parents and the community about fund
                                                        use by placing the report on an accessible
                                                        school notice board
                                                   - report to the district team.



2.4 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Grant monitoring, reporting and evaluation mechanisms were determined according to BOS-
KITA Loan Agreement Standard Conditions. In MoNE,13 grant components were monitored
through the BOS Management Team structure at Central and Provincial levels and during
joint supervisory missions with the World Bank team. Recommendations were that future
training should emphasize financial reporting, taxation and the preparation of the RKAS; and,
funding for training in remote locations should be increased. Joint MoNE and Bank
monitoring of a small sample of training locations 14 recommended improving access to


12
   The Chair of the SC is a joint signatory to the budget plan and signs off on the report for the use of funds
to be placed on school notice boards.
13
   MoNE, 2009 b and c.
14
   PTT in Jakarta; DTT in Manado; DTT and Schools: Yogyakarta City, Kulonprogo.


                                                       7
relevant documents (RAPBS, BOS account details, reporting information, BOS manual and
stress requirements with regard to displaying the school plan, fund withdrawal, use of funds,
taxes and complaint handling.

Integrated monitoring, implementation support and supervision occurred as part of overall
BOS-KITA monitoring activities during the First World Bank Review and Implementation
Support Mission15 the Mid-term Review of the DESP; and, a separate Regional Independent
Monitoring (RIM) 16 survey conducted by the Bank-executed portion of the BOS-KITA
support program. Grant specific recommendations included: setting RAPBS and RAKS
priorities that are school-specific; providing detailed information about eligible expenditure;
BOS expenditure public notifications and reporting requirements as disclosure on the use of
BOS funds remained limited; providing practical examples and activities in the training
directly related to school challenges; using trainers with relevant field experience and greater
involvement by the School Committee in the financial management of BOS; improving
socialization for remote schools. Findings are integrated in Sections 3 and 5 and informed the
lessons learned and considerations described in Section 6. Monitoring activities and
recommendations are summarized below.

2.5 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project received an unqualified audit opinion from BPKP17 in the 2009 audit. The World
Bank financial management review conducted in May 201018 rated the project satisfactory.
Review findings indicated that BOS training and socialization went well but the change from
a centralized project to one implemented at provincial and district levels caused several
budget delays.

Recommendations for improvement were:
    Plan and agree budget arrangements prior to implementation to avoid budget delays.
    Provide training in project financial management to facilitate effective financial
     management and the production of audit reports to the required standards.
    Ensure that audit findings about internal controls in the areas of project management
     and payment verifications relating to overpayments, insufficient supporting
     information and unaccounted use of funds are acted upon and provided to the Bank
     before 31 October 2010.
    Ensure that return travel tickets are submitted by participants as support
     documentation for future training activities.

2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The next phase of BOS training will support the transition of BOS-KITA from a project that
strengthens fiduciary requirements to one which, in addition, directly helps schools and




15
   World Bank, 2009d.
16
   World Bank, 2009g.
17
   BPKP, 2010.
18
   World Bank, 2010.e.


                                               8
districts19 make the critical link between assessing school performance, planning, monitoring
and using funds for needed improvements. MoNE has prepared the BOS Training Plan for
the 2010-2011 roll-out to MoNE and MoRA BOS Management Teams at all levels and
School Management Team training to reflect this transition. To address monitoring and
evaluation findings and stakeholder concerns about the role of the School Committee a
member of the SC will participate in the 2011 BOS training20.

To facilitate the training cascade the cadre of BOS trainers from 2009 will be reviewed on the
basis of additional selection criteria (IT capability; previous BOS knowledge; experience in
the field). Additional trainers will be identified from current and past SBM initiatives (MoNE,
MoRA and donor projects).

Districts have been advised to integrate BOS supervision within regular supervision of
schools, and to allocate adequate resources for monitoring BOS. As a separate initiative,
MoNE is exploring ways to strengthen the capacity of School Supervisors to conduct
integrated monitoring at schools to improve capacity in BOS fund use and management.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives were highly relevant to the ongoing capacity development needs of BOS
Management Teams throughout the decentralized MoNE system. They were specifically
designed to support BOS-KITA PDOs and to socialize revisions to the 2009 BOS manual.
The dissemination of information through the socialization and awareness raising activities
was intended to lead to increased capacity, better understanding of BOS and changed
behavior so that BOS fund management was transparent, accountable and effective. The
intended outcome from raising the awareness of parents and the community was intensive
oversight of BOS fund use in schools.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO's were partly achieved21. Awareness was increased at School Management Team
and Community levels as a result of orientation and awareness raising workshops. Increased
capacity in School Management Team fund management did not occur to the level inferred in
the PDOs. However changed behavior was demonstrated by the increase of 2.5% in the
number of school committees that approve annual budget plans; an increase of 3.5% in the
number of school committees that received expenditure reports. However the % of schools


19
   There are indications that the government is inclined towards formal decentralization of the BOS
program e.g. earmarked BOS funds to be sent to district government budgets for onward disbursement to
schools, in order to increase district ownership for managing, monitoring and auditing the use of BOS
funds (World Bank, 2010b:2).
20
   SC members will participate in two days training (Module 1: BOS introduction and revisions; Module 2:
School Self Evaluation and Module 3: School Planning).
21
   Note: other factors outside the DESP funded BOS training are likely to have influenced the achievement
of PDOs, for example Provincial and District level training interventions for Principals/Head Teachers and
Treasurers.


                                                    9
that disclosed BOS expenditure by category on the notice board remained at 20%. Media
releases in national and local press increased awareness about BOS generally but the % of
parents knowledgeable about BOS, its uses and school budgets was estimated at only 2.4% at
completion. Outcomes are discussed in more detail in the following sections.

(a) Component 1: Capacity Building on SBM
    Institutional strengthening of BOS Management Teams at central, provincial and district
    levels occurred during cascades of TOTs to 298 persons in Central and Provincial
    Training Teams and 2,798 persons in District Training Teams. PTTs scheduled school
    and community training in consultation with DTTs. DTTs conducted School Team
    training to between 180,000 ­ 181,000 School Management Teams (SMT) with
    approximately 534,372 persons participating. DTTs also conducted 1-day awareness
    raising meetings in sub-districts 22 with 6197 parent/community groups with a total of
    93,465 participants. It is estimated that approximately 660,983 persons participated in the
    2009 BOS training overall.

       SMT training was at orientation and awareness level. Participants indicated that their
       understanding about BOS was increased but financial management training was at
       overview level only due to the limited time available during a one-day workshop and
       varying trainer capability which impacted on training delivery. In some instance the
       syllabus was not followed; some principals decided that they should attend only part of
       the training and left the treasurers to attend the remainder; content was delivered in a
       `top-down' manner; some trainers emphasized particular school concerns (taxation,
       auditing, and procurement) or the policy or BOS topic with which they had the most
       experience; and/or focused on fiduciary requirements and did not engage participants in
       the group activities designed to facilitate active learning.

(b) Component 2: Support to the BOS Campaign
    MoNE released a BOS announcement for the national and local press which provided
    information about BOS: its definition; objectives; 2009 Unit Costs; 9-year compulsory
    education requirements; beneficiary schools and the community complaint handling
    process. All Provinces made the announcement over a ten-day period between 29th
    November and 8th December 200923 in at least one local newspaper (with the exception of
    Central and West Java where 5 local newspapers carried the announcement and East Java
    where 11 local newspapers carried the announcement). 49 announcements were made in
    total.

3.3 Efficiency




22
     World Bank, 2009d: 12; MONE. 2010b
23
     Refer MoNE, 2010b:30 for listing of 2009 Newspaper Announcements.


                                                  10
3. 4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The Actual Value increase of the BOS-KITA outcome indicators specified in the Grant
Agreement over the short duration of the Grant combined with the achievement of targets for
the development of materials, delivery of training to target audiences and newspaper BOS
announcements nationwide contributed to the Grant's overall performance rating of
satisfactory.

Rating: Satisfactory
Section 3.2. provides additional information about the achievement of objectives under each
component which led to this rating.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
    Not evaluated as part of this grant.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
    Activities supported by this grant were intended to meet institutional needs identified in
    2009 at design stage. They were not perceived to be ongoing. Implementation findings
    highlighted that the program should be extended and expanded to cater for lack of
    capacity in fiduciary management at the school and district level, as well as to respond to
    capacity development needs as a result of high staff turnover at the district level. Findings
    also reinforced that nation-wide improvement in institutional practices and capacity
    development would more likely occur over the medium to long term if:
    - the capacity of schools and districts is increased to make the critical link between
        assessing school performance, planning for needed improvement and using funds
        (including BOS funds from central and local governments);
    - school improvement planning is introduced that incorporates consideration of
        requirements to meet minimum education standards;
    - schools redirect resources (including BOS funds) from largely financing teachers'
        remuneration and honoraria towards student needs and school operational
        requirements;
    - ongoing capacity development and training is provided that is targeted at
        strengthening district management teams to manage, monitor and, provide gap-
        financing ­ particularly given the expected decentralization of BOS funds to Districts
        and the high rotation/turnover of district Education office staff which limits
        sustainability;
    - the role of the School Supervisor is clarified and expanded to include BOS
        monitoring and supervision within regular school supervisory activities;
    - School Committee and community oversight is strengthened.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Findings of beneficiary discussions are integrated into 6: Lessons Learned.




                                               11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low
The design of Grant activities highlighted the responsiveness of the TF as a flexible and
efficient mechanism which facilitated the GoI executed training program for BOS. 24 TF
support for this was considered to be especially timely with the funds available for major
revisions to the 2009 BOS manual and the preparation of training materials just when this
major training effort was being planned and designed. Implementation was monitored by the
Core, Central and Provincial Management Teams to reduce the potential for risks to
development outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The program is a part of DESP support to improve the BOS-KITA program.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
All supervisory activities were conducted in close consultation with the Government team.
These activities included frequent consultation (in scheduled meetings, by telephone and
email). Supervisory activities are discussed in Section 2.4: Monitoring and Evaluation (M &
E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank worked in partnership with MoNE, responding promptly and effectively to Grantee
support requirements. World Bank staff facilitated MoNE to shepherd through fund
disbursement to support the timely delivery of the training program.25

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government processed the BOS training budget allocation within Provincial DIPAs.
Some delays occurred as a result of insufficient planning for budget arrangements.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The MONE team developed the training approach, design, materials and supported
Provincial BOS Management Teams in the implementation of the training. Local
administration requirements delayed training in two provinces.


24
     World Bank. 2010b: 4, 15.
25
     World Bank. 2010b: 4, 15.


                                            12
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government commitment to implement the training and the campaign was especially
successful ­ MoNE needed funds urgently for the programmed training ­ funds were
disbursed immediately.26

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned, issues raised and considerations for the 2010 ­ 2011MoNE and MoRA BOS
training program were identified in review, implementation, supervisory missions, financial
management reviewing and stakeholder consultations.27 These are discussed in more detail in
Section 2.4: Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization and 2.5
Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance.

These lessons learned28 informed the policy dialogue with GoI under BOS-KITA Additional
Financing and, the design of the 2010 and 2011 MoNE and MoRA Training Plan. In
particular they provided input about:
    - Planning and agreeing budget arrangements prior to implementation to avoid budget
        delays and the flow of funds to provincial DIPAs.
    - Providing training in project financial management to facilitate effective financial
        management and the production of audit reports to the necessary required standards.
    - Ensuring that audit findings related to internal controls in the areas of project
        management and payment verifications relating to overpayments, insufficient
        supporting information and unaccounted use of funds are acted upon and reported.
    - Implementation improvements to ensure training delivers a consistent BOS message.
    - Improvements to the BOS manual to make it more accessible and reduce ambiguity.
    - Unit cost allocations which reflect realistic costs, particularly for schools in remote
        locations.
    - Trainer recruitment which targets trainers from other SBM initiatives (MoNE and
        donor).
    - School Supervisor participation in District TOTs, BOS supervision and monitoring.
    - Strategies to make the role of School Committees more explicit and to involve them
        in BOS 2011 training.
    - Training design which:
             o Caters for participant and school diversity by grouping schools into 3 clusters
                based on BAN-SD and SMP classifications and uses appropriate
                methodology for each level.
             o Provides a short course of training in School Self-Evaluation, Reporting,
                Financial Management, RKS, RKAS and BOS updates.
             o Provides supplementary information to parents and other stakeholders to
                support the transparent, accountable and effective use of BOS funds.




26
   World Bank. 2010b: 4.
27
   World Bank. 2009c. World Bank. 2009g. World Bank. 2009h. MoNE. 2010a. MoNE. 2010b.
28
   Refer Annex 9: Lessons Learned.


                                              13
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
Refer Lessons learned.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
A feature of the planning and implementation process was ongoing consultation with key
stakeholders and donors working on SBM activities at District, Sub-District and School
levels. As a result the 2010/11 program is being supported with parallel co-financing from:
ADB for institutional strengthening and capacity development of provincial and district
management teams (US$600,000); AusAID co-financing for MoNE and MoRA School BOS
Management Teams(AU$20,000,000); BEC-TF technical advisory and other support to
develop BOS Training modules and support materials; and, additional AusAID and USAID
technical advisory input into module design for the School Management Team modules.




                                            14
   Annex 1. BOS-KITA PDO Indicators and Intermediate Outcome Indicators
   (a)      PDO Indicators
                                                                                        Actual Value
                                                      Original Target    Formally
                                                                                         Achieved at
                                  Baseline Value       Values (from       Revised
          Indicator                                                                     Completion or
                                (SUSENAS29 2007)         approval         Target
                                                                                        Target Years
                                                       documents)         Values
                                                                                      (SUSENAS 2009)
For Indonesian primary Primary Net                  Primary Net         Not revised
and junior secondary     Enrolment Rates            Enrolment Rates                   Primary Net
schools (disaggregated (NER):                       (NER):                            Enrolment Rates
by gender, region and    Total:    93.8%            Total: 94.0%                      (NER):
income quintile):        Male:     93.9%            Male: 94.1%                       Total: 94.36%
 % net enrolment rates Female: 93.6%                Female: 93.8%                     Male:94.48%
 % dropout rates         Poorest quintile:          Poorest quintile:                 Female: 94.23
 % transition rates                 91.9%                    91.9%                    Poorest
                                                                                      quintile:93.81%
 Average monthly
   household
   expenditure per child
   on education by the
   poorest quintile.

Total Junior Secondary Junior Secondary             Junior Secondary    Not revised Junior Secondary
                       NER:                         NER:                            NER:
                       Total:     66.6%             Total: 67.7%                    Total:     67.4%
                       Male:      66.0%             Male:      67.1%                Male:      66.75%
                       Female: 67.3%                Female: 68.3%                   Female: 68.09%
                       Poorest quintile:            Poorest quintile:               Poorest quintile:
                                  52.4%             53.2%                                      58.55%

% net drop-out rates          Primary:    2.37%Primary:     2.32% Not revised Primary:
                              Jr. Secondary:   Jr. Secondary:                 1.79%
                                         2.88%             2.62%              Jr. Secondary:
                                                                                         3.96%
% transition rates        Total Primary:       Total Primary:                 Total Primary:
                                     82%                  82.5%                         79.4 %
                          Total Jr. Secondary: Total Jr.                      Total Jr.
                                     89.2%     Secondary:                     Secondary:
                                                          89.5%
                                                                              95.42%
Average monthly           Primary:             Primary:                       Primary:
household expenditure IDR18,276                IDR5,558                       IDR31,270
per child on education by Jr. Secondary:       Jr. Secondary:                 Jr. Secondary:
poorest quintile          IDR41,601            IDR16,115                      IDR58,542




   29
        Central Bureau of Statistics, 2007; 2009.



                                                     15
      (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                                        Actual Value
                                                    Original Target Values Formally
                                                                                         Achieved at
           Indicator30             Baseline Value      (from approval       Revised
                                                                                        Completion or
                                                         documents)       Target Values
                                                                                        Target Years


  % of schools receiving             n/a                     68.5         Not revised         69%
    funds on time


  % of schools receiving
  full allocation of funds
  based on student                   n/a                   84.5%          Not revised         93.5%
  numbers

  % of school committees
    that approve annual
                                     92%                   96.2%          Not revised         94.5%
    budget plans.

  % of schools that
    receive annual                   91%                    95%           Not revised         94.5%
    expenditure reports
  % of schools that
    disclose BOS
    expenditure by category          20%                   Increase       Not revised         20%
    on the notice board

     Increased Public                Local paper      BOS Manual and         Wider         Leaflets and
     Information and                announcements     local newspaper     distribution     BOS Manual
      Dissemination                                     distribution                        distributed
     regarding BOS:                                                                       to journalists,
                                                                                            NGOs and
      Number/type of                                                                     Parliamentarians
   socialization materials
         distributed

% of parents knowledgeable
on BOS its uses and school           n/a                     n/a          Not revised         2.4%
budgets




      30
           World Bank, 2009a:5 Section 2.04 (b).



                                                      16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                            Percentage of
             Components               Estimate (USD  Estimate (USD
                                                                             Appraisal
                                         millions)      millions)
1 Capacity Building on SBM
1.a) Support to materials
     development, dissemination,          1.779
     workshops at provincial and
     district level
1.b) Management and delivery of
     orientation workshops at              6,268
     community and school level
2 Support to the BOS Campaign            .453
                  Total Baseline Cost          8.500     8,490.339.48          98.5%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00            0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00            0.00              0.00
                 Total Project Costs          0.00            0.00
Project Preparation Costs                     0.00            0.00               .00
                                              0.00            0.00               .00
Total Financing Required                      0.00            0.00


(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                        Type of      Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Financing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)   millions)
Trust Funds                                            0.00        0.00
                                     WB
Indonesia - Free-standing Trust Fund
                                     administered      8.50          0.00              .00
Program: DESP
                                     TF




                                             17
Annex 3. Outputs by Component

The following table summarizes outputs by components. It is followed by detailed
Component Overviews reproduced from the Grantee ICR.

Project Component           Outputs
1. Capacity Building on SBM
(a) Support to materials    (i) Workshops for strategy and material development,
    development,                 strengthening the Central Training Team:
    dissemination and            - Development of training strategy, training materials
    workshops at provincial         design, development and reproduction:
    and district level.              TOT Modules developed for Provincial, District
                                        awareness raising.
                                     Orientation Modules developed for School and
                                        Community Teams.
                            (ii) Program socialization, printing of training materials,
                                 program supervision:
                                 - Socialization workshops: MoNE, MoRA,
                                    BAPPENAS, MoF, Donors (±70 people trained);
                                 - Training workshops: Central Training Team;
                                 - Monitoring workshop: Provincial Training Team
                                    and Consultants Training (±228 persons trained),
                                    486 District Training Team Training (± 2798
                                     persons trained).

(b) Management and delivery       (i)  Orientation for ±534,372 persons representing ±
    of orientation workshops           180,000 ­ 181,000 School Teams in clusters, at District
    at community and school            level ­ by DTT (9119 Groups);
    level.                        (ii) Orientation for ± 93,465 persons comprising ± 6,197
                                       Parent/Community groups at Sub-District level ­ by
                                       DTT (1733 Groups).

2. Support to the BOS campaign
Implementation of nationwide (i)        Support to the SMIC through MoNE released BOS
campaign                                announcement to provinces for local newspaper
                                        dissemination over the period 29 November until 8
                                        December 200931. 49 BOS advertisements appeared:
                                        one/province with the exceptions of West Java ­ 5
                                        advertisements; East Java ­ 11 advertisements.




31
  Refer MoNE, 2010b: Annex 6: Media Plan and Annex 7: BOS Beneficiary Schools 2009 Newspaper
Announcements (Socialization Campaign).



                                              18
Annex 3a. Component 1(a): Overview of Training Materials



                     TOT PROVINCIAL TRAINING TEAM (PTT)


A. OBJECTIVES

After completion of this training session, participants are expected to be able to:
    1. Understand the legal grounds for the BOS program;
    2. Identify the background of BOS program development;
    3. Formulate BOS objectives;
    4. Explain program targets and amount of assistance;
    5. Describe the time for fund distribution;
    6. Describe operational costs: non-personnel;
    7. Define the BOS Program;
    8. Identify BOS Recipient Schools;
    9. Explain the BOS Program and Good Quality 9-Year Compulsory Education
         Program;
    10. Relate the BOS Program to the School Based Management (MBS);
    11. Describe the Responsibilities of Students, Parents and/or Guardians;
    12. Understand the concept of School Based Management (MBS).

B. MATERIAL AND TOOLS

    1.   2009 School Operational Assistance (BOS) Manual;
    2.   Group Work Sheet (LKK);
    3.   Training Media: Computer and LCD/OHP, Whiteboard;
    4.   Stationery: Scratch paper, Pencil and Ballpoint;
    5.   Individual Work Sheet (school data form).

C. ACTIVITY STEPS

 The training scenario in this session is as follows:

   5 minutes            70 minutes            30 minutes     10 minutes      5 minutes


  Introduction                                               Plenary Group
                       Reading and            Group Work
                       Description
                                                             Results         Closing




                                               19
D. TRAINING SCHEDULE

              Topics/Agenda                   Duration              Description
  Opening and Orientation                    60 Minutes   By Central Officer

  Explanation of Training Mechanism          60 Minutes   By Central Training Team

  Session 1: Definition, Objectives and        120        BOS Manual: Chapters I and II
  Targets of BOS                              Minutes     + Sisdiknas Law + Government
                                                          Regulation 48 year 2008

  Session 2: Organization, Mechanism           120        BOS Manual: Chapter III,
  and Procedure for BOS Fund                  Minutes     Chapter IV and Chapter V
  Management                                              (outside the Chapter on Use of
                                                          BOS Funds)

  Session 3: BOS fund use and                  120        Chapter IV (Use of BOS
  Preparation of School Plans                 Minutes     Funds) + Chapter VI +
                                                          materials on School Based
                                                          Management (MBS)

  Session 4: Transparency and                75 Minutes   Chapter IV + Improved
  Community Participation                                 perspective

  Session 5: Tax and Financial Reporting        120       Part 2 of BOS Manual
                                              Minutes
  Session 6: Monitoring, Reporting and       90 Minutes   Chapter VII and Chapter VIII
  Control

  Session 7: Simulations and Review of         120        Look at and Learn Modules for
  Training Materials for Districts/Cities,    Minutes     districts/cities, schools and
  Schools and Communities                                 communities

  Session 8: Development of Plans and          120        Discussion per province
  Strategies for District-Level Training      Minutes

  Session 9: Plan for providing and            120        Plenary
  funding school and community training       Minutes

  Session 10: Plenary: Training plan           120        Plenary Discussion
  discussion                                  Minutes

 Total                                        20 Hours,
                                             45 Minutes


                                             20
                    TOT DISTRICT/CITY TRAINING TEAM (DTT)



A. OBJECTIVES

After completion of this training session, participants are expected to be able to:

     1.   Identify the background of BOS program development;
     2.   Formulate BOS objectives;
     3.   Explain program targets and amount of assistance;
     4.   Describe the time for fund distribution;
     5.   Describe operational costs: non-personnel;
     6.   Define the BOS Program;
     7.   Identify BOS Recipient Schools;
     8.   Explain the BOS Program and Good Quality 9-Year Compulsory Education Program;
     9.   Relate the BOS Program to the School Based Management (MBS);
    10.   Describe the Responsibilities of Students, Parents and/or Guardians;
    11.   Understand the concept of School Based Management (MBS).


B. MATERIAL AND TOOLS

     1.   2009 School Operational Assistance (BOS) Manual;
     2.   Group Work Sheet (LKK);
     3.   Training Media: Computer and LCD/OHP, Whiteboard;
     4.   Stationery: Scratch paper, Pencil and Ballpoint;
     5.   Individual Work Sheet (school data form).


C. ACTIVITY STEPS

The training scenario in this session is as follows:

     5 minutes          40 minutes            30 minutes            10 minutes        5 minutes


`   Introduction
                                              Group Work           Plenary Group
                        Description                                Results            Closing




                                               21
D. TRAINING SCHEDULE


             Topics/Agenda                 Duration             Description

  Opening and Orientation                 60 Minutes    By Provincial Officer

  Explanation of Training Mechanism       30 Minutes    By Provincial Training Team

  Session 1: Definition, Objectives and   90 Minutes    BOS Manual: Chapters I and II
  Targets of BOS

  Session 2: Organization, Mechanism      120 Minutes   BOS Manual: Chapter III,
  and Procedure for BOS Fund                            Chapter IV and Chapter V
  Management                                            (outside the Chapter on Use of
                                                        BOS Funds)

  Session 3: BOS fund use and             120 Minutes   Chapter IV (Use of BOS
  Preparation of School Plans                           Funds) + Chapter VI +
                                                        materials on School Based
                                                        Management (MBS)

  Session 4: Transparency and             75 Minutes    Chapter IV + Improved
  Community Participation                               perspective

  Session 5: Tax and Financial Reporting 120 Minutes    Part 2 of BOS Manual

  Session 6: Monitoring, Reporting and    60 Minutes    Chapter VII and Chapter VIII
  Control

  Session 7: Simulations and Review of    90 Minutes    Look at and Learn Modules for
  Training Materials for Schools and                    schools and communities
  Communities

  Session 8: Development of Plans and     120 Minutes   Discussion per district
  Strategies for School and Community-
  Level Training each District

  Session 9: Plenary: Training plan       75 Minutes    Plenary Discussion
  discussion

 Total                                     16 Hours




                                          22
                       TOT School TEAM ORIENTATION


A. OBJECTIVES

After completion of this training session, participants are expected to be able to:

    1.  Identify the background of BOS program development;
    2.  Formulate BOS objectives;
    3.  Explain program targets and amount of assistance;
    4.  Describe the time for fund distribution;
    5.  Describe operational costs: non-personnel;
    6.  Define the BOS Program;
    7.  Identify BOS Recipient Schools;
    8.  Give a presentation on the BOS Program and Good Quality 9-Year Compulsory
        Education Program;
    9. Relate the BOS Program to the School Based Management (MBS);
    10. Describe the Responsibilities of Students, Parents and/or Guardians.


B. TRAINING SCHEDULE
 
  Time          Duration                    Description
  07:30 ­ 08:00 30 minutes                  Opening
  08:00 ­ 09:45 75 minutes                  Session 1: BOS Program Definition,
                                            Objectives and Targets
 09:45 ­ 10:45       60 minutes             Session 2: Organization, Mechanism and
                                            Procedure for fund management
 10:45 ­ 11:00       15 minutes             Break
 11:00 ­ 13:00       120 minutes            Session 3: BOS Fund Use Plan
 13:00 ­ 14:00       60 minutes             Ishoma
 14:00 ­ 14:45       45 minutes             Session 4: Transparency and Community
                                            Role
 14:45 ­ 16:35       110 minutes            Session 5: Tax, Reporting and Financial
                                            Accountability
 16.35 - 16.45       10 minutes             Session 6: Individual school data
                                            collection by tutors
  16.45 ­ 17:00 15 minutes                  Closing
 
 
C. MATERIAL AND TOOLS

    1.   2009 School Operational Assistance (BOS) Manual;
    2.   Group Work Sheet (LKK);
    3.   Training Media: Computer and LCD/OHP, Whiteboard;
    4.   Stationery: Scratch paper, Pencil and Ballpoint;
    5.   Individual Work Sheet (school data form).



                                               23
D. ACTIVITY STEPS
The training scenario in this session is as follows:

  5 minutes           35 minutes           20 minutes   10 minutes      5 minutes


                                           Group Work   Plenary Group
 Introduction        Description                        Results         Closing




                                            24
Annex 3b. Component 1(b) Training Delivery

Workshops were conducted in cascades at Central, Provincial and District levels.

The following table provides an overview of the type of training conducted, participant
details, length of training and training content.

 Participants                             Location             Content
 Total                                    and Length
 Central BOS                12            Jakarta              TOT for CTT:
 Management Team                          23- 26 March          BOS update: 2009
 members from the                         2009, Hotel Sahid.     revisions.
 Directorate of Primary                                         Central mechanisms.
 Education and                            2 days                Provincial training.
 Directorate of Junior                                          Monitoring and
 Secondary Education.                                            evaluation (all levels).
                                                                Analysis and input
                                                                 requirements.
 Central level              70            February 2009,        Overview of Grant
 socialization:             (±)           Jakarta                activities.
 BAPPENAS, MoF,                                                 2009 BOS manual
 MoNE, MoRA                                                      launch and updates.
                                                                Delivery mechanisms
                                                                 for national training
                                                                 activities.
                                                                Strategies for
                                                                 sustainability and BOS
                                                                 management team
                                                                 strengthening.
 33 PTTs (6-18              216           Jakarta 15-18        TOT for PTT, conducted by
 people/Province)           (±)           April 2009, Hotel    CTT:
 Provincial and District                  Jayakarta.            BOS update:
 Representatives).                        Makassar 19-22         description; objectives;
                                          April 2009, Hotel      goals; 2009 revisions.
 Jakarta: 13 Provinces                    Celebes.              Provincial DIPA
 (DKI, West Java,                         Bali 23-26 April       allocation for BOS.
 Banten, Sumatera)                        2009, Hotel           District training
 Makassar: 11 Provinces                   Ramada.                planning,
 (Sulawesi, Maluku,                                              implementation and
 Maluku Utara, Papua                                             administration.
 and Papua Barat)                         3 days                District Training ­ use
 Bali: 9 Provinces                        (+ travel)             of BOS funds; school
 (Kalimantan, Bali, East                                         plan development;
 Java, Central Java, NT                                          transparency and
 B and NTT)                                                      accountability; taxation
                                                                 and financial reporting.
                                                                Monitoring, reporting



                                             25
 Participants                             Location              Content
 Total                                    and Length
                                                                   and evaluation for
                                                                   Districts, Schools, Sub-
                                                                   Districts.
 486 DTTs (4 -24             2,798        Provincial capitals   TOT for DTT, conducted by
 people/District) District   (±)          2 days                PTT:
 Education Officials:                     (+ travel)              BOS update:
 Supervisors, Primary                                              description; objectives;
 Teachers (Head and                                                goals; 2009 revisions.
 Treasurer); Junior                                               School training
 Secondary Teachers                                                planning,
 (Head and Treasurer).                                             administration,
                                                                   implementation.
                                                                  School training.
                                                                  Community awareness
                                                                   raising planning,
                                                                   administration,
                                                                   implementation.
                                                                  Monitoring and
                                                                   evaluation.
 180,000 ­ 181,000           534,372      Districts             Orientation for School
 School BOS                  (±)          1 day                 Teams, conducted by DTT:
 Management Teams (3                      (+ travel)              BOS update: 2009
 people/School): Head                                              revisions.
 Teacher, Treasurer,                                              Accountability and
 nominated Parent                                                  reporting requirements.
 Representative
 (nominated by School
 Committee but not a
 member).

 Number of groups:
 9,118

 6,197 Sub-Districts (15     93,465       Sub-Districts         Community awareness
 people/sub-district):       (±)          1 day                 raising meeting, conducted
 Community                                                      by DTT.
 members/parents.

 Number of groups:
 1,733

 TOTAL                       660,983 (±) participants

Annexes 4 ­ 6 of the Grantee ICR provide detailed scheduling and statistical information.




                                             26
Annex 3c.      Component 2: Support to the BOS Socialization Campaign

Component 2 of the project was aimed at providing support to the BOS Campaign by increasing
parental and community understanding about BOS through increased information dissemination
in the media.

A national information media campaign focusing on public service announcements ran in
parallel to the BOS social information campaign.

The BOS announcement was released by MoNE over a ten day period commencing 29
November ran until 8 December 2009.

It included information about BOS: definition; objectives; 2009 unit costs; 9-Year compulsory
education requirements; beneficiary schools and the community complaint handling process.

Each province announced the BOS Program in one local newspaper with the following
exceptions: West Java - 5 local newspapers; East Java - 11 local newspapers; Central Java - 5
local newspapers. A total of 49 advertisements appeared in local and national press.

Annex 6: Media Plan provides a breakdown of provincial newspaper advertisements used during
the campaign.

Annex 7 of the Grantee ICR: BOS Beneficiary Schools 2009 Newspaper Announcements
(Socialization Campaign) lists the announcement dates by province.

2010 funding by MoNE to conduct a similar campaign includes several types of activities to
increase parental knowledge about BOS and to create the necessary positive environment for
their involvement in BOS management. District based activities are supported by a media
relations program which includes national advertising and awareness raising in the press,
radio and television.




                                             27
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analyses

An economic and financial analysis for the grant was not conducted given it was a support
program for BOS-KITA. Relevant excerpts from the PAD32 are provided below.

Economic Analysis
"52. The economic analysis shows that the BOS program has brought important
improvements to the education sector (see Annex 9). First, in almost all schools BOS funds
have substantially increased school revenues. In more than 40 percent of schools included in
the second Governance and Decentralization Survey (GDS2), the amount of funds received
through the BOS program exceeded the total funds from other sources. Second, since the
introduction of BOS, increased enrolment was observed at both primary and junior secondary
levels in most provinces. The increase in the enrolment rate at the junior secondary school
level is particularly significant -- evidence that the high cost of education to households was
constraining access".

"54. Certain features of the BOS program make it particularly well equipped to counter
corruption. Pre-BOS, a comparison of service level data from 94 schools in 16 districts
participating in the first Governance and Decentralization Survey module indicates that as
much as one third of the allocated resources may have failed to reach schools. The BOS
program provides assurances by using a very simple and transparent formula and providing
mechanisms for scrutiny both from the top, through the internal audit, and from the bottom,
through community mobilization and oversight. Under the BOS program, where operational
funds are received directly by schools and allocated independently, opportunities for greater
SBM are created.

55. In 95 percent of the cases, these schools further claimed to have experienced positive
benefits from SBM, and mostly observed improvements in students' grades (66 percent of
schools surveyed), their attendance (29 percent of schools surveyed) and discipline (43
percent of schools surveyed).

56. These improved sector outcomes and processes brought about by the BOS program are
expected to generate important gains in economic terms. The first source of these gains is
through increasing lifetime earnings of those children who pursue their education to higher
levels. It is estimated that an increase in enrolment of half of a percentage point would
generate a gain of close to US$14.5 million annually for Indonesia's households (see Annex
9). Additional benefits include savings to the education system obtained from lowering
repetition rates. Using a simple estimate of per-pupil cost of public provision at each level of
education, it is estimated that even a modest decrease in repetition rates by half of a
percentage point would translate into yearly savings of over US$36 million at the primary
level and US$20 million at the junior secondary level. Further savings are realized through
reduced leakage and corruption.




32
     World Bank, 2008b.



                                              28
57. There is strong justification for public investment in a program such as BOS. The BOS
program first addresses equity concerns in education. Although education constitutes an
attractive option for households to invest in, the inability of a large number of households to
meet the present costs of a complete basic education despite the existence of significant
future returns provides a strong rationale for a public subsidy. Without appropriate funding,
Indonesian society as a whole may under-invest in basic education, not only because the
poorest households face financial constraints but also because private investment decisions
fail to take into account the social returns and externalities of basic education. These
additional social returns, including society's value for equity and externalities brought about
by the BOS program, cannot be measured but nonetheless constitute a significant component
of the total benefits of the program".




                                              29
Annex 5. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                       Title               Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)


Supervision/ICR (from Task Team members in all archived ISRs)
 Ratna Kesuma            Operations Officer            EASHE      Team leader
Yogana Prasta            Operations Adviser             EACIF     Operations advice
Imad Saleh               Lead Procurement Specialist    EAPPR     Procurement advice
                         Sr. Financial Management
Novira Kusdarti Asra                                   EAPFM      FM advice
                         Specialist
Dandan Chen              Sr. Economist                 EASHE   Technical adviser
Mae Chu Chang            Lead Education Specialist     EASHD   Supervisor
                                                               Operations
Susie Sugiarti            Operations Analyst             EASHE
                                                               Assistant
                                                               Training
                          STC Capacity Building and
Yvonne Trethewey                                         EASHE development
                          Training (1 month)
                                                               support
                         STC BOS Program Expert for
                         Strengthening of BOS Teams at            Module
Gomer Liufeto                                            EASHE
                         School Level and School                  development
                         Committees (2 months)
                         STC SBM Expert for
                         Strengthening of BOS Teams at            Module
Wahyu Daryono                                            EASHE
                         School Level and School                  development
                         Committees (2 months)
Benedicta Ridati Sembodo Program Assistant               EACIF Program Assistant
Irene Bouwmeester        Program Assistant               EACIF Program Assistant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Grant

Total:                                                               0.00
Supervision/ICR

Total:                                                               0.00




                                         30
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

The table below provides an overview of Grant relevant RIM survey findings and a summary
of reaction level evaluations completed by participants.

Beneficiaries         Survey Type              Results
Provincial and        BOS-KITA Regional         Fund allocation process has been in
District/City         Independent                 accordance with the guidelines in terms of
BOS                   Monitoring33:               the availability of MOU; there is a
Management             to monitor and             relatively small discrepancy with actual
Teams                   evaluate BOS              student numbers.
School BOS              program                 Disclosure on the use of BOS funds to
Management              implementation at         parents and the public at large remains
Teams                   all levels;               limited.
School                 to provide data and      The management skills of schools in
Committees              information on            financial reporting still need improvement,
                        program's success         particularly for primary schools in rural
                        and failures;             areas and in terms of format for K5 and
                       to indicate possible       K6.
                        next steps in           There is a need to explore mechanisms to
                        resolving identified      improve socialization for remote schools.
                        problems.

Provincial and        TOT Reaction level       Reaction level evaluation conducted at the end
District Training     evaluation               of training rated training organization,
Teams34                                        methodology and content as good to very
                                               good in achieving the objectives stated.

                                               Participant recommendations for future
                                               training indicated a need to expand and
                                               improve the training by:
                                                 Increasing the time spent on group work
                                                   and discussions.
                                                 Increasing the time allocation for difficult
                                                   topics and consider using specialists for
                                                   topics such as taxation.
                                                 Conducting the training earlier in the year.
                                                 Ensuring the quality of delivery and
                                                   consistency of training by trainers.




33
     World Bank, 2009g.
34
     MoNE, 2010a: 31-32.


                                                31
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

MoNE convened stakeholder workshops pre and post 2009 training. Discussions during these
workshops informed the design of the 2009 training and provided additional information to
guide the design of 2010 ­ 2011 training. Details are provided below.

Stakeholder         Workshop Details                          Results
MoNE; SBM           December 2008                             Discussions35 provided valuable
Secretariat:        Sharing Experiences Workshop              guidance to the BOS Core Team
ADB;                 To share experiences, lessons learned    which shaped the development
AusAID;                and resources from other SBM and       of the 2009 training, in
JICA;                  financial management training          particular:
UNICEF/UN              initiatives.                            Develop standard operating
ESCO;                To develop a resource library.             procedures and guidelines.
USAID;               To enable materials developers to         Standardize reporting.
World Bank.            `mine' and integrate already            Ensure regular reviews by
                       developed good practice materials.       stakeholders.
                                                               Provide a Help-Desk at Sub-
                    Focus groups discussed:                     District level.
                     How has it been possible for some         Reduce number of cascades.
                       schools to be successful in the         Create a pool of quality
                       management of funds? What are the        trainers and facilitators.
                       key ingredients for success?            Allocate responsibility for
                     What training approaches have              training with supervisors.
                       generated examples of good practice     Establish the role structurally
                       in SBM financial management? What        so its importance is
                       behaviors changed in achieving           recognized.
                       greater transparency, accountability    Preserve training time by
                       and efficiency? How?                     dispensing with opening
                     Given the constraints of a one-day         ceremony.
                       Orientation at school and community     Provide separate training for
                       levels: What lessons learned about       treasurer.
                       SBM financial management                Cater for strong potential for
                       capability development and training      distortion of training message.
                       can be transferred to the 2009
                       Strengthening BOS teams training
                       initiative.




35
     Recommendations are detailed in MoNE, 2010b:18.



                                                  32
Stakeholder    Workshop Details                          Results
MoNE; SBM      December 2009                             Discussions provided valuable
Secretariat:   Strengthening BOS Training 2010/2011      guidance to the BOS Core Team
ADB;           Workshop                                  which shaped the development
AusAID;         To identify lessons learned from the     of the 2010/11 training plan, in
JICA;              2009 BOS-KITA orientation and         particular:
UNICEF/UN          training program with regard to the    Ensure linkages to integrated
ESCO;              management and use of BOS funds.        school planning and
USAID;          To make recommendations for its            budgeting.
World Bank.        improvement and modification.          Provide interactive training to
                To identify the knowledge and skills       develop the necessary
                   (short, medium and long-term)           knowledge and skills.
                   needed to effectively implement and     Materials need to be
                   monitor BOS fund use at school level    straightforward to reduce the
                   which contribute to integrated school   risk of misunderstanding.
                   plans, budgets and reports.            Involve recipients of training
                To identify the resources available        in materials design and
                   from development partners to support    development.
                   MoNE with the development of           Separate modules to cater for
                   training materials which cater for the  diversity.
                   diversity of participant needs and     Ensure focus on data
                   locations.                              collection, BOS mechanisms,
                                                           role of supervisor, school
               Focus groups discussed:                     development plans, linking
                What is needed now to assure success       budget priorities.
                  of BOS at school level? What            Mobilize trainers with
                  modifications are needed to the          experience from other SBM
                  existing training/orientation            activities ­ this will reduce
                  program?                                 procurement challenges as the
                What knowledge, skills and attributes      majority are civil servants.
                  are required to meet the diverse needs   Consider developing a cadre
                  of BOS School Teams? What are            of BOS trainers.
                  Must knows? Should knows? Could         Provide additional support
                  knows?                                   materials e.g. FAQs; Special
                What delivery approaches would             BOS Manual for School
                  ensure effective and cost efficient      Teams.
                  training given expected constraints     Clarify and expand the role of
                  with the training budget? Consider       the School Supervisors to
                  participant diversity, varying BOS       provide ongoing guidance and
                  training needs and physical location?    monitor BOS fund use.
                What resources (human, physical,          Monitor the impact of
                  material) can be accessed from           training.
                  existing/planned SBM/Basic              Involve the SC actively so it
                  Education initiatives to support         is aware of the financial
                  MoNE with the materials                  situation and participate in
                  development process?                     planning.
                                                          Provide information to
                                                           parents to clarify


                                            33
Stakeholder   Workshop Details        Results
                                       misunderstandings about
                                       FBE.
                                       Link BOS training to ongoing
                                       professional development.
                                       Review locations for delivery
                                       to reduce training costs e.g.
                                       provide training at sub-district
                                       level using existing training
                                       centers where available.
                                       Involve the sub-district in
                                       school management, training
                                       and monitoring.




                                 34
Annex 8. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Grantee ICR was developed by the BOS Core Team in close consultation with WB Task
Team members.

It includes stakeholder input and is a reference document for this ICR.
It provides details about:
(i)      Planning, consultation and implementation activities;
(ii)     Budget;
(iii)    Reaction level evaluation findings;
(iv)     Lessons learned;
(v)      Recommendations to guide the 2010 -11 BOS Training Program and Resource and
         Training Materials design and development process;
(vi)     Recommendations to guide 2010 ­ 11 training program implementation.




                                          35
Annex 9. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

A feature of the planning and implementation process has been ongoing consultation with
key stakeholders and donors working on SBM activities at District, Sub-District and School
levels.

During late 2009 and early 2010, MoNE held consultations with MoNE and MoRA
stakeholders and with a range of donors, including Dutch ESP and Dutch EC/BEC-TF
(World Bank), AusAID's Australia-Indonesia Basic Education Programme (AIBEP), ADB's
Minimum Service Standards Project and USAID's Decentralized Basic Education (BDE1)
among others on school assessment, school standards, school planning and training
methodologies.

MoNE has used the opportunity for the redesign of the BOS training to engage relevant
development partners in the process and, to mainstream piloted tools in the training materials
for School BOS Management Teams generating AusAID and ADB parallel-co financing and
World Bank technical advisory support.

Cofinanciers and other partners and stakeholders have been actively involved and informed
the materials development process. School Management Team training will integrate good
practice SBM tools and materials adopted by MoNE e.g. School Self Evaluation; the School
Plan (RKS), the School Activity Plan and Budget (RKAS), School Improvement Planning
(incorporating expected education standards); School Financial Management; Reporting
skills using the Tool for Reporting and Information Management by Schools (TRIMS) and
knowledge development ­ as well as BOS revisions for 2011.




                                             36
Annex 10. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned, issues raised and considerations for the 2010 ­ 2011MoNE and MoRA BOS
training program were identified in review, implementation and supervisory missions and
stakeholder consultations 36 with MoNE and MoRA. They have been used to design the
additional activities and inform the policy dialogue with GoI under BOS-KITA Additional
Financing. The table below provides a detailed summary.

Item            Lesson learned                                Consideration 2010-11
1 Donor funding
1.1 Timing      The significant delays occur with              Plan and agree budget arrangements
                fund distribution due to the time               prior to implementation to avoid
                required to formalize GoI and donor             budget delays.
                agreements.                                    Cater for expected timings of fund
                                                                release by:
                                                                 - accessing BEC-TF support for
                                                                     the development of a BOS
                                                                     training and resource materials
                                                                     by August 2010;
                                                                 - schedule DTT level training to
                                                                     commence in September 2010
                                                                     when ESSP funds are available;
                                                                 - schedule school level training to
                                                                     commence January 2011 when
                                                                     remainder of ESSP grant is
                                                                     available.
                 That capacity building and reaching           Review systems and establish strategies
                 agreement with various levels of              to reduce risk by integrating lessons
                 government is time-consuming and              learned from previous experience.
                 impacted by delayed fund release
                 into provincial DIPAs.
2 Project implementation
2.1 POM          That the POM provided clear                   Ensure that all components are clearly
                 guidelines at all levels which                described and build on lessons learned.
                 facilitated more transparent and
                 accountable use of the grant funds.


2.2 SMIC             That the involvement of MoNE's            Provide support to the BOS Core team
                     public information unit and the BOS       to develop BOS Training Modules and
                     team was limited to key messages in       supplementary resources (FAQs,
                     the SMIC. Various stakeholders and        posters) on relevant topics for
                     beneficiaries were not empowered          stakeholders.


36
     World Bank. 2009c. World Bank. 2009g. World Bank. 2009h. MoNE. 2010a. MoNE. 2010b.



                                                 37
Item           Lesson learned                               Consideration 2010-11
               sufficiently to actively oversight the
               use of BOS.
3 BOS Operational Guidelines
3.1 BOS Manual That the BOS manual is `text-dense'           Continue ongoing refinements to the
               without index making information              manual, in particular, revise manual
               difficult to find.                            layout and consider the addition of an
                                                             index and flow-charts.
                   That the BOS manual should                Cleary indicate in the revised manual
                   separate out the instructions for         changes from earlier versions (e.g.
                   District offices, Head-teachers/          through bold type or shading).
                   Treasurers and School Committees          Separate sections for each level of
                   (and Sub-Districts if their role is       responsibility.
                   enhanced)37.
                   That the 2009 revised manual was          Provide the revised BOS manual
                   not received by some schools until        during training.
                   after the training. Some provinces
                   were not aware38 of changed
                   procedure with regard to
                   dissemination of the manual. In these
                   cases, DTTs provided an overview of
                   the main revisions: higher unit costs;
                   tuition fee exemption for primary,
                   junior secondary and poor students;
                   new eligible expenditures.
                   That there is confusion about             Incorporate revisions to clarify
                   guidelines relating to taxation,          ambiguous items in the 2011 manual.
                   procurement and interest.                 For 2010 TOT training prepare FAQs
                                                             which clarify guidelines. We are
                                                             waiting an MoF letter that will cut the
                                                             tax at source.
                 That variation exists between schools       Include additional criterion to guide
                 about how poor students are                 schools which takes into account
                 determined39.                               situation specific needs.
                 That although transparency and              Ensure that important messages about
                 accountability requirements are             BOS policy and procedure detailed in
                 clearly specified in the BOS manual         the manual is integrated into training
                 and training materials only 20% of          materials and stressed during training.
                 schools display BOS information on
                 notice boards.
4 Training Unit Costs
4.1 Cascade      The unit costs for training                 Calculate unit costs based on location
training Unit    implementation vary significantly           specific realities e.g. transport in remote


37
   World Bank. 2010b:16.
38
   World Bank 2009g: 22.
39
   World Bank 2009g: 17.


                                              38
Item                  Lesson learned                          Consideration 2010-11
Costs                 depending on geographical location,       locations can increase cost by up to 15
                      travel costs and the length of the        times due to additional travel time,
                      training program. For example, the        transport and venue hire costs.
                      time required to manage the impact      Note: the increased budget to
                      of this delayed July scheduled          accommodate the scope of this training is
                      training to October - December in       expected to be ± four times that of 2009.
                      Papua and West Papua.                   Additional funding sources may be
                                                              required.
                      That confusion existed about the         Pay daily per-diem to cover transport,
                      amount of the participant training        accommodation and meals only.
                      allowance (uang harian). In 2009,         Material printing will be done
                      this was a set amount which included      separately.
                      costs for food and materials
                      reproduction which were deducted
                      before giving participants' their
                      allowance. This caused confusion in
                      some community groups as they did
                      not understand the calculation.
5 Logistics
5.1 Venue and         That suitable training venues and        Review 2009 deliveries
accommodation         accommodation are not readily            Encourage districts to use MoNE and
                      available in some districts/sub-         MoRA appropriate facilities where
                      districts.                               possible.
                      That venues used in some locations       Procure (using GoI procurement
                      were not conducive to adult learning.    procedures) in advance of training.
                      In some districts classrooms were        Conduct training in venues that are not
                      crowded (50 ­ 108 participants) and      noisy and crowded40.
                      group activities not conducted.          Explore options to deliver some training
                                                               through the 300+ videoconferencing
                                                               resource centers.
                                                               Prepare checklists for DTTs to ensure
                                                               venues are appropriate for the delivery
                                                               of the School Short Course in RKS,
                                                               RKAS and School Reporting.
6 Training Design
6.1 BOS          That inconsistency in trainer                 Design and develop a suite of training
Training and     approaches, capacity and                      materials and supporting resource
Resource         interpretation of roles and                   materials to meet training needs
Materials        responsibilities and, training                identified and to mitigate the risks
                 materials highlight the need to               associated with skills and knowledge
                 develop more comprehensive                    gaps due to high staff turnover at


40
     World Bank, 2009d: 12.




                                                39
Item                 Lesson learned                                Consideration 2010-11
                     materials so as to provide a                   District level. The materials should
                     consistent BOS message.                        comprise:
                                                                    - TOTs for Training Teams
                                                                    - Short Course Module for School
                                                                        Teams (2 days for Advanced
                                                                        Schools; 3 days for Intermediate
                                                                        Schools; 4 days for Basic schools)
                                                                        ­ with supporting DVD.
                                                                    - BOS supplementary information.
6.2 Length of        That a one-day orientation program             Consider the diverse needs of Advanced
School Team          at school level is insufficient to meet        Schools, Intermediate Schools and
Training             the knowledge and skill requirements           Basic Schools. Design 2, 3 and 4 day
                     necessary for School BOS                       versions of the School Team Training to
                     Management Teams to produce                    meet needs for each cluster.
                     integrated school plans, budgets and
                     reports and limit the effective use of
                     BOS funds.
6.3                  That training methodology needs to             Increase the number of days for school
Methodology,         cater for diverse participant needs             team training (refer 6.2).
logistics            and provide opportunities for                  Recruit trainers from the cadre
                     activities and participant discussions          identified by other SBM programs so
                     that address practical challenges in            as to ensure trainers have the capability
                     BOS management faced by                         to train as specified in materials
                     schools41.                                      developed.
                     That the program design must take              Incorporate risk identification and
                     into account the strong potential for           management strategies in the TOT for
                     cascade training to distort the                 District BOS Management Teams.
                     training message42; logistical issues          Ensure balance of training time enables
                     affecting training delivery such as:            capacity to be built at the School level.
                     electricity, access to computers,              Ensure training materials are designed
                     availability of hotels, and                     for use with and without a computer or
                     procurement delays with venue hire.             LCD projector.
6.4 School           That multiple school report formats            Consider consolidating reports to
reporting            lead to excessive, redundant                   streamline reporting: school-district-
                     reporting and a drain on time-poor             province-central e.g. BEC-TF will pilot
                     staff at schools and in Districts43.           `TRIMS' a simplified EMIS tool in
                                                                    schools in 8 districts for inclusion in the


41
   World Bank, 2009g: 23.
42
   MTR findings indicated that the message was frequently "distorted from the top of the system (where
more hours are devoted to the training) to the bottom. Supervision from the top all the way to the bottom is
essential as is the availability of training materials and handbook but this must be reinforced. Spending
more training time at the bottom (where BOS implementation takes place) and less at the top would also be
useful" (World Bank. 2009e:15).
43
   In the sample schools visited fund allocation and distribution was not informed by standardized processes
causing delayed arrival of BOS funds; allocations that were inaccurate; and, irregular borrowing and
postponing of payments to suppliers to cover operational costs (World Bank, 2009g: 28-34).


                                                    40
Item                 Lesson learned                               Consideration 2010-11
                                                                   School Team short course.
6.5 FAQs             That there are a number of items              Develop straightforward FAQs
                     described in the BOS manual which             information sheets to supplement TOTs
                     require further clarification e.g. FBE;       and School Team training.
                     different `forms' of fraud and
                     corruption ­ intentional and
                     unintentional; taxation; role of the
                     school committee; information
                     disclosure on BOS requirements;
                     disaster risk reduction; purchasing
                     guidelines for computers and internet
                     plans etc.
7 Training Needs
7.1 District BOS That high staff turnover at district              Expand DTT training materials to
Management       level limits the sustainability of                accommodate increased skills and
Teams            training.                                         knowledge requirements for District
                                                                   Teams with regard to BOS
                                                                   management, support and monitoring
                                                                   and the achievement of Minimum
                                                                   Service Standards44.

                     That the role and responsibilities of         Clarify the role of the Sub-District and
                     local governments with regard to              involve Pengawas in District training.
                     financing and managing the BOS
                     program are expected to increase
                     indicating the need for structured
                     training at District and possibly Sub-
                     District levels. Currently Sub-
                     Districts have weakened ability to
                     deal with much more than system
                     administration.45
                     That there are inconsistencies in how         Ensure training includes an additional
                     procurement guidelines are                    focus on procurement guidelines to
                     interpreted by Districts and School           strengthen the capacity of school
                     BOS Management Teams with                     purchasing teams and reduce incidents
                     incidents that may be perceived as            of irregular procurement practices.
                     outside BOS regulatory guidelines.
7.2 School           That the role of the school supervisor        Clarify the role of the School
Supervisors          is not clear with regard to BOS               Supervisor as responsible for assessing
                     management and supervision. BOS               the eight national education standards
                     2010 encourages School Supervisors            including school management and
                     to include integrated BOS                     school financing ­ as well as providing



44
   A key challenge for local governments is to provide differentiated support to schools to assist them to
meet Minimum Service Standards (World Bank, 2010c).
45
   World Bank. 2009e:22.


                                                   41
Item                  Lesson learned                             Consideration 2010-11
                      monitoring and supervision in school        educational guidance with the learning
                      supervisory activities.                     process. Note: one of the four
                                                                  supervisor competencies is the ability to
                                                                  supervise school financing.46
                                                                  Consider dedicated School Supervisor
                                                                  training to build the necessary capacity
                                                                  o support schools to achieve the
                                                                  Minimum Service Standards.

                      That in some districts School               Ensure District Management teams are
                      Supervisor training in BOS                  aware of the rationale for the increased
                      supervision facilitated district            role of School Supervisors with regard
                      monitoring and reporting                    to integrated BOS monitoring and
                      requirements.                               supervisory activities.
                                                                  Provide training for School Supervisors
                                                                  as part of the 2010 capacity building
                                                                  training program.
7.3 Audit             That difference in audit findings and       Include audit agency staff in provincial
agencies              guidance between government                 and district level training to mitigate the
                      agencies such as BPK, BPKP and              risk of misinterpreting the BOS manual
                      Inspectorate Daerah on BOS fund             disseminating incorrect information.
                      usage caused several delays with
                      disbursement. Inconsistent
                      interpretation of local policy with
                      regard to training fund allocations
                      created delays to delivery indicating
                      additional training needs for targeted
                      Audit agency personnel.
7.4 School            That School Committees are                  Replace parent representative in 2011
Committees            generally perceived as not having the       School Team training with a School
                      capacity to fulfill governance              Committee member.
                      responsibilities with regard to school
                      improvement planning and financial          Develop a FAQs which provides
                      management.                                 guidance to the School Committee and
                                                                  supports the trained School Committee
                                                                  member to orient the full SC so that
                                                                  they can review the RKS/SIP and
                                                                  ensure that BOS allocations and
                                                                  expenditures are in line with priorities
                                                                  outlined in the RKS/SIP.
                      That while the Chair of the SC is           Support the SC member nominated to
                      generally trained to sign off BOS           participate in the school training to



46
     Government Regulation No. 19 (PP19) 2005 and Ministerial Decree No 12. 2007.



                                                   42
Item             Lesson learned                           Consideration 2010-11
                 expenditure reports, there is a need      discuss new learning and its
                 for BOS plans and actual expenditure      implications with the full committee by
                 to be reviewed by the full SC so as to    providing additional resource materials,
                 ensure effective oversight and            FAQs and school chair and SC
                 accurate and regular disclosure of        guidelines.
                 information to parents and the
                 community.
7.5 School BOS   That there is significant diversity in   Cluster schools according to capacity
Management       capacity and capability at school        indicated by mapping process:
Teams            level in planning, budgeting,             Basic School level training will be 5
                 reporting and computer literacy.            days duration (incl. transport)
                                                           Intermediate School level training will
                                                             be 4 days duration (incl. transport)
                                                           Advanced School level training will be
                                                             2 or 3 days duration (incl. transport)
                 That schools have only limited            Design and conduct a mandatory and
                 understanding of the requirements          targeted RKS, RKAS, SIP and school
                 for School Improvement Plans,              reporting short course for School
                 financial management of BOS,               Management Teams. It should meet
                 complaint handling and information         diverse participant needs and focus on
                 disclosure.                                financial and educational management
                                                            and interpersonal knowledge and skills
                 That full School Team participation        requirements, providing opportunity for
                 rates were inconsistent.                   practical application and discussion.
                                                            The course should include:
                                                             - SIPs which indicate how BOS
                                                                (along with other sources of
                                                                funding) will be used to attain
                                                                school improvement goals guided
                                                                by school upgrading and local needs
                                                                and National Education Standards;
                                                             - strategies to ensure that BOS fund
                                                                use is linked to school operational
                                                                needs; student specific access or
                                                                learning needs rather than to
                                                                predominantly finance teachers
                                                                through temporary teacher honoraria
                                                                and or activities related to
                                                                testing/assessments /clarification;
                                                             - additional guidelines about
                                                                conducting procurement.
                                                           Review existing materials (MoNE,
                                                            DBE1, AIBEP and World Bank) with
                                                            key MoNE and MoRA stakeholders.
                                                            Customize and integrate into more in-
                                                            depth training.



                                            43
Item                 Lesson learned                               Consideration 2010-11
                     That the empowerment of parents,              Integrate activities/discussions that
                     the community and the oversight of            generate suggestions to strengthen
                     the SC emphasizes the need to build           relationships/consultations with parents,
                     Principal/Head Teacher leadership             SC and community about BOS usage
                     and management capacity to respond            plans, actual expenditures and
                     effectively to the financial, political       outcomes.
                     and interpersonal challenges of
                     BOS47.
                     That disclosure about BOS fund use            Stress Freedom of Information Act48
                     to parents and the community is               mandated requirements and BOS policy
                     inconsistent and limited.                     and procedure with regard to access
                                                                   public information.
7.6 Parents and      That socialization activities were not        Incorporate information FAQs and
community            conducted in all targeted sub-districts       information posters (which describe
                     and there is ongoing confusion about          BOS objectives; BOS Unit Costs; the
                     Free Basic Education49.                       role of the School Committee) in
                                                                   training materials.
8 Training and sustainability of Training Teams
8.1 Trainer      That the selection and recruitment of   Identify potential trainers from existing
selection and    trainers needs to consider past         and past SBM MoNE, MoRA and
sustainability   experience with BOS. District level     donor training initiatives.
                 trainer capacity varied significantly   Recruit and develop a cadre of BOS
                 reduced the effectiveness of training.  Trainers.
                                                         Revise selection criteria to include:
                 That trainers holding senior positions   Previous BOS/SBM expertise
                 tended to follow their own agenda        Computer literacy
                 rather than that of the TOT training     MS Word and MS Excel knowledge
                 materials.                                 and skills.
                                                         Ensure trainers are aware of the
                                                         importance of and need for consistency
                                                         in training so that the training is
                                                         delivered as designed.
                                                         Explore ways to
                                                         accredit/institutionalize the position
                                                         and provide support to School Teams
                                                         post- training.
9 Training schedule


47
   MTR findings findings indicate that "a further more systemic problem is that the empowerment of
parents, the community and the SC will place even great pressures on head teachers ­ already stressed by
BOS's financial and audit requirements ­ for transparency and democracy. Since most head teachers were
promoted from senior teachers (not necessarily based on merit) when the post was a much more autocratic
one and now, with little additional training, faced with the challenges of BOS, many of them end up being
both inadequate for the job and de-motivated" (World Bank. 2009 e:14).
48
   Freedom of Information Act, No. 14, 2008: Articles 4, 5, 6.
49
   Of 27 districts/cities monitored only 5 conducted socialization activities (World Bank, 2009g: 27, 28).



                                                   44
Item                Lesson learned                         Consideration 2010-11
9.1 Timing          That school team training should be     Schedule training at times to ensure full
                    scheduled to avoid the busiest times    participation by School Teams and
                    of the school year.                     School Committee. Consider January
                                                            2011 start for the School Short Course
                                                            training roll-out.
9.2             That the small size of some schools         Consider scheduling training during
2-3 person      limits participation. Full attendance       holiday periods for small schools to
schools         may result in school closure.               facilitate full School Team attendance.
10 Transparency and Accountability
10.1            That the Core BOS Team's
           Timely                                       Provide training in project management
financial       instigation of quarterly meetings with   to facilitate effective financial
reporting:      Provincial BOS Teams facilitated         management and the production of
Central,        improved communication,                  audit reports to the necessary required
Provincial and  opportunities to collect financial       standards.
District levels.management and program                  Ensure that audit findings related to
                implementation information, and was      internal controls in the areas of project
                conducive to establishing more           management and payment verifications
                effective working relationships. This    relating to overpayments, insufficient
                reduced some of the usual delays in      supporting information and
                obtaining information from the           unaccounted use of funds are acted
                provinces.                               upon and provided in a timely manner
                                                        Ensure that participants' return travel
                                                         ticket is also submitted as support
                                                         documentation for future training
                                                         activities.
                                                        Maintain quarterly meetings with
                                                         Provincial BOS Teams.
                That donor support is needed to         Allocate an Operations Assistant to
                facilitate the recipient with project   support MoNE's Core Team to develop
                reports, plans. A WB Operations         timely project papers and reports.
                Assistant provided additional help to
                MoNE to meet requirements.
                That an additional Financial            Employ 3 full-time Financial
                Management Consultant was needed        Management Consultants and 2
                to mitigate the risks associated with   Procurement Consultants for a 3-4
                poor information flows to meet MoF      month period ­ to manage the expanded
                and donor financial reporting           scope of the 2010-11 program.
                requirements.
10.2 Monitoring That anecdotal, qualitative results     Integrate recommendations into
and evaluation  derived from the training and           2010/11 BOS training materials and
                monitoring exercise should be           revisions.
                combined with the results of the
                independent monitoring team.




                                              45
Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents

ACER, 2006. OECD Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA). The PISA
International Database. PISA 2006 Data Set. http://pisa2006.acer.edu.au

AusAID. 2010. Education Sector Support Programme Results Framework: Guide to
Rationale, Indicators, Targets and Monitoring. Indonesia. May 2010.

Badan Pengawasan Keuangan Dan Pembangunan (BPKP). 2010. Laporan Auditor
Independen atas Laporan Keuangan Konsolidasi. Dutch Education Support Program Bantuan
Operasional Sekolah Knowledge Improvement for Transparency and Accountability (BOS-
KITA). Grant Number 93613. Untuk Tahun Anggaran Yang Berakhir 31 Desember 2009.
Nomor: LHA-32/D104/02/2010. Tanggal: 28 Juni 2010. Indonesia.

Central Bureau of Statistics. Survey Sosial Ekonomi Nasional (SUSENAS) - 2007 and 2009.
Jakarta Indonesia. http://www.rand.org/labor/bps/susenas/

International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA). 2005.
TIMSS 2003. International Mathematics Report by Ina V.S. Mullis, I. Michael O. Martin,
Pierre Foy. International Study Center, Lynch School of Education, Boston College.

MoNE. 2009a. BOS Manual for Free Education in the Framework of Quality 9-year
Compulsory Education. Directorate General for the Management of Primary and Secondary
Education, Ministry of National Education, Indonesia.

MoNE 2009b. Monitoring and Evaluation Report. Socialization in 33 Provinces Bantuan
Operasional Sekolah (BOS) Program. Year 2009. Directorate of Junior High School.
Directorate General of Basic Education Management. The Ministry of National Education.
2009.

MoNE 2009c. Supervision Report Teacher and Community Training at School Level Year
2009. Directorate of Junior High School. Directorate General of Basic Education
Management. The Ministry of National Education. 2009.

MoNE. 2010a. Draft MoNE and MoRA Training Plan and Budget 2010 and 2011. March
2010. Directorate General for the Management of Primary and Secondary Education,
Ministry of National Education, Indonesia.

MONE. 2010b. Draft Implementation and Completion and Results Report on a Dutch
Education Support Program Grant TF093613 in the amount of US8.5 million to the Republic
of Indonesia for the school Operational Assistance ­ Knowledge Improvement for
Transparency and Accountability. BOS-KITA Capacity Development and Campaigns, 2009.
Directorate General for the Management of Primary and Secondary Education, Ministry of
National Education, Indonesia.

World Bank. 2008b. Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of Six
Hundred Million (US$600,000,000) to the Republic of Indonesia for a School Operational




                                          46
Assistance ­ Knowledge Improvement for Transparency and Accountability Project (BOS-
KITA). September 18, 2008. Indonesia.

World Bank. 2008c. Grant Appraisal Document (GAD) Dutch Basic Education Support
Program. Grant Agreements for BOS-KITA Capacity Development and Campaigns
$8,500,000. Version 1.2. December 5, 2008. Indonesia.

World Bank. 2009a. Grant Agreement: Grant Number TF093613 ­ Dutch Education Support
Program ­ BOS-KITA. Indonesia.

World Bank. 2009b. Implementation Status and Results Report for Investment Projects
Indonesia, ID-BOS KITA Project (Project ID: P107661 ­ Loan/Credit No: IBRD75910.
11/02/2009. Indonesia.

World Bank. 2009c. Draft GRM Internal Bank Report TF 093613 07/01/2008 ­ 06/30/2009.
Indonesia.

World Bank, 2009d. Indonesia School Operational Assistance ­ Knowledge Improvement for
Transparency and Accountability (BOS-KITA). First World Bank Review and
Implementation Support Mission (July 2 ­ August 28 2009). Aide Memoire. Indonesia.

World Bank. 2009e. Mid-Term Review: TF057272 (Pir 14499) ­ Dutch Basic Education
Support Program. August 2009. Indonesia.

World Bank, 2009f. Presentation: Independent Monitoring Report BOS 2008. Regional
Independent Monitoring Team. September 2009. Indonesia.

World Bank, 2009g. Independent Monitoring Report: The Summary of the Monitoring Result.
Regional Independent Monitoring Team. 4 November 2009. Indonesia.

World Bank. 2009h. Background Paper MoNE/MoRA Socialisation and Training for School
Principals and other School and Community Members. Dec. 2009. Jakarta.

World Bank. 2010a. Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing in the amount of
US$500 million to the Republic of Indonesia for the School Operational Assistance ­
Knowledge Improvement for Transparency and Accountability Project (BOS-KITA). April
23 2010. Human Development Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region.

World Bank. 2010b. Draft Implementation Status and Results Report for Investment Projects
Indonesia, ID-BOS KITA Project (Project ID: P107661 ­ Loan/Credit No: IBRD75910.
06/0402010. Indonesia.

World Bank, 2010c. Transforming Indonesia's Teaching Force. Policy Brief. April 2010.
Human Development Sector, Indonesia.

World Bank, 2010d. Loan Agreement (Additional Financing for the BOS-KITA School
Operational Assistance- Knowledge Improvement for Transparency and Accountability
Project (Loan Number 7906-ID) between the Republic of Indonesia and International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, Indonesia. June 23, 2010.


                                           47
World Bank, 2010e. Project Supervision ­ Financial Management Datasheet for FM Rating
of Projects. Indonesia. June 2010.




                                         48
                    95°                            100°                         105°                            110°                         115°                       120°                        125°          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
              15°                                                                                                                                                                                                 or any endorsement or                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
                                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                 boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                          MYANMAR
                                                                                                   VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                         THAILAND                                                                                                                         Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135°                    140°


               Banda Aceh
                                                                                           L          A        Y
              5°                                                               A                                          S        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                                  5°
                            1
                                              Medan                     M                       Natuna
                                                                                                                               I                                                    Celebes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Talaud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.

                           Pematangsiantar
                                                                                                 Besar
                                                                                                                                                              Tarakan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea                                                      PACI F I C                 OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24




                                                                                                                                   A
               Simeulue
                                                                                                 19                                                                                                                             Morotai
                                                2                                                                                                                                           Manado
                                                                               SINGAPORE                                                            23
                                Nias                                              Tanjungpinang                                                                                                             Ternate           Halmahera
                                                               Pekanbaru                                                                                                             25
              0°                                                   3                              Pontianak                   KALIMANTAN
                                                                                                                              K AL IM ANTAN                                26              Gorontalo                                         Waigeo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                                      Lingga                          20                                  Samarinda                                                                                     Manokwari
                                       Me




                                              Padang                                                                                                                                                            30                                                             Biak
                                                                                                                                                         Balikpapan
                                                                                                                                                                          Palu                                                                     Sorong
                                                          4             5                                                                                                                      Peleng                      Obi
                                         nt




                                              Siberut                         Jambi        Bangka                                   21
                                         aw




                                                                                               Pangkalpinang                                                       SULAWESI                                                                 Misool     32              Yapen                   Jayapura
                                                              SUMATERA                                                    Palangkaraya
                                                                                                                                                         Mamuju
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sula Is.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ceram
                                              ai




                                                                                                 9                                              22
                                                                   6               Palembang              Belitung
                                                                                                                                                                 27                                                                Amahai Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                  Is




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Buru
                                                                                   7                                          Bandjarmasin                                        29      Kendari                                                                              33     PAPUA
                                                    .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW GUINEA
                                                         Bengkulu                                                                                             Parepare                                                 Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timika        Puncak Jaya
                                                                                      8                                                                                                      Muna                                                                                     (5030 m)
              5°                                                             Bandar                                  Java Sea                             Makassar                                                                                     Kai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAPUA
                                                        Enggano
                                                                            Lampung
                                                                                        11                                                                                                 Baubau                        Banda 31                      Is.
                                                                                          JAKARTA
                   0       200         400 Kilometers                            Serang                                                                                                                                   Sea                                   Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Is.
                                                                                           12Bandung Semarang                      Madura
                                                                                      10                       13                                                                                               Wetar
                                                                                                                                   Surabaya                                                                                        Babar             Tanimbar
                   0      100      200      300        400 Miles                           JAWA          Yogyakarta
                                                                                                                                               16          Sumbawa                                  Alor                  Moa                        Is.
                                                                                                                                   15          Bali Lombok       Raba            Flores
                                                                                                                     14                                                                                                                                                                  Merauke
                    95°                            100°                         105°                                                 Denpasar       Mataram                         Ende                                                                    Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                                           18                                   TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                         17
               PROVINCES:                                                                                                                10°                     Waingapu Sumba                      Timor                                                                                                10°
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kupang
               1   NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                    12      JAWA BARAT                         23   KALIMANTAN TIMUR
               2   SUMATERA UTARA                              13      JAWA TENGAH                        24   SULAWESI UTARA
               3   RIAU                                        14      D.I. YOGYAKARTA                    25   GORONTALO
               4
               5
                   SUMATERA BARAT
                   JAMBI
                                                               15
                                                               16
                                                                       JAWA TIMUR
                                                                       BALI
                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                          27
                                                                                                               SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                                                               SULAWESI BARAT
                                                                                                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN
               6   BENGKULU                                    17      NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                28   SULAWESI SELATAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33420R2
               7   SUMATERA SELATAN                            18      NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                29   SULAWESI TENGGARA
AUGUST 2008




               8   LAMPUNG                                     19      RIAU KEPULAUAN                     30   MALUKU UTARA              15°                                                                                                                                                              15°
               9   BANGKA-BELITUNG                             20      KALIMANTAN BARAT                   31   MALUKU
              10   BANTEN                                      21      KALIMANTAN TENGAH                  32   PAPUA BARAT                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA
              11   D.K.I. JAKARTA                              22      KALIMANTAN SELATAN                 33   PAPUA                         115°                       120°                        125°                              130°                            135°                    140°
