Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25254
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P5900; IDA-27410; COFN-03850; PPFI-P6690)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$22.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR A
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
03/31//2003
Rural Development Operations
Eastern & Southern Africa, AFTR1
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 20O2)
Cur.rency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
1 ETB = US$ 0.118
US$ 1 = Birr 8.45
FISCAL YEAR
8 July to  7 July
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ESE           Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
EARO          Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FBSPMS        Farmer-Based Seed Production and Marketing System
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
IBCR          Institute for Biodiversity Conservation and Research
NEIP          National Extension Intervention Program
NGO           Non-governmental organization
NSIA          National Seed Industry Agency
NVRC          National Variety Release Committee
PCMU          Project coordination and monitoring unit
SAR           Staff appraisal report
SMPC          Seed multiplication and processing center
SNNPR         Southern Nations and Nationalities People's Region
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager/Director:  Karen M. Brooks
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Berhane Manna



ETHIOPIA
NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              15
6. Sustainability                                                                  16
7. Bank and Bofrower Performance                                                   18
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                  20
9. Partner Comments                                                                21
10. Additional Information                                                         22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               29
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               32
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              34
Annex 8. Farmer-Based Seed Production and Marketing Scheme                         35
Annex 9. Seed Enterpnse Development                                                49
Annex 10 Regulatory and Institutional Framework                                    63
Annex 11. Map - Location of SSDP Interventions                                     70
Annex 12. Summary of Borrower's ICR                                                71



Project ID: P000752                                      Project Name: SEED SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Team Leader: Berhane Manna                               TL Unit: AFTR1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 28, 2003
1. Project Data
Name- SEED SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT               L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P5900;
IDA-27410;
COFN-03850;
PPFI-P6690
Country/Department: ETHIOPIA                                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Central govemment administration (37%);
Agricultural extension and research (34%);
Agricultural marketing and trade (29%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/15/1991                            Effective.  11/01/1992        06/26/1996
Appraisal  02/10/1992                                MTR- 02/01/1999           07/16/1999
Approval:  06/13/1995                             Closing: 12/31/2000          09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementingAgency: GOVT. OF ETHIOPIA/NATIONAL SEED INDUSTRY AGENCY
Other Partners-  IFAD (co-financier)
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       E. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Ishac Diwan                              F. Colaco
Sector Manager:      Karen M. Brooks                           Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:  Berhane Manna                            AmaLijit S. Sodhi
ICR Primary Author:  FAO-WB
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective
The project's objective was to contribute to the national goal of increasing agricultural production and
productivity by laying the foundation for the development of a broad-based and competitive seed industry
that draws its strength from both the formal and the informal seed systems. The project sought to achieve
this objective by providing support to strengthen institutions and human resources the seed business,
supporting the development of the informal seed sector, by encouraging private sector entry into the formal
seed business, and by restructuring the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE) from a centrally-managed
parastatal to a decentralized and commercially-oriented enterprise.
At the time the project was conceived and prepared, the economy of Ethiopia under the transitional
government was undergoing a profound economic and political transition from a centrally planned system
to a market-oriented system in which pnvate rather than collective ownership would dominate most sectors
of the economy and efficiency would be stimulated by competition with increased intemational openness.
Thus, the project's focus on laying the foundation for a broad-based and competitive seed industry was, and
remains fully consistent with the evolving broad policy framework.
The project adopted the following approach: (1) The development of informal seed production by farmers
scattered throughout the nation would make improved seeds much more readily available to poor farmers
even in remote areas. (2) Greater involvement of the private sector in seed production and marketing would
create improved seed market efficiency and was m line with the Government's general policy of
withdrawing from direct production and marketing, activities that could be easily carried out by the private
sector. (3) The Government sought to avoid an abrupt withdrawal from seed production and marketing
before the private sector took root, and hence adopted the strategy of not liquidating ESE right away, but
rather restructuring it and using it as an agent of change (through contracts to private commercial and
small farmers to produce seeds and to market the seeds through a network of private and cooperative
retailers). (4) The focus on capacity building was in full recognition of the dire situation in which
Ethiopia's institutions and human resources were at the time.
The project was conceived of as the first phase of a 15 to 20 year program to lay the foundation for change.
Through its support to the Plant Genetic Resources Center, it also promoted conservation of indigenous and
locally-adapted germplasm upon which small farmers rely heavily.
The project's objectives reflected essential priorities for rural development and poverty alleviation in
Ethiopia, as identified by both the govemment and the Bank's country assistance strategy. They were in
line with the govemment's national seed industry policy, announced in 1992 that laid out a new framework
for producing and distributing improved seeds and plant materials, envisaging a larger role for the private
sector, especially small farmers, in producing and distributing seeds, providing for the establishment of a
new organizational set-up to facilitate cooperative linkage and coordination between the various
participants in the seed industry, and specifying arrangements for regulating seed quality standards,
importing and exporting seeds, and other seed related issues.
As noted in section 4.1 below, the project was broadly successful in laying the foundation for a competitive
seed sector. At the same time, the ability of this foundation to support an actively functioning competitive
seed sector was circumscribed during the life of this project by decisions that the Government took
separately with regard to the agricultural extension service, and in particular the linkage of input supply
and provision of credit with extension. As a consequence much of the marketing of seed during the life of
- 2 -



the project was channeled through the extension service, and actual development of private enterprise and
competition was limited. Nonetheless, the project succeeded in building human capacity, a regulatory
framework, and physical and institutional arrangements that will endure and serve the economy well as the
Government restructures the role and mandate of extension. Through the PRSP process, the CAS
workshops, and clarification of its rural development strategy, the Government has articulated a
commitment to recast extension into a more limited role and to provide a better environment for
development of the private sector in provision of inputs. Because of the accomplishments under this
project, the foundation is in place to move ahead in this direction in the seed industry.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised during implementation. Soon after the project became
effective, the government proposed replacing the informal seed multiplication component with a more
ambitious program conceived of as both a continuation of the national extension intervention program
(NEIP) and as a source of seed to be included in the input packages supplied on credit through NEIP (see
annex 8 for details). The revised scheme provided for grouping of farmers into "seed growers teams"
without merging their individual holdings. Responsibility for inspection was assigned to staff of the Zonal
Agricultural Department. Given the absence of a formal seed marketing system, seed would be procured by
the regional agricultural bureaus in the initial years but at the same time efforts would be made to create an
environment to encourage private sector entry into seed production and marketing. Thus, although the
objectives were not revised, the modalities for achieving the objectives were modified during the course of
implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two broad components:
(1)    Seed Enterprise Development (US$17.2 million). This included three subcomponents:
o Informal sector-Secondary seed multiplication scheme (US$5.0 million), which focused on
upgrading traditional, informal seed exchange systems through training and provision of improved
seeds and simple tools to clean and store seeds. The subcomponent also helped to strengthen extension
services by providing the services with training, vehicles, and seed kits for distribution to farmers.
o  Formal sector-Ethiopia Seed Enterprise (US$11.2 million), which focused on supporting the ESE
through its restructuring to a more decentralized structure. Specific activities included a feasibility
study of a proposed seed farm and the eventual financing of the farm, rehabilitation of the seed
processing facilities and equipment of ESE, procurement of a mobile seed cleaner, training through the
NSIA of staff of ESE and public and private sector organizations on the operation, management, and
maintenance of seed processing plants, and upgrading of the ESE's headquarters seed testing
laboratory and establishing mini laboratories at each of the five regional units.
o  Formal sector-Encouraging private sector entry into the seed business (US$1.0 million), which
supported public information campaigns to mobilize the interest of the private sector, assisted private
actors in preparing feasibility studies and business plans suitable for financing by commercial banks,
advising on appropriate technology, identifying domestic and international financial institutions willing
to support private sector initiatives in seed production and distribution. This subcomponent also
provided private producer-sellers with technical advice, training, and basic and certified seeds of
improved varieties.
- 3-



(2)    Capacity Building (US$13.8 million). This included two subcomponents:
*      Institutional strengthening (12.0 million), which involved strengthening:
(a)  NSIA: providing equipment, furniture, vehicles and technical assistance.
(b)  National variety release committee: funding one full-time officer in the NSIA, workshops,
publications, and recurrent costs.
(c)  Plant quarantine service: providing vehicles and funding to operate and maintain them.
(d)  Plant genetics resource center: constructing storage and drying rooms at its headquarters,
and supplying vehicles, machinery, equipment, and funding to operate and maintain them.
(e)  Alemaya University of Agriculture and the Ethiopian Agricultural Research Organization:
upgrading nine breeder seed stations, and providing funding for faculty visits, incremental
operating costs, salaries and wages, and office and laboratory supplies.
(f)  Quality control and seed certification: establishing a national quality control and seed
certification system, including an independent national seed testing laboratory under the
NSIA.
(g)  National seed reserve: conductmg a study.
(h)  ESE supporting the restructuring, development of a business plan, and development of a
management information system.
* Human resources development (US$1.8 million). This involved technical assistance and training in
operating and maintaining seed processing and storage facilities, implementing a marketing strategy,
and developing a management information system. The subcomponent would also support local
training and workshops, strengthening of staff and programs at the university, and foreign fellowships
for one doctoral and five master's students studying seed technology.
The project was to be executed over five years. Overall responsibility for project implementation rested
with the NSIA, which established a small project coordination and monitoring unit (PCMU) to handle day
to day tasks. The National Seed Industry Council, an apex institution responsible for providing policy
guidance, reviewing and monitoring the overall development of the seed sector, and promoting capacity
building, was to review implementation progress at regular intervals and help resolve any problems. Two
distinct entities were responsible for procurement under the project: the NSIA and the ESE. The NSIA was
to procure civil works, goods for use by the agency and all other institutions benefiting from the project,
training, technical assistance, and studies. The ESE, subject to supervision of the NSIA, was to procure
works, goods, and consultant services related to its activities with funds onlent from the government under
a subsidiary project agreement between IDA and the ESE. The regional agricultural bureaus were to play
a critical role in implementation by supporting development of informal seed development and distribution
and coordinating and monitoring implementation of the secondary seed multiplication scheme.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not formally revised during project implementation. Following approval of the
project by the Bank's Board, the govemment proposed a much more ambitious program to promote the
development of the infornal sector, called the farmer-based seed production and marketing scheme
(FBSPMS), and included IFAD as a parallel financier to help finance it. The government developed this
scheme, with the declared intention of supporting seed production by farmers who would be assisted with
the supply of basic seed and seed processing equipment, but with limited technical supervision while
marketing would continue, as in the original secondary seed multiplication scheme, to be the responsibility
-4 -



of the farmers themselves. Instead of supporting the traditional system of informal seed production and
farmer-to-farmer seed exchange, group of farmers or seed growers' teams would multiply seeds under a
system involving field inspection, processing, and testing of seed samples to ensure that seed lots met
prescribed samples. The scheme provided basic seed, threshers, rnaize shellers, mobile cleaners, and
graduated cylinders. During the initial years the regional agricultural bureaus were to procure the seeds; in
subsequent years seed growers would be free to sell their output on their own. The total cost of the
subcomponent rose to US$14 million, of which IDA was to finance US$4.5 million and IFAD was
responsible for US$6.1 million with the government covering the remaining balance.
Given the strong ownership of the FBSPMS at the highest levels in both the federal and the regional
governments, the Bank agreed in early 1997 to revise the informal sector subcomponent along the lines
proposed by government. A new implementation plan for the subcomponent was completed in April 1997.
The IFAD loan was declared effective in March 1997 and on-farm activities commenced during the
1997/98 cropping season. The change was consistent with original objectives, and hence no formal
restructuring was undertaken.
During implementation project costs were revised. Soon after the project became effective, the government
decided to finance all recurring costs, a welcome development as it contributes to sustainability once
implementation is complete. The changes as reflected in an amendment to the development credit
agreement included the cancellation of SDR 3.23 million, the deletion of the basic seed farm and the
construction of stores for ESE, and the addition of an establishment of twelve regional seed testing
mini-laboratories for NSIA and of six seed reserve stores in drought-prone areas. Changes were also made
to make it easier for the government to cope with emergency situations by procuring seeds locally,
including through payment for local transportation and insurance costs.
The project closing date was extended twice. The first extension to December 31, 2001 was granted to
allow the implementing entities to complete ongoing tasks. The second September 30, 2002 was granted to
allow the ESE to complete the importation of equipment vital to transport and distribute seeds.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's development objectives were clear. They were consistent with the government's development
strategy and the Bank's country assistance strategy, and were firmly rooted in the economic and
institutional realities of Ethiopia at that time. The project addressed a serious constraint in raising crop
productivity; i.e., the country's weak capacity to produce and multiply improved seeds or planting
materials, a concern reiterated during a meeting in October 1994 of the international agricultural research
centers with the World Bank. The project design reflected lessons leamed from other countries that had
implemented informal and formal seed multiplication schemes. With regard to the informal sector, the
project supported the development of traditional systems of seed multiplication and marketing with minimal
government intervention and decentralizing extension services. For the formal sector, it supported major
institutional reforms of the ESE and policies and measures to encourage the development of a broad-based
competitive seed industry. The design also accounted for the country's limited implementation capacity by
proposing a realistic plan to develop institutions and human resources over time. The design was also
consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies. To comply with OP 4.09 on pest management, the only
safeguard issue that applied to the project, the project included a negative list of pesticides that could not be
used and guidelines for the use of biocides and provided for the training of extension staff and farmers on
the safe handling and use pesticides.



The staff appraisal report described the country context and sector background well, and realistically
appraised the risks the project would face. In particular, it recognized that creating a viable private sector
where none had existed before would take at least five years, so presented the project as the first phase of a
long-term program lasting 15 to 20 years. Credit effectiveness conditions included the appointment of all
key staff in the newly created NSIA; establishing an accounting system satisfactory to IDA, preparing a
work program for the first project year, covering procurement, technical assistance and training; and the
ESE submitting to IDA an acceptable restructuring plan and a business plan for the first project year were
appropriate, given the need to strengthen the country's implementation capacity and the need to restructure
the ESE from a supply-oriented parastatal to a market-oriented commercial enterprise if the project were to
succeed. A detailed project implementation plan acceptable to IDA had been prepared prior to project
launch. Finally, the project design benefited substantially from the advice of donors who participated in
meetings and workshops on agricultural issues in general and the project in particular. The task-team
leader served as the chairman of the donors' subgroup on agriculture. The Bank's Quality Assessment
Group did not assess the project's quality at entry.
While some elements of the projects were well developed, others were not adequately prepared with detail
until after the project was under implementation. Agreement on monitoring indicators was left until the
project launch workshop, which made tracking project implementation progress difficult. There was an
over estimation of costs at appraisal resulting in the cancellation of US $ 4.8 million from the IDA credit.
The methodology for estimating the economic rate of return of the project suggests a possible
misunderstanding of the institutional nature of the project and the long time frame needed to realize returns.
The estimates were unrealistically high.
Despite the overestimates of both project costs and rates of return, the technical design of the project was
sound and its readiness for implementation was adequate. The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
Key elements of the foundation for a competitive seed industry include: (i) institutional capacity for
regulation and enforcement of quality standards; (ii) formal and informal sectors able to respond to
demands of clients, both in the extension service and on the market more generally; and (iii) knowledge on
the part of farmers about improved seeds and ability to access them. The project has been successful in
establishing these. The volume of transactions in seed markets is at present low due to a number of factors.
The recurrent drought has depressed purchasing power. The linkage between extension and credit stifled
the development of the retail input sector. With the expected recovery from drought and a redefinition of the
extension mandate, there will be more scope for transactions in seed and for markets to develop. The
foundation for competitive markets has been put in place under this project. Had it not been, that
investment would have to begin now in order to realize the vision the Government has articulated under the
PRSP, the CAS process, and the rural development strategy.
The project contributed to laying the foundation for a broad-based seed industry by supporting the
development of the FBSPMS, by assisting the ESE to become more commercially oriented and to create
private sector capacity through its outgrower program, and by helping to upgrade the capacity of the
enterprise and government officials at the central and regional levels through training and technical
assistance. Production of seeds under the FBSPMS rose from 1,100 tons in 1997 (the second year of
implementation of the subcomponent) to 47,000 in 2001, exceeding the target by 21 percent. This was a
I - 6 -



major achievement (see Annex 8 for details). The increased production of seeds with other factors
contributed to a near doubling in cereal production from 6.5 million tons in 1995 to over 12 million tons in
2001. Over 54,000 farmers participated in the scheme during its six years, 35 percent more than the
40,000 target specified in the implementation plan for the component. Total area devoted to seed
cultivation grew to over 25,000 hectares, 70 percent more than was envisaged prior to the launch of the
program.
Farmers participating in the program benefited from the income they received from selling their seed crops
to the regional agricultural bureaus. On the standard NEIP plot of 0.5 hectare, farmers could earn ETB
300 more for tef and ETB 500 more for wheat under the scheme. Actual incomes varied widely because
the farmers' plot sizes varied significantly, and farmers did not sell all their output. The scheme also saved
the government money. Seed procured locally for NEIP from farmers participating in the FBSPMS cost
considerably less to produce and transport to users than seed shipped from the ESE seed multiplication and
processing centers. Based on average delivery costs by region, the savings are estimated at about ETB
1.66 million over project years.
Finally, the FBSPMS created widespread awareness among farmers in 160 woredas in seven regions of the
value of quality seed and how to produce it. Over 16,000 farmers participated in training courses on seed
production technology. This widespread knowledge is expected to provide longer term benefits to
participants who continue to apply their knowledge.
The scheme suffered from several significant weaknesses. First, rather than purchasing most of the
farmers' output of seeds for use by NEIP, the regional agricultural bureaus purchased only 30 percent of
the output. Moreover, only 42 percent of output can be identified with certainty as having been used for
seed, according to survey data from the NSIA. Farmers may have sold more for use as seed, but no
evidence exists that this was the case. The 2001 field survey of FBSPMS participants conducted by the
NSIA shows that farner-to-farmer exchanges of seed fell from 18 percent of seed produced in 1997/98 to 9
percent of seed produced in 2000/01. This suggests that farmers were able to meet their needs for varieties
currently available through other sources or that farmers are concemed about the quality of seeds produced
under the FBSPMS.
Second, the varieties produced by seed farmers and those requested by participants in NEIP the following
year did not match well. Third, contrary to expectations that participants would receive and produce seeds
of a large variety of crops, cereals accounted for 96 percent of seeds produced, with pulses and potatoes
making up 2 percent each, oilseeds comprising 1 percent, and vegetables and forage crops accounting for
the rest.
The question remains whether the FBSPMS was as effective as the infornal sector seed multiplication it
replaced would have been in meeting the objectives of making seeds of improved varieties widely available
to farmers in remote areas. No counterfactual exists that would enable analysts to judge the relative
efficacy of the two approaches.
The ESE also produced significant quantities of seed for improved varieties under the project. In the final
years of the project, supply when combined with seeds produced by other actors exceeded demand (see
Annex 9 for details). The project helped the ESE restructure from a centrally-controlled enterprise to a
decentralized operation, although implementation of the reforns has been slow. The basic seed farms were
merged with the local seed processing centers at the begining of the 2001/2002 financial year to create
three integrated cost centers (the basic seed multiplication and processing centers). Management
information systems have been upgraded. The ESE is also more commercially-oriented than in the past.
- 7-



Except for 1996/97 (when operations were severely affected by weather patterns), the ESE has been
profitable each year of the project (Annex 9 Table 2). Net profits before taxes rose from some ETB 5
million (about US$750,000) in 1995/96 to almost ETB 12 million (about US$1.4 million) at the peak in
1999/2000. However, operating costs have been exceeding revenues for nearly two years, as sales have
fallen.
Finally, the project assisted in strengthening institutions for seed production and marketing through
technical assistance and training. With project support the government implemented procedures and
established facilities for seed quality control, supported through the enactment of the seed law and
regulations and the establishment of seed standards. Mini laboratories for testing seeds are operating at all
regional centers, backed up by a sophisticated laboratory established at headquarters. The NSIA will soon
launch a seed certification program.
The performance indicators listed in Annex I show a solid record of accomplishment under the project,
although less than projected at appraisal.
For the reasons elaborated above, achievement of the broad objectives of the project is satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Seed Enterprise Development (US$17.2 million)
Informal Sector Farner-Based Seed Production and Marketing Scheme
Outputs of the FBSPMS were satisfactory. See Annex for details of the scheme.
The FBSPMS was initiated in 1997/98 (project year two) in the four main agricultural regions and was
later expanded to Harar, Gambela and Benishangul. A total of about 160 woredas participated in the
scheme (see map in Annex 7). The scheme produced over 47,000 tons of improved seed, 21 percent more
than the original target of 39,000 tons. Wheat (76 percent) and tef (14 percent) accounted for most of the
seed produced under the program. Up to and including 2000/01, an estimated 11,800 tons of seed had been
purchased for inclusion in input packages distributed by NEIP, about 30 percent of total output. Little or
none has been purchased since. Farm surveys indicate that seed saved for own farm use accounted for 5
percent of output, and seed exchanged with other farmers as planting seed accounted for another 10
percent.
Thus, it is estimated that some 27,000 tons (or 58 percent) of certified seed, grown from basic seed
provided by the ESE, has been directly consumed rather than used as planting material. In the last year of
the scheme, the number of farmers participating fell to 8,800 and the quantity of seed produced fell to
9,200 tons. Purchases of seed from farmers were negligible. In some regions, credit recovery rates
slumped from 85 percent in the early years to 10 percent in project year four and to virtually nothing in
project year six as cereal prices declined.
Six seed cleaners capable of processing four tons per hour and 25 mobile seed cleaners capable of
processing two tons per hour were distributed among the regions to process seed produced by smallholders.
The machinery is not fully mobile in Ethiopian conditions and has often not been housed. Poor utilization
of available capacity has been reported, ranging from 17 percent in Oromiya to 3 percent in Tigray. The
machines were barely been used in 2002.
-8 -



A significant achievement of the FBSPMS is that it built local capacity for seed production. Nearly 2,100
local subject matter specialists and development assistants and over 16,000 farmers received practical
training in seed production. Selected field trainers, and staff of zonal offices and regional agricultural
bureaus also benefited from overseas training and study tours in seed production, processing, and related
topics. Woreda agricultural staff, who received field allowances and access to project-supplied
motorcycles through the project, participated enthusiastically in the scheme, as is shown by the impressive
levels of output.
Despite positive aspects, the scheme suffered from significant shortcomings. For example:
o  Seed supply often exceeded local requirements (including those of the extension program) and the
capacity of the regional agricultural bureaus to collect, process and purchase the output. As a result
valuable basic seed served as food rather than planting material.
O  Farmers did not always receive training prior to participating in the program, so produced seed less
efficiently than would otherwise have been the case.
O  Seed cleaning has cost much more than necessary because seed cleaning equipment was inappropriate
for the needs. Moreover, mechanics and machinery operators did not receive training until project year
four.
o  Sustainability is doubtful because of the program's dependence on government finance and assistance
and its lack of commercial orientation.
Formal sector-Ethiopia Seed Enterprise
The Project Agreement required the ESE to restructure and become more commercially oriented while
maintaining a positive gross profit margin. The ESE's five seed multiplication and processing centers
began in 2000 to operate with some autonomy in planning, selecting outgrowers, and selling its output.
Since mid-2001, three processing centers have been managed jointly with neighboring basic seed farms,
creating integrated cost centers. Extension and marketing staff are assigned to each seed processing center
to encourage farmers to adopt new and improved varieties. Marketing and extension functions have also
been restructured at headquarters. The board in April 2001 approved a new structure for the ESE. Three
new seed multiplication and processing centers are planned along with five new branch offices and 21 retail
outlets.
The ESE is still in the process of restructuring itself, well after the timetable specified in the staff appraisal
report (SAR). Delays in completing various studies on marketing, organization, and management are
partly to blame. But, the ESE also had little incentive to develop its marketing capacity as long as NEIP
provided a ready outlet for its output (NEIP purchased 80 percent of improved seeds produced during the
project life). The ESE took steps to restructure and to develop a marketing strategy only towards the end
of the project.
The ESE's training program (financed through the subsidiary loan) was initiated in 1998. Most local
training in management skills, machinery maintenance, and seed processing took place in 2000. Overseas
training covered seed technology and analysis, processing, marketing, and project management. Selected
decision makers participated in study tours to India and China. Training was focused on practical needs,
and efforts were well distributed between headquarters and regional offices.
Processing capacity of the ESE has been upgraded with the full commissioning of the plant at Bahir Dar (in
the north), rehabilitation of four other plants (including provision of new seed processing machinery at
-9-



Awassa), all at a fraction of the costs estimated in the SAR. In addition, two stores with a capacity of
2,000 tons have been constructed. A mobile seed cleaner, trucks, and other vehicles have been procured.
With the exception of 1996/97 (when output declined significantly because of El Niio), the ESE has been
profitable each year of the project. However, at the end of the project the ESE appears to be in a vulnerable
position. It has large carryover stocks, its operating costs have exceeded its revenues during the past two
years, its sales network is not firmly established, and its major institutional clients, the regional agricultural
bureaus that implement the NEIP have slashed their demand for seeds. To minimize losses, the ESE
decided not to contract outgrowers to produce maize seeds during 2002.
Basic seed production did not increase under the project. Plans to develop the basic seed farm in the north
were abandoned because the cost of irrigation proved too high and the danger of infestation with the
noxious weed, striga, too great.
In 2001, the ESE was transferred to operate under the authority of the Ministry of Rural Development.
Formal sector-Encouraging private sector entry in the seed business
The output of this subcomponent is rated as unsatisfactory. At the start of the project only one private
company, a branch of the multinational frm Pioneer, produced seed in Ethiopia. This was still true at the
end of the project, even though EARO is willing to provide breeder and basic seed to private farmers and
farmers are permitted to import seed.
The local company imports parent lines from Zimbabwe and produces its own hybrid lines for sale locally.
Its sales peaked in 1999 at 1,450 tons of seed, marketed mainly through regional agricultural bureaus
(clients of the extension program may take the company's lines instead of ESE's and many do, even though
they cost more). The company's lines are included in trials by EARO and in local demonstrations,
previously through Sasakawa Global 2000, and currently through woreda-level demonstrations. As with
the ESE, the company's sales fell sharply in 2002.
Attracting private operators in Ethiopia to produce and distribute seeds has proved difficult, despite the
government's willingness to lease land to seed producers and its enactment of an investment code that sets a
framework for the establishment of commercial seed producers. One explanation for the lack of private
sector interest is that potential customers are able to obtain all the seeds and planting materials they need on
credit through the NEIP. The low purchasing power of most smalUholders is also a factor. Under such
conditions, establishing a production and distribution chain is apparently too risky to attract private actors.
The number of outgrowers (both state farms and private enterprises) and the scale of their operations
fluctuated widely over the life of the project. In 2001, 26 outgrowers were producing seeds on some 1,700
hectares, but no contracts were planned for 2002. About two-thirds of the area cultivated by outgrowers
was devoted to hybrid maize, 30 percent was under wheat, 6 percent was for tef, and the remainder was
given to pulses. Growing hybrid maize with irrigation appears to be the most profitable activity. The
potential for outgrowers to graduate to producing and marketing their own seed is constrained by a lack of
capital (banks require private farmers to provide substantial collateral from nonagricultural sources), the
shortage of distribution channels, and the lack of reliable market information in the country. Further, input
credit is handled exclusively through the extension services and cooperatives at the exclusion of private
seed producers, the same issue that has bedeviled the fertilizer input.
Some capacity has been built in the private sector as a result of training, promotions, study tours, and
- 10 -



workshops. Inviting private farmers to attend the annual seed workshops and private seed enterprise
development workshops has helped stimulate their interest in seed production. Another plus was the
appointment in 1998 of a private sector representative to sit on the NRVC. The establishment of the
Ethiopian Seed Growers Association with 14 registered members is a result of this interest.
Component 2: Capacity Building
Institutional strengthening
Ethiopia now has an institutional foundation where the private sector can expand (although from a small
base at present). A regulatory framework has been established through the seed proclamnation 206/2000 of
June 2000, and seed standards have been determined by the Ethiopian Standard Authority. The NVRC has
streamlined procedures to speed the flow of new planting materials to farmers. A national seed testing
laboratory has been established at the NSIA headquarters, staff have been trained, and operational
protocols have been developed. A summary of achievement under each category is presented below.
National Seed Industry Agency. Established in 1993 during project preparation, the NSIA has a broad
mandate covering all aspects of the seed industry, ranging from developing seed regulations and standards,
ensuring that adequate seed reserves are maintained for emergencies, and generally fostering and promoting
the development of the seed industry. Until the project became effective in mid-1996, the NSIA had a small
staff and little capacity. The NSLA now employs over 60 people at its headquarters in Addis Ababa. Its
board approved a new structure in December 2001 that is expected to facilitate its growth to a planned
staff of 104. The new structure also includes eight or nine branch offices to be established throughout the
country, that will deal mainly with certification, regulatory and control measures. The project helped build
capacity of the NSIA by providing it with 13 vehicles (five of which were delivered in project year five), 37
computers, some office furniture, equipment for training, and a generator. A management information
system had yet to be fully commissioned at the project's closing.
The national seed testing laboratory at the headquarters of NSIA is well-equipped, employs some
laboratory staff who have been trained overseas, and will soon have an electronic database. The laboratory
has the capacity to test 3,000 samples per year, and currently tests 1,500-1,900 samples per year. It has
yet to commission most of the new equipment that arrived in 2000 due to problems with electricity
supplies. When the new equipment is installed, the laboratory will have the capacity to test 5,000 samples
per year (equivalent to 100,000 tons of seed per year); this is much more capacity than is currently needed.
Three teams for laboratory, field inspection, and seed quality certification have been established. All teams
have substantially fewer staff than planned (eight out of a planned 18). Inspection procedures for hybrid,
open-pollinated and self-pollinated crops have been established. A forrnal seed certification system was
initiated in 2002, starting with wheat and hybrid maize. The NSLA issued certificates of competence
assurance to 13 seed growers in 2002 (including one to the ESE), indicating their technical competence in
seed production.
Breeding and variety release and quarantine services. This subcomponent was also expected to help
improve the quality and quantity of breeder seed by providing formal training in seed technology, and by
supplying additional seed processing equipment and seed storage facilities at nine research centers
(including eight now managed by EARO and the Alemaya University of Agriculture). The NSIA provided
training in seed technology during the early years of project implementation. However, most seed stores
and processing equipment were not built or procured until near the end of project implementation and many
have yet to be commissioned or fully utilized, due to problems with the designs, specifications, or other
factors. The quantity of breeder seed (mainly maize) released from EARO to the ESE has increased since
- 1 1 -



the project became effective. However, this is primarily because EARO must now produce a greater
quantity of breeder seed before it can apply for varietal release.
The project provided minor support to the NVRC by bearing the operational expenses of the committee.
This has helped the NVRC to streamline procedures to speed the flow of new planting materials to farmers
and to publish and distribute the annual crop variety register.
The project also provided the plant quarantine service with one vehicle and training for five staff.
However, the quarantine procedures and guidelines remain in draft form, and much more remains to be
done to adequately strengthen arrangements for plant quarantine.
Institute for Biodiversity Conservation and Research. The IBCR created in 1998 from the former Plant
Genetics Resource Center is responsible for the conservation and sustainable use of all Ethiopian
biodiversity. It also serves as the regional coordinator for the African genetic resources network, and
supplies breeding programs throughout the world with gerrnplasm from its accession collection, which now
holds more than 100,000 multiplied and characterized samples. The project supported the IBRC with two
vehicles, one tractor and accessories, and computers. The IBRC used them effectively to continue
promoting its farmer-based approach to conservation of genetic resources, once support from the
GEF/UNDP ended in 2000. The IBRC decided not to procure proposed equipment for the storage and
drying rooms, once the World Bank denied its request to procure the equipment from a previous supplier,
as this conflicted with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
National seed reserve stock The study to present options for creating a national seed reserve stock scheme
was completed in November 1998. Building on an earlier FAO study, the Bank-supported study proposed
establishing reserves of some 6,400 tons of seed to be stored in 26 woredas (FAO, Seed Security Reserve
Stock Feasibility Study, July 1994). Designs for six stores were completed in 2000/01. Provisions for
their construction were made through an amendment in February 2001 to the Development Credit
Agreement. No contracts have, however, been signed. Meanwhile, over 4,000 tons of seed have been
procured with project support (mainly from ESE in 1999, 2000, and 2001) for drought-prone areas. The
seed has reportedly been distributed to regional agricultural bureaus and then onwards to drought-affected
areas.
Human resource development
This subcomponent is rated as satisfactory. The subcomponent has, through the widespread distribution of
training opportunities, created awareness of the importance of quality seed and the issues and problems
relating to marketing and distribution. It also developed the capacity of staff at all levels in all participating
institutions.
Overseas training was initially delayed because the government was reluctant to use funds from the credit
for that purpose. This problem was solved in 1998. Thereafter, staff of the NSIA and other institutions
benefited from long-term academic studies; courses in technical and management skills; workshops,
seminars, and meetings covering a variety of topics; and study tours. Particularly important was the
overseas academic training that the project funded for the Faculty of the Alemaya University of
Agriculture. The Faculty have returned to the university, strengthening its undergraduate and graduate
programs. Others outside the university who benefited from academic and practical training overseas are
actively working to disseminate their knowledge by training others through local in-service courses,
particularly in seed technology and seed laboratory practice. The benefits of travel overseas for study tours
and for conferences is more difficult to assess.
- 12 -



The subcomponent supported frequent local training courses that were well attended. These have covered
topics such as seed technology, seed quality control, management and training skills, national seed reserve
stocks scheme and strategy, and maintenance of seed cleaning machines. Finally, the subcomponent
supported workshops throughout the years of project implementation. The most important have been the
five annual seed workshops, which were well-attended by participants from government entities, the private
sector, and NGOs. These workshops were designed to assess the progress of the project, review current
programs, disseminate information on other seed-related programs, and to plan future activities. A series
of study tours enabled regional agricultural bureau staff to visit other regions to assess and share
experiences of the project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR projected the economic rate of return for the project to be 36 percent over 15 years from
incremental increases in agricultural production due to the increased availability and use of improved seeds.
Because the project objectives were largely of an institutional nature ("laying the foundation for a
competitive seed industry"), the methodology used for the economic analysis is of questionable relevance.
The benefits in the economic rate of return calculation of the SAR bear little direct relationship to the
investments contemplated by the project (new basic seed farn for ESE, new seed processing plant at Bahir
Dar, but limited rehabilitation elsewhere). And the valuation of cereals produced to reduce a food deficit in
the less productive parts of the country, normally met by food aid, is problematic. The revised economic
evaluation of the project is now estimated to be negative over the life of the project (although possibly
positive over the longer time frame) based on the following assessments (see Annex 3):
o   The FBSPMS is responsible for a large proportion of changes in seed production under the project
o   Use of seed of early generations of improved varieties has not increased under the project (the project
has not had any measurable impact on the production of basic seed from which such increases might
have been generated). Rather, it is the distribution of such seed that has changed.
O   The quality/yield potential of improved varieties available over the project life has not changed under
the project.
o The purity and grading of seed have improved because ESE's processing facilities have improved.
However, improvements are likely to have been marginal and there is no basis to compare the quality
of certified seed produced by the FBSPMS and that previously produced by the ESE.
o The main verifiable economic benefits related to seed supply are associated with changes in the costs of
transportation and processing.
O   Technical support provided under the FBSPMS may have raised the productivity of participants in the
scheme above levels previously attained under NEIP, and the introduction of the FBSPMS with
additional funding may have resulted in expansion of the NEIP/FBSPMS program itself.
Savings in transport costs to date for the FBSPMS are estimated to be ETB 1.66 million. Incremental
production attributable to the FBSPMS is estimated to be between 3,200 tons (increased yield only), and
24,000 tons of tef, wheat and minor crops through expansion of the area covered by NEIP. Valuing wheat
at the average price on local markets of food aid wheat (about ETB 1,500 per ton or US$175 per ton), and
tef at average local market prices (about ETB 2,000 per ton or US$230 per ton) gives a total gross value of
between ET3 5 and 36 million. Total project costs are estimated at ETB 154 million, of which the
FBSPMS accounted for about ETB 47 million. These calculations suggest that the FBSPMS has not yet
yielded sufficient benefits to cover its own costs. This is largely because of the high cost of the seed
processing equipment (approximately ETB 19 million). Had more appropriate machinery been used and
- 13 -



had it proved possible to ensure that the first generation seed from the scheme was used predominantly for
planting, then the FBSPMS would have generated positive economic returns.
At the same time, qualitative benefits of the project realized through training and institutional reform are
not well captured by a narrow estimate of ERR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR estimated the financial rate of return for the investments proposed by the project for the ESE to
be about 8 percent on the loan of ETB 20.9 million that was lent to the ESE from the Ministry of Finance.
The number of discrete investments made and the difficulty of estimating detailed costs and revenues for
each makes it impossible to calculate a revised financial rate of return.
The financial rate of return presented in the SAR was based on the assumption that the loan would enable
the ESE to maintain its sales of seed, while, without the loan, revenue would fall by more than half over the
life of the project. Cash for repaying the loan was to be generated by decreasing inventories and accounts
receivable. In fact, by 2000/01, the ESE had increased sales revenue by nearly 50 percent compared with
1995/96 (ETB 50 million) by increasing sales of hybrid maize, and had made larger profits than
anticipated. This cannot however be directly attributed to the project investments. Accounts receivable are
still high (ETB 42 million or about US$5 million at the end of 2000/01), inventories have risen sharply, and
operating costs have exceeded sales revenues over the last two years. Moreover, although the ESE earned
substantial profits in the earlier years, it has not repaid its loan principal and interest in regular installments
as agreed.
The SAR estimated ratios of farm level value to cost due to use of improved seed without varying other
inputs to range from a maximum of 12 for sorghum to a minimum of 2.3 for barley. These ratios were
above the threshold value of two, which is generally accepted as the minimum below which farmers will not
consider using improved technology. In fact, seed of improved varieties, which is the only type sold by the
ESE or multiplied under the FBSPMS, will not increase yields without application of fertilizer. Crop
budgets indicate that, although farmers enjoyed increased yields with the NEIP package as compared with
conventional practices, they received only small increases in net cash returns for both wheat and tef
compared with the increased costs of the package (see Annex 8). Cash returns to labor is at about ETB 18
per person day for wheat and ETB 11 per person day. It is only when farmers are able to sell a significant
proportion of their output at a premium price (for seed produced under the FBSPMS) that returns to labor
rise (up to ETB 28 per person day for wheat and ETB 17 per person for tef). Costs of seed production are
estimated at about ETB 0.85 per kilogram for wheat and ETB 1.33 per kilogram for tef.
4.5 Institutional development impact
Institutional development is rated as satisfactory. Ethiopia now has an institutional foundation where the
private sector can expand. With support from the project, the NSIA has been fully institutionalized. A
regulatory framework has been established through the seed proclamation 206/2000 of June 2000, and seed
standards have been determined by the Ethiopian Standards Authority. The NVRC, with a full-time
secretary within the NSIA, has streamlined procedures to speed the flow of new planting materials to
farmers. A national seed testing laboratory has been established at the NSIA headquarters, staff have been
trained, and operational protocols have been developed. A formal certification process (initially for hybrid
maize and wheat) to be operated by the NSIA is planned for 2002. Preliminary studies and designs have
been prepared with a view to establishing local seed reserves for emergencies.
- 14 -



However, the roles of the key entities involved in seed production need to be clarified. Currently, the roles
attributed by law to the NSIA, the EBCR, and EARO to conserve and develop landraces appear in places to
be overlapping. In practice, the NSIA should concentrate mainly on promoting improved varieties, leaving
the IBCR to conduct independent programs to encourage use of local varieties.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The influence of outside factors on project outcomes has been significant The conflict with Eritrea during
1998-99 had an overall impact on the economy and no project in the portfolio was immune. More
specifically, it left machinery and parts, laboratory equipment, and other goods stranded at the port of
Assab. The equipment had to be reordered, increasing the costs incurred for the items. Adverse rainfall
pattems (1996, 2000) reduced the potential for improved seed production. By contrast, very good rainfall
and growing conditions in 2001 resulted in high cereal output, which depressed grain prices and
consequently the demand for improved seed.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The influence of factors within government's control on project outcomes has been substantial. The
decision of the government to substitute the FBSPMS for the informal secondary seed multiplication
scheme resulted in a missed opportunity to develop altemative systems of informal smallholder seed
exchange that may have been more sustainable than the approach adopted. The decision to cut the
proposed salary levels of project staff by 50 percent led to high turnover of personnel, especially during the
first two years of the project. The government's initial reluctance to finance overseas training delayed the
contributions trainees were able to make to the project. A positive development was the decision of the
government to fund recurrent expenditure from its own resources, which has increased the likely
sustainability of institutional development.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The influence of factors subject to the control of the implementing agency on project outcomes has been
substantial. Delays in restructuring the ESE ensured that the enterprise would remain a major player in
producing seeds, which impeded private sector development. Limited interest of the NSIA hindered efforts
to help develop the capacity of cooperatives and cooperative unions to participate in local seed
multiplication schemes. Also the use of external technical assistance may have led the NSIA to procure
seed cleaning equipment that was more appropriate for field conditions in Ethiopia. Action taken by the
NSIA to facilitate overseas training was important for developing human resources that would contribute to
the future growth of seed production and distribution systems.
5.4 Costs and financing.
The SAR estimated total project costs (including contingencies) to be US$3 1.0 million over five years.
Substituting the FBSPMS for the informal secondary seed multiplication scheme raised the estimnated cost
of that subcomponent by US$9 million, and increased the total estimated project cost to US$40.0 million.
The actual project cost over six years totaled about US$20.5 million (US$15.0 million for the NSIA and
US$5.5 million for the ESE (the ESE total project costs have been estimated from the financing
percentages presented in the Development Credit Agreement).
The IDA allocation which is for 15.2 million SDR at appraisal was equivalent to US$21.1 million. With
the strengthening of the US Dollar over time, the amount of the allocation was reduced to US$20.6 million.
Disbursements from the IDA credit total US$11.8 million. About US$ 4.8 million was cancelled midway
through (in February 2001). The residual funds of US$4.0 million was cancelled upon closing. One major
reason was the govemment's decision to substitute own funds for project money to cover operating costs
- 15-



(including payments to project staff originally budgeted under the technical assistance subcomponent of the
capacity building component).
Disbursements under the IFAD loan for the FBSPMS total US$2.5 million of which approximately US$1.2
million was for shared payment with IDA for seed cleaners and threshers, about US$0.8 million was for
fertilizer, and about US$0.5 million was for sacks.
Major deviations from planned project total financing arose because:
* No foreign technical assistants were engaged.
* Planned civil works were not constructed at ESE's basic seed farm at Kunzila.
* The 12 mini laboratories planned for the NSIA and the six stores planned for the national seed reserve
as agreed under the February 2001 amendment to the Development Credit Agreement were not
constructed.
* Rehabilitation work at ESE's processing centers included more equipment than planned, but the work
still cost significantly less than was estimated in the SAR.
As of July 2001, counterpart funds were estimated to total ETB 28.5 million, or just over US$3.6 million
for the activities executed by the NSIA, and some US$2.63 million for the activities carried out by the
ESE. Total counterpart contributions from the government for the NSIA-executed activities are expected
over the project life to equal or exceed the US$4.1 million equivalent estimated in the SAR.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The NSIA is now well-equipped to perform its role to oversee all aspects of seed production and
distribution systems. Early on, the government decided to finance all recurring costs, a welcome
development as it contributes to sustainability. Provided it continues to receive budgetary allocations, it will
be able to build its information systems and play an important role in formulating policy. However,
establishing eight or more regional centers will stretch its capacity, especially if the ESE takes over the
management of smallholder seed growing schemes from the FBSPMS. The NVRC is expected to continue
operating satisfactorily. The Alemaya University will continue to benefit from the expertise developed
through overseas training and from its new laboratory facilities. Several of the measures that the project
supported, such as the management information systems, training, and upgrading of capacity for
processing, storing, and transporting seeds are likely to have a lasting impact.
The participatory processes with all stakeholders established under the project is functional. The annual
seed workshops and quarterly meetings of stakeholders are likely to continue once the project closes. All
policy reforms agreed to during project preparation have been carried out, including the removal of seed
subsidies and the deregulation of seed prices.
Details of how the smallholder seed multiplication will be sustained in the future are still being worked out
by the NSIA and government. The FBSPMS is however unlikely to continue in its present form because:
* The FBSPMS sells nearly all its seed output to the regional agricultural bureaus that purchase the
seeds for NElP. Poor credit repayments in 2001 by the FBSPMS and NEIP, and continued low grain
prices that discourage farmers from investing in production inputs, will reduce demand for the seed
produced through the FBSPMS in 2002.
- 16-



o   Regional agricultural bureaus report that, following very poor seed sales in project years five and six,
and the resulting loss of expected price premiums for their output, seed multipliers may not continue
producing seeds.
o   Regional agricultural bureaus and the ESE are now expected to take responsibility for smallholder seed
multiplication, and they have yet to decide whether or not to continue in 2002 with the FBSPMS
program.
o Changes in budgeting, to be introduced in the forthcoming financial year, will give woredas more
autonomy to plan and manage their agricultural programs, including the production and procurement of
seed.
NSIA will therefore, need to develop comprehensive plans to continue support to develop srnallholder seed
multiplication systems.
Looking ahead, the sustainability of benefits can be assured if the government builds on what has been
achieved under the project. Of great importance is to do more to promote the development of private
producers and distributors of seeds and cultivars who can meet the diverse needs of farmers working in a
wide range of agroecological settings. The government has committed in the PRSP to change the mandate
and function of the extension and to make more space for activities of the private sector in this regard.
Moreover, too little is currently known about what farmers actually want and are willing to pay for.
Therefore, the supply of seeds now far exceeds demand, and much stocks is left unsold. To address these
issues, the government intends to progressively reduce the role of the regional governments in supplying
inputs, providing space for private dealers to establish networks. More generally, marketing constraints will
have to be addressed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition arrangements to regular operations were not finalized at the time the project was closing. The
ESE had still not decided how to develop its smallholder contract growing scheme. It is expected that ESE
extension workers will take the lead in organizing groups of farmers into blocks of five hectares and larger
to multiply seeds. Initially, farmers will produce seeds of durum wheat, tef, oilseeds, and pulses.
Responsibility for multiplying bread wheat seed (the dominant seed crop of the FBSPMS) and other crops
will rest with the regional agricultural bureaus. They are expected to finance their programs with funds
generated through the repayment of loans extended to farmers through the FBSPMS. However, due to the
collapse of grain prices and uncertainty about the future of NEIP, the regional agricultural bureaus had not
prepared plans in 2002 to take over these responsibilities.
Decisions on how to deploy seed processing equipment that was provided to regional agricultural bureaus
and cooperatives under the FBSPMS had not been made at the time the project was closing. Nor had a
decision been made on where to assign 22 pick-up trucks that were delivered to the NSIA at the end of
2001.
In the meantime, NSIA will review and, if warranted, reduce control of the private introduction of new
cultivars, review the variety registration procedures, and set realistic standards to encourage new private
seed companies to enter the business of producing and distributing seeds. It will also seek ways to maintain
local capacity for producing seeds developed under the FBSPMS. It established a new agency (the
- 17 -



National Agricultural Inputs Authority) in July 2002 to better coordinate the key activities of producing
and distributing agricultural inputs.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was designed in accordance with Ethiopia's development strategy and priorities and with the
Bank's country assistance strategy. Appropriately, given the transition the government was going through,
the Bank and the government held intensive discussions on how the project could support the government's
efforts to liberalize the economy in general and the agricultural sector in particular. The agreed design
supported the transition, helping to realign the seed production system with the realities and needs of
operating in a market economy. The Bank's performance in preparation was satisfactory in technical
dimensions, but flawed in costing of the project and projection of the likely benefits. While some elements
of the project were well-developed, others were not. The Ethiopia Seed Enterprise subcomponent was not
adequately prepared, with details on restructuring and other issues addressed after the project was under
implementation. The Bank team also significantly overestimated the costs of some activities, which
resulted in the cancellation of a portion of the credit. The Government's intentions with regard to the scope
and time frame for the restructuring of the ESE shoud have been clarified during preparation, rather than
implementation. In the end, many of the agreed steps, such as restructuring the ESE came much later in the
project than agreed. As noted above, the quality at entry was on balance satisfactory, but a number of
issues were left to be addressed during implementation, putting a substantial demand on the Bank's
performance during supervision.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank fielded eight supervision missions during the project's six years of implementation. Missions
were regular and lasted about two weeks each. Starting in 1999, supervision missions typically comprised
seven or more members, including foreign and local consultants, investigating a wide range of technical and
operational issues. With few exceptions, supervision missions focused more on monitoring compliance
with agreements specified in the SAR and the Development Credit Agreement than on appraising farm
economics or financial and business performance of new seed enterprises. Increasingly limited supervision
budgets partly account for the relatively narrow focus of the supervision missions. Some missions did
however recommend that studies on three topics: a seed marketing strategy and an action plan, a seed
reserve scheme, and private sector involvement in seed production, be carried out. The project
subsequently funded and commissioned them. Although the Bank team insisted that a study on the
effectiveness of the FBSMPS be carried out, it accepted the government's proposal to substitute this
approach for the original secondary seed multiplication system despite doubts on whether the switch was
wise. Staff of the resident mission provided support for the project throughout implementation.
Communications with IFAD were good during supervision; IFAD participated in two joint missions.
The project was rated unsatisfactory at times during implementation. The project included a mid-term
review, which resulted in improved compliance with agreements laid out in the SAR and faster
disbursement. Ratings improved as implementation progressed and the project was rated satisfactory
during its final years.
The overly technical nature of the supervision effort resulted in a lost opportunity to look at the deeper
structural issues in the evolving seed sector, and to point out the problems emerging fiom the linkage
between input supply, credit, and the extension service.
- 18 -



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
In lending activities the Bank worked closely with the transitional government to formulate a project that
would meet the government's desire to develop its seed industry with private sector involvement and to
promote a smallholder seed multiplication system that would make improved seeds and cultivars more
available to farmers in remote areas. The Bank team performed less well in preparing and appraising the
project. Detailed preparation of some components was left until project implementation. During
implementation, supervision was weak at times. The Bank team accepted the government's proposed
substitution of the FBSPMS, despite its strong views that the flexibility and cost effectiveness of the
secondary seed multiplication scheme would be lost. It also failed to ensure that the specifications for the
seed processing equipment were appropriate for the needs. Although some of the issues of concem were
exogenous to the project, the Bank was too slow to respond to these emerging issues. An important issue
relates to a massive increase in the extension program which transferred the distribution of inputs and
credit to the government thereby affecting the growth of a competitive seed production and marketing
system.
The Bank's overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The government worked closely with the
Bank team during a difficult transition period to develop a common vision and approach and to formulate
strategies and identify actions to realize the vision. During preparation it demonstrated its commitment to
the project by developing its national seed policy and strategy, establishing the NSIA, and initiating the
restructuring of the ESE.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The borrower's perfonnance in implemnentation was mixed. The government did not maintain its
commitment to the orginal informal secondary seed multiplication scheme, substituting the very different
FBSPMS early during implementation. While switching approaches sometimes makes sense, government
made this change without fully understanding the risks posed by rapidly expanding an untested approach
and relying on the single market outlet provided by NEIP. The decision to cut by 50 percent the proposed
salary for project staff led to high turnover of personnel affecting project implementation. There was initial
reluctance to finance overseas training. Moreover, the government paid too little attention to the issues of
sustainability. At the project's close in 2002 regional agricultural bureaus were not prepared to continue
the program. The appointment of the general manager of the NSIA as chairman of the board of the ESE
diminished the standing of NSIA as an independent regulatory body.
Nevertheless, the regional agricultural bureaus and regional governments have demonstrated their
commitment to the program, supporting the involvement of many more farmers than originally planned.
Government provided more counterpart funding than initially planned.
- 19 -



7.6 Implemenung Agency:
During the first two years of project implementation, the NSIA allowed changes to agreements to be made,
partly because of ongoing changes in ministerial responsibilities due to the transition in government, and
partly to weaknesses in staff. Starting in the third year of implementation, the NSLA took steps to speed
implementation and disbursement. The content and extent of the training program was significantly
improved. Monitoring and evaluation of project outputs and impacts was been weak, at least in part
because the NSIA did not appoint a management information and reporting officer, as agreed in the
Development Credit Agreement. The failure to computerize records and to develop the associated skills
until the fourth year of implementation also hindered project administration and monitoring. Project
implementation also suffered from the failure of the NSIA to replace the project coordinator when he left m
mid-2000, a reasonable decision at the time because the project was expected to run only another six
months. The project however ran another two years.
The NSIA prepared a midterm review, providing factual infornation on implementation progress.
Itsimplementation completion report however did not provide the necessary information for evaluating
project performance.
With the ESE, implementation was slow until a project coordinator was appointed in mid-1998. The
enterprise did not complete its planned restructuring until near the end of the project.
Neither the NSIA nor the ESE adequately arranged for the transition away from project support. Financial
and procurement management by the NSIA and the ESE was satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
The govenmment demonstrated its commitment to the broad objectives of the project, if not its approach,
from preparation to completion, providing more than its agreed level of counterpart funds. The NSIA
successfully administered the project, and coordinated the activities of the various institutions participating
in the project. It also carried out the agreed studies and implemented the training program, although with
some delays. The ESE also performed marginally satisfactorily, maintaining its profitability until the final
years of project implementation, when crop prices collapsed and a drought eroded farners' confidence in
planting. It failed however to complete its restructuring in a timely manner. Procurement was handled in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Compliance with relevant Bank safeguard policies was satisfactory. On
the other hand borrower fulfilled loan covenants with significant delays. Further, its decision to substitute
the informal secondary seed multiplication system with the FBSPMS raised project costs significantly,
reduced the effectiveness of the subcomponent to reach smallholder farmers in remote areas with improved
seeds and cultivars.
The overall performance of the borrower is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Successfully creating a market-based seed production and distribution system in place of a
centrally-planned system requires the gradual involvement of the private sector. NSIA made very little
effort through this project for true private sector involvement. Seeds were either produced through the ESE
or by farmers under the FBSPMS supported with a guaranteed market. As a result no independent private
- 20 -



farmers were producing seeds at the end of the project.
Seed production should be based on a thorough assessment offarmer demand and marketfor
improved varieties, not justfocusing on supply. The approach pursued in this project resulted in many
seeds being produced at a considerable and expense that were never used for seed.
Substantial changes to the project design should not be made withoutfully analyzing the proposed
design in terms of economic, financial, and social impacts and ensuring that the new approach is
sustainable. The FBSPMS was adopted without a full analysis of its sustainability.
To ensure better implementation, arrangements for monitoring and evaluation need to be in place
before the project starts. Implementation of this project suffered because infonnation on key indicators
was not available during the early years of project implementation.
To ensure continuity and sustainability, planning and initiating transitional arrangements well in
advance ofproject closure (some 18 months) is necessary. Planning for the transition did not start until
near the project's end, and had still not been completed at the time the project closed.
Single factor projects are unlikely to have a major impact on agricultural production. For many
smallholders, seeds are not the primary limiting factor to production, and many other constraints need to be
addressed. A more holistic, farmer-driven approach is more likely to be effective in promoting sustainable
agricultural development than an approach focused on a single input
Government commitment is criticalfor the timelyfinalization ofproject preparation. There was a gap
of three and half years between Appraisal and Board date as the government was hesitant about asking the
Bank for funding.
Assess the impact of an evolving situation and act quickly. The project failed to assess the impact of
rapidly expanding approach which relied on a single market outlet under the national extension intervention
program on the project. It also failed to act decisively in response to these changes.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemennng agency:
(See Annex 12)
(b) Cofinanciers:
IFAD noted the concerns with regard to the long-term sustainability of related investments of the informal
secondary seed multiplication subcomponent or the FBSPMS.
IFAD equally noted that the overall performance of the project, including the performance of the
government and the Bank, has been rated as either marginally satisfactory or unsatisfactory. At the
wrap-up meeting for the ICR mission, which IFAD attended, there were clear disagreements between the
FAO mission and local stakeholders, particularly with regard to the criteria and data being used in
performance rating. The lack of a comprehensive and unassailable database would tend to diminish the
accuracy and reliability of the performance rating and could inadvertently divert debate from more
substantive issues. The lack of data may also explain ambiguities inherent and the difficulties experienced
in calculating the project's economic and financial rates of return.
IFAD would agree with the recommendation that any follow-up project should, in addition to agricultural
- 21 -



inputs supply, embrace a more holistic, fanner driven approach that would include the development and
implementation of national strategies and policies for the marketing of farm produce with a view to
securing the long term profitability of smallholder agriculture within the framework of a liberalized market
economy. To this end, IFAD has had some very preliminary consultations with the Ministries of Finance
and Economic Cooperation and Trade and Industry on the subject of agricultural marketing, and would be
keen to jointly explore further the potential for an investment program in agricultural input supply and
marketing that could be cofinanced by Ban, IFAD etc.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/pfivate sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
*'  'iQtor ' S-  -, t.  i- 'r-' 1 i'i 'If Oi -t'  I 4 WaLuitVkftE,EciMK-
Increased agricultural production  90,000 tons of grains      Impact of project not verifiable
Reduction in food deficit          6%                         Impact of project not verifiable
Employment                        Increased                   Some increase
Yields                             Increased                  Good increase for hybrid maize
Risk alleviation                   Increased                  No positive impact
Household food insecunty/poverty in drought prone areas      Little change
Reduction in transport and marketing costs                   Transport cost reduction ETB 1.66 m
Processing costs high
Women's welfare                    Enhanced                   No impact
t Note: No numerical targets were set for the indicators listed in the SAR. Projections are derived from SAR text and
DCA.
Output Indicators:
Indicator                          Projected in SAR/PAID     'Actual/Latest Estimate
Variety release (time)             Reduced                    Reduced to 3 years
Breeder seed production            Increased: 1992: 370       1997-2001 averages: maize - 3.5 tons,
kilograms cf 1.1 ton required  cereals - 0.9 tons, pulses/oilseeds - 1.8 tons
Breeder seed processing            Improved                   Some increased capacity
Breeder seed storage               More secure                New cold stores generally not yet
commissioned
Basic seed production - ESE        Increased                  Little change
Basic seed farm in north           To be established by ESE   Delay. No irrigated site developed or basic
terms of reference by PY2  seed produced as yet
Basic seed processing/storage      Improved                   Some increased capacity in EARO
Basic seed production - others     1993: 608 hectares         2001/02: 0
Sales of seed by ESE %             0.3% direct to farms in 1994  8% cash sales to farms/coops in 2000/2001
Sales of seed by ESE (t)           Increase from 15,000 tons/yr Average 14 000 t/yr (96/97-2000/01)
Number of private outgrowers       Increase                   26 (2001), 0 (2002)
Area of private outgrowers         Increase (from about 1,000  1 700 ha (2001) of which 1,600 hectares for
hectares in 1994)          ESE (1,000 hectares hybrid maize)
Seed village outgrowers            Proposed                   Minimal development. Proposal now being
developed by ESE
Vegetable seed production          Proposed                   None developed
Processing of commercial seed      Rehabilitation of 4 plants  3 plants rehabilitated as planned, I plant
Installation of plant in north  upgraded (Awassa). Bahir Dar installed
(Bahir Dar). Purchase of I  with delay. Mobile seed cleaner procured.
mobile seed cleaner        All operative
Local production and processing of seed  Feasibility to be examined  Found to be uneconomic
in Tigray, Wollo and Sodo
Custom processing for private sector by  None, regional agricultural
ESE                                bureaus processed
Storage of commercial seed ESE     No addition planned        2 x 2,000 ton stores constructed
Packing                            Smaller than 100 kilogram  Range of packs suitable for areas of 0.25
and 50 kilogram            hectares or less, down to 3 kilogram
available
Supply of appropriate varieties    For different agro-ecological  ESE taking measures to improve fit of
zones                      varieties to demand
- 23 -



Indicator                          Projected in SAR/PAD      Actual/Latest Estimate
Labeling                          Truthful system to be      Introduced
introduced
Study for National Seed Reserve    Planned for PYI           Study delayed. 26 Woreda stores
recommended. Design completed for 6
(2000).
Quality control (system)           Independent system to be  Samples submitted to NSIA and analyzed
established               on regular basis
Upgrading of labs NSIA             I national seed testing   Upgraded and substantially commissioned
laboratory
ESE                I seed testing lab at HQ  Facilities enhanced
Establishment of labs NSIA/regional  None planned            8 under construction
agricultural bureaus
ESE                5 regional at seed        Established and operating
multiplication and
processing centers
Seed standards                     To be established         Standards for 74 varieties published
Seed register                      Published by PY I         First published 1998 with annual updates
Plant quarantine services          Uniform system            Procedures still in draft form (2002)
implemented by 1996
Certification                      Voluntary at first        To be introduced 2002 with a view to
becoming compulsory
Law                                By September 1996         Seed Proclamation June 2000
Sales to farmers by ESE            Increased (from 0.3% in   8% in 2001
1994)
Seed pricing (breeder seed)        To cover (development) cost  Insignificant contribution to development
cost
(commercial seed)      Non-subsidized, market    No direct subsidies but some
determined                cross-subsidization from hybrid maize to
other seeds by ESE. ESE/RABs are price
setters using grain market prices as
reference point.
Private and cooperative dealers    To be established by ESE  Some initiatives in SNNPRS and Oromia
regions
Restructuring of the ESE           Particularly regions      Delayed and partial (see annex 9)
Private business development       To be promoted            Studies, promotions and training
conducted. Access to breeder seed and
imports provided. Access to capital,
suitable land constrained.
Small and medium seed enterprises  To be advised             Studies conducted but detailed
technical/business expertise not availed
Improved access to seed in remote  Little change
locations
Informal seed exchange and secondary  To be fostered         SSMS replaced by FBSPMS. (See Annex
seed multiplication system (SSMS)                            8) No direct support for informal seed
exchange
SSMS farmers                       To evolve according to    FBSPMS max 17 796 (2000) falling to 8
experience (maybe 8,000)   794 (2001). Average: 10,000
SSMS area                          Not specified             FBSPMS maximum 8,500 hectares (2000)
falling to 4,300 hectares (2001). Average
- 24 -



of 5,000 hectares.
Business plans ESE                 PYI onwards               Prepared and submitted
Indicator                          Projected in SAR/PAD      Actual/Latest Estimate
Management information system,                               Yet to be commissioned. Seed data bank
NSIA                                                         incomplete.
Management information system, ESE  To be installed with EU  Accounting only assisted by EU. MIS yet
assistance                to be completed (2002)
Institutional Strengthening
Indicator                          Projected in SAR/PAD      Actual/Latest Estimate
(number)
NSIA
Vehicles                        12                         13 (+22 yet to be allocated)
Office equipment/furniture       US$0.30 million           37 computers, generator, training and
other equipment
NVRC
Officer/secretary                                            appointed in NSIA
Workshops                        Regular                   Meetings and fieldwork supported
Plant Quarantine Services
Vehicles                         2                         1
IBCR
Storage and drying rooms         I each                    None
Vehicles                         3                         2
Computers                        11                        2
Machinery/equipment              US$0.4 million            Tractor, threshers, pumps and
equipment procured
University/EARO
Cold stores and storage rooms    9                         9 constructed
Lab and other equipment          US$0.4 million            Various items procured. AUA lab fully
utilized
Seed cleaners                    7 small, I large, 2        18 x 1.5 tfhr mobile and 2 stationary
multipurpose. US$0.35m   machines. Distributed and partially
used.
Agric. machinery                 US$0.7 million            Tractors and a range of agricultural
machinery, pumps etc procured.
I Generally under-utilized.
Vehicles                         3 pickups, 1 motorcycle    I pickup to university
(m/c)
ESE (major items also included above)
Agricultuiral machinery           9 tractors, 2 combines and  6 implements only for Kunzila basic
implements                seed farm. 2 tractors still under
procurement.
Equipment                         5 forklifts, pallets etc  Pallets, conveyor belts and spares
Vehicles                          10 trucks, 7 vehicles, 2 m/c  4 x 40 ton trucks (+4 under
procurement) 14 vehicles 2 in/c, 2 land
rovers as mobile workshops
# Note: Detailed cost tables for SAR not available on file Planned quantities/values are those listed as original
cost in NSIA application for cost restructuring.
- 25 -



Human Resource Development
Indicator                          Projected in SAR/PAD (#)  Actual/Latest Estimate
Technical assistance short termn   34mm                      None
Technical assistance long term, NSIA  540 mm                 0 mostly replaced by contract staff
Overseas training:
Long terrn academic              6 x 3 years               1 Ph.D., 5 M.Sc. in seed technology
(a) plus I post-graduate Diploma in
Agriculture
Short term courses (Plant Quarantine  9 in total within 5 years  35 short-term courses with about 40
Services, IBCR)                                      participants from HQs of NSIA and
other institutions. Also about 20 from
RABs
Short term courses (ESE)         10: 2 in each year        5 individual management, and 3
technical courses with a total of 10
participants
Study tours and conferences NSIA                          16 including 13 with 10 participants
from HQs, 3 with 8 from regional
agncultural bureaus, and 3 with 5 from
private sector
Study tours ESE                  5 (1 annually)            2 in total with 10 participants
Local training:
Breeding/research for EARO and   50 trainees in seed       35 trainees. 8 EARO mechanics were
university                       technology over 5 years   also given technical training
Training for NSIA                Not specified              6 trainees in seed technology, 58 in
computing and about 20 in assorted
management skills
Training for regional agricultural  Not specified           23 trainees in seed technology, 134 in
bureaus                                                     seed quality control, 48 in mechanics
and seed processing plus workshops
and training of trainers
Training for SSMS                 Courses and field days    For local training under FBSPMS see
Annex 8, Table 7
ESE Management                    Systematic training of ESE  31 from 1999 onwards (including 24
regional staff: several each  from Regions), plus 28 in computing
year.                     (all HQ)
ESE Other                         20 in total over 5 years  21 in seed processing, 22 in vehicle
maintenance and 9 in other technical
fields
Studies (NSIA)                    National seed reserve study  Completed 1998. Also Marketing
Study, MIS, ISSP, FBSPMS
Evaluation, ICR, and various studies
for private sector development
Studies (ESE)                     Feasibility studies for basic  Kunzila basic seed farm feasibility
seed farm and processing  (1999), processing plant in new
plants.                   locations (1999), seed marketing action
plan study (2000), information system
strategy plan (2000), management
information system (2002)
(a) 1 Ph.D. and 1 M.Sc. funded by IDA, others with fellowships.
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
t | 0 ~ ) { Y R nl ~;~ > -  -1=] >sv z * =               _ _ ~Appraisal  Actal/Latsts  Percentge o"f'.r
~ I ' R z ;; ~-       v                      _L - > Estimate---  Estimate  ppraisal
Component ,             -     US$ miltioh -  US$ millon-n*:...
A: Seed Enterprise Development
Informal Sector (a)                              5.30           6.00           113
Formal Sector                                   11.90           5.50            46
B: Capacity Building
Institutional Strengthening                     12.00           7.30            61
Human Resource Development                       1.80           1.70            94
Total Baseline Cost                                31.00          20.50
Total Project Costs            31.00          20.50
Total Financing Required            31.00          20.50
(a) Actual refers to estimated cost of FBSPMS
Total excludes US$0.8 m of PPF (SAR) US$0.6 m (Actual)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Mathod
ExpenditureCategory      ICB                                    N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         2.60         0.00         0.00         2.60
(0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)
2. Goods                     8.30         5.90         0.60         0.10        14.90
(6.20)       (5.80)       (0.50)       (0.00)      (12.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         3.90         0.00         3.90
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.90)       (0.00)       (3.90)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         6.00         3.60         9.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.40)       (0.00)       (3.40)
5. PPF                       0.00         0.00         0.80         0.00         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.80)       (0.00)       (0.80)
Total                     8.30          8.50        11.30         3.70        31.80
(6.20)       (7.30)       (8.60)       (0.00)       (22.10)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
7         F        L 1,l t ' rr ^^' 'Procurement Methodh
*Expenditure Category       ICB.                            2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB          Other
1. Works                       0.00          0.28          0.00          0.00          0.28
(0.00)        (0.06)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.06)
2. Goods                       5.91           0.12         2.57          0.30          8.90
(4.60)        (0.01)        (1.66)        (1.22)       (7.50)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. PPF                         0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                        5.91          0.40          2.57          0.30         9.18
(4.60)        (0.07)        (1.66)        (1.22)        (7.56)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage ofAppraisal
^ 7 < Component             Appraisal Esti ate    |    ActnialILatest Estimate
__                     -  I r      4 I     L->   1'tt Iy       a E zBank  Govt.  CoF.  Bank  - GovL  -.CoF. . Bank Govt.  CoF.
1. Seed Enterprise
Development:
(a) Informal Sector   4.00      1.30      0.00     3.40                2.50    85.0    0.0    0.0
(b) Formal Sector     6.30      0.00      5.50     2.88       2.63             45.7    0.0    0.0
2. Capacity Building:
(a) Institutional     9.20      2.80     0.00      4.25      2.35              46.2   83.9    0.0
Strengthening
(b) Human Resource    1.60      0.00     0 20      1.27       1.25             79.4    0.0    0.0
Development
- 28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Cost Benefit Analysis (Indicate Currency, units and base year)
- Present Value of IFlows
Economic analysis                     lFAnDannial analsis
Appraisal       Latest Estimates          Appraisal      Latest
Estimates
Benefits        ETB 618million    ETB 40 million
Costs           ETB 208 million   ETB 112 million
Net Benefits    ETB 410 million   Negative
IRR/NPV        36%               Negative                 8% (ESE)        Not
verifiable
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Person's and Specialty           Performarnce Rating"
'(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.).  lmfiplementation 'Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/1990                      4   Economist (1), Agriculturist (1),
Financial Analyst (1), Marketing
Specialist (1)
02/1991                      6    Economist (1), Financial Analyst
(2), Marketing Specialist (1),
Seed/Institutional Specialist (1),
Agricultural Economist (1)
03/1992                      9    Economist (1), Seed Specialist
(1), Agricultunst (1),
Environmental Specialist (1),
Women in Development
Specialist (1), Procurement
Specialist (1), Financial Analyst
(1), Accounting Specialist (1),
Operations Specialist (1)
07/1994                      6    Operations Specialist (1),
Economist (1), Seed Specialist
(2), Marketing Specialist (1),
Institutional Specialist (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
02/1995                      6    Operations Specialist (1),
Economist (1), Seed
Specialist (2), Marketing
Specialist (1), Institutional
Specialist (1)
Supervision
11/1996                      5   Task Team Leader (1),               S             S
Operations Officer (1), Intern
(1), Consultant (Seed Production)
(1), Consultant (Seed
Institutions) (1)
04/1997                      2    Consultant (Seed Specialist) (1),   S             S
Task Team Leader (1)
03/1998                      6    Senior Agricultunst (1),           U             U
Procurement Analyst (1),
Economist (1), Operations
Officer (1), Disbursement Officer
(1), Financial Analyst (1)
07/1998                       3   Sr. Agriculturist (1), Principal   U              U
Operations Officer (1),
Agricultural Specialist (1)
07/1999                      5    Task Team Leader (1),              U              S
- 30 -



Operations Specialist (1),
Agriculturist (1), Financial
Specialist (1), Procurement
Specialist (1)
03/2000                       9   Senior Agricultural Specialist       S             S
(1), Principal Operations Officer
(1), Procurement Analyst (2),
Financial Management Specialist
(1), Agricultural Operations
Officer (1), Informatics Specialist
(1), Consultant (1), Agriculturist,
IFAD (1)
11/2000                       5   Agriculturist (1), Operations        S             S
Officer (1), Principal Operations
Officer (1), Financial
Management Specialist (1),
Procurement Analyst (1)
06/2001                           Task Team Leader (1),                S             S
Operations Specialist (1),
Agriculturist (1), Rural
Development Specialist
(1),Procurement Specialist (1)
ICR
04/02/2002                         Economist (1), and                  S             S
Agronomist (1) (FAO/CP)
Note: Perforniance rating for the implementation completion report on development objective is marginally
satisfactory.
(b) Staff
Stage ofProject Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
_________________________           - No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 103                           154
Appraisal/Negotiation                    100/31                       220/76
Supervision                                174                           249
ICR                                       N/A*                         N/A*
Total                                      408                           697
* Not available
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
I Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      O N O NA
| Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
F Financial                            O H  OSUOM      O N O NA
F Institutional Development            O H  O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
8XGender                          OH OSUOM *N ONA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
F Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Ol Public sector management            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
F Lending                                             OHS Os        Ofu   OHU
F Supervision                                         OHS Os        OU    OHU
F Overall                                             OHS OS        O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
I Preparation                                         OHS OS        OU    OHU
 Government implementation performance               O HS O S      0  U  0 HU
[Z Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS        O U   O HU
0 Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
Note: Bank and Borrower performances in all cases were rated marginally satisfactory.
- 33-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff appraisal report
April 24, 1995
Aide memoire-Supervision reports
November 13, 1996
July 29, 1999 (midtern review)
April 23, 2002 (ICR mission)
Studies
Evaluation of the Implementation of Farmer-Based Seed Production and Marketing Scheme, December,
2001.
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8. Farmer-Based Seed Production and Marketing Scheme
Dverview
The farmer-based seed production and marketing scheme (FBSPMS) replaced the informal sector
secondary seed multiplication scheme originally included in the project. The FBSPMS was designed by the
government both as a continuation of the national extension intervention program (NEIP) and to augment
the supply of seed for the input packages supplied on credit through NEIP. The NSIA and the regional
agricultural bureaus with considerable success developed a network of smallholder FBSPMS outgrowers
for the production of improved varieties of seed. The regional agricultural bureaus were, however, less
successful in purchasing, processing, and handling the resulting output. With NEIP cunrently being
evaluated with a view to reformulating the program, the future of the FBSPMS in its current form and
scale is in doubt. This annex evaluates the development of FBSPMS during the project period and assesses
the impact of the subcomponent.
Evolution of program design
The secondary seed multiplication scheme was presented in the SAR as a pilot to develop ways to deliver
seeds of improved varieties to poor farmers in remote areas to augment traditional varieties and landraces.
The focus of the program was changed once the ministry of agriculture initiated NEIP in 1995, based on
the achievements of the Sasakawa Global 2000 onfarm extension demonstration plots. In 1996 EFAD also
proposed expanding support for seed production by farmers through an informal seed subcomponent
(post-appraisal report, 0687-ETH, July 1996). The NSIA then conceived of the renamed FBSPMS as both
a supplier of seed to NEIP and as an opportunity for more advanced smallholders to diversify into seed
production. FBSPMS was to be financed by both the Bank and WFAD.
The change in emphasis from the secondary seed multiplication scheme as presented in the SAR to the
FBSPMS is shown in table 1. At the time, the Bank expressed strong concerns about the lack of a detailed
implementation plan for the scheme, the change in design from an informal to a more formal seed
production system and the resulting increase in government involvement and investment in the scheme, and
the lack of clear plans to ensure sustainability. Despite the concerns, the Bank approved in early 1997 the
revised subcomponent without further assessing market demand or the risks involved.
- 35 -



Table 1: Changes in design and targets of informal seed multiplication subcomponent
Target                    Staff appraisal report  NSIA: Implementation
April 1995          manual April 1997
Number of woredas in project year 5     200                     185
Number of farmers involved in project year 5  8,000             15,000
Area of multiplication in project year 5                        5,513
(hectare)
Production in project year 5 (ton)      1,600                   14,386
of which is seed (ton)            320                      14,386
of which cereals are:             not available           76%
Type of seed                            new variety or landrace  basic or certified CI
Farmer plot size (hectare)
cereals                                                   0.5
pulses                                                    0.25
Onfarm demonstration of new varieties   yes                     not mentioned
Seed minikits                          free of charge           on credit
Credit inputs                           none: no fertilizer     credit from region: 25%
down and 85% at harvest
Revolving fund                          none                    yes
Seed cleaning equipment
Type                                    simple hand tools       mobile: 0.5 tons per hour
Cost                                                            U$3.9 million
Seed testing
Field inspection                        none                    by development agents
Type                                    none                    minilabs
Cost                                    nil                     US$1.8 million
Seed marketing                          Farmer-to-farmer only  to NEIP
Implementation by:                     regional agricultural    NSIA coordinates;
bureaus with minimum    regional agricultural
intervention            bureaus select farmers,
provide credit and inputs,
inspect fields, and
purchase seed
Development agents                                              750
Supervisors                                                     185
Total subcomponent cost (US$)           US$5.0 million          US$14.0 million
Implementation
Area andfarmer selection. Staff of regional agricultural bureaus selected the woredas that would
participate in the program, initially from the four major crop production regions of Oromiya, Amhara,
Tigray and Southern Nations and Nationalities People's Region, and later in Gambela,
Benishangul-Gumuz, and Harari, although these latter produced less than 2 percent of the total output.
Efforts were made to avoid areas with a high risk of crop failure, although map 1, annex 7 indicates that
FBSPMS activities were distributed reasonably evenly between areas of high production and woredas with
- 36 -



chronic food shortages. The number of farmers and the area involved increased rapidly (and above target)
until project year 4, but declined rapidly thereafter as falling grain prices and mounting credit arrears
restricted interest (table 2). About 53 percent of participating farrners lived in the Southem Nations and
Nationalities People's Region, but the number of participants in this region fell sharply following the peak
attained in project year four.
Table 2: Number of farmers participating in the IFBSPMS by region
Project year
1        2         3        4        5         6      Total     % of
_________total
1996     1997      1998     1999     2000     2001
Amhara                0      420      747     1,441     1,767     938     5,313      9.8
Benishangul           0        0       27        25       80        0       132      0.2
Gambela               0        0      200        0        92       24       316      0.6
Harari                0        0       45       119      200       50       414      0.8
Oromiya               0      276     1,366    2,300    6,423     3,310   13,675     25.3
SNNP                 0       399     6,280   10,876    7,889     3,142   28,586     52.9
Tigray                0      357     1,088    1,480     1,345    1,330    5,600      10.4
Total                 0     1,452    9,753   16,241    17,796    8,794   54,036
Original Plan         0     1,700    4,500    7,500    11,300   15,000   40,000
Revised Plan *                                         33,595   21,136   79,731
Percent achieved      0       85      217       217      157       59       135
Source: NSIA, FBSPMS performance report, December 2001
* Targets for participating farmers were increased for project years 5 and 6.
Seasonal inputs. The participants of FBSPMS received a standard package of seed, fertilizer, and
occasionally pesticides, similar to the package that NEIP participants received except that FBSPMS
participants received a later generation of seed. Staff of the regional agricultural bureaus, the ESE, and the
NSIA determined what specific crop varieties would be distributed under NEIP. The staff consulted with
the participants of the FBSPMS to learn their preferences, but were constrained in what they could supply
by the varieties for which the ESE had seed available.
Credit and recovery. Credit for the package was available from woreda agricultural bureaus through zone
and regional offices, normally with a 25 percent down payment with the balance due after the harvest A
national bank delivered the credit and each regional government guaranteed it. Loan repayments were
deposited into a special account at the regional level. Farmers repaid in the early years about 85 percent of
the loans, in project year 4 about 10 percent, and in project year 6 virtually nothing as cereal prices
declined. NSIA has not assembled data on credit and repayments.
Crop and seed production. With exceptions in the early years when certified seed, later generations, and
even landraces (particularly of tef) were provided, FBSPMS farmers have grown basic seed coming
directly from the ESE seed farms or contract growers. (NSIA intends to initiate formal certification for
wheat and maize in 2002, but this will not apply to the FBSPMS.) Only limited demonstrations of new
varieties were conducted each year in most woredas, but the basic seed provided from the ESE for the
FBSPMS included varieties released within the last two years (table 6). Project designers originally
expected that seeds of a wide range of crops would be made available to participants in the FBSPMS. In
actuality, cereals dominated (95 percent), pulses and potato comprised 2 percent each, oilseeds made up
less than I percent, and vegetable and forage crop seed comprised the remainder (table 3). Table 4 shows
- 37 -



area by region devoted to the dominant crops.
Table 3: Improved Seed output under FBSPMS by crop (tons)
Project Year
1         2        3         4        5         6        Total    % of
1996      1997     1998      1999     2000      2001                total
Wheat                  0      562     3,920    11,454    12,096    7,857     35,889    76.26
Maize (comp)           0      155       125       499      225       175      1,179     2.51
Barley                 0       73       128       293      605       354      1,453     3.09
Tef                    0      288      1,550    2,792     1350       504      6,484    13.78
Sorghum                0        0        16         6       34        18        74      0.16
Rice                   0        0         6         6        0        31        43      0.09
Hancot bean            0        0         9        70       91        92       262      0.56
Chick pea              0        0        11        99      174        61       345      0.73
Fava bean              0        0         4        65      131        78       278      0.59
Field pea              0        0         3         0        7        33        43      0.09
Linseed                0        0         0         1       20         8         29     0.06
Sesame                 0        0         0         0                            0      0.00
Groundnut              0        0         0        10       20         0         30     0.06
Soya bean              0        0         0         0        5         0          5     0.01
Potato                0         8        36       824       60         0        928     1.97
Onion                  0        0         0       0.6        0         0        0.6     0.00
Chilies               0         0         0       0.4        0         0        0.4     0.00
Forage crops           0        0         6        13        0         0         19
Total                  0     1,086     5,814   16,133    14,818     9,211    47,062
Source: NSIA, FBSPMS and Seed Enterprise Development (July 1996 to December 2001) performance
report, December 2001.
- 38 -



Table 4: Breakdown of crop area within NEIP program by region (hectares)
Area of crop (hectares)
Year        Crop        Oromiya       Amhara       Southern      Others        Total
Nations and
Nationalites
People's
Region
1995    Wheat                 2,460        1,400          620          850         5,330
Maize                 2,328          456          785           215         3,784
Barley                   0             0            0             0            0
Tef                   2,634        1,889          527           868         5,918
Sorghum                405           264            0           284          953
Total        7,827        4,009         1,932        2,217       15,985
1996             Total  not available  not available  not available  not available  175,000
1997    Wheat                37,694       26,862        14,831        6,695       86,082
Maize                23,837        8,968        17,319        9,280        59,404
Barley                8,358        2,464         2,587        3,364        16,773
Tef                  35,791       24,012        14,943       31,399       106,145
Sorghum               5,124        1,252           87         6,307        12,770
Total      110,804       63,558        49,767       57,045      28,1174
1998             Total  not available  not available  not available  not available  1,061,013
1999             Total  not available  not available  not available  not available  1,401,894
2000    Wheat               160,029      110,948        51,011        9,486       331,474
Maize               184,223       148,312       79,445        6,403       418,383
Barley               81,843       37,126        20,599        10,945      150,513
Tef                 179,911      182,760        48,930       31,619       443,220
Sorghum              19,761         1,147        1,273        6,075        28,256
Total               625,767      480,293       201,258       64,528      137,1846
Source: Agricultural extension departnent, ministry of agriculture.
Field inspection. Extension staff were trained in how to use seed production technology, and in turn
provided training to smallholders who were interested in multiplying seeds. They made field visits to check
conditions under which seeds were being grown and the handling of seeds during and after harvest
However, given the pressure on extension staff who were required to conduct many other tasks, it is likely
that these visits were not as regular and thorough as needed.
Seed marketing. Service cooperatives in Oromiya, a private supply company in the Southem Nations and
Nationalities People's Region, and extension staff elsewhere arranged for the purchase, cleaning, and
processing of seed produced under the FBSPMS. The purchase price was set on the basis of an agreed
price formula that varied by region. Why NSIA set different prices for the same seeds produced through
the program is unclear.
o   Southern Nations and Nationalities People's Region: ETB 0.50 per kilogram over the current market
grain price.
o   Tigray: ETB 0.30 per kilogram over the current market grain price.
O   Oromiya: 20-25 percent over the current market grain price.
O   Amhara: 15 percent over the current market grain price.
- 39 -



The price offered in Oromiya was apparently not attractive or remunerative enough to encourage farmers to
observe requirements for seed quality. In the Southern Nations and Nationalities People's Region, the price
was perhaps too attractive explaining why the region produced 53 percent of the total seed produced under
the program.
Seed processing. The FBSPMS supplied participating farmers with motorized seed cleaners, threshers,
and maize shellers. With the distribution to regional agricultural bureaus of seed cleaners donated by the
Japanese under the second Kennedy Round, the overall capacity of seed cleaning equipment reached about
45,000 tons per year. This was three times more than the planned seed production in project year 5 of
14,400 tons, and eight times higher than the maximum annual seed sales in project year 4 of 5,500 tons.
(Capacity calculation is based on the assumption that a standard season comprises one hundred six hour
days.)
FBSPMS evaluation and survey. An independent evaluation of the FBSPMS carried out in 2001 included
the results of a survey of 600 farmer participants (Evaluation of the Implementation of the Farmer-Based
Seed Production and Marketing Scheme, Final Report, WAAS International Pvt. Ltd. Co., December 2001
). Also in 2001, the planning and programming department of NSIA interviewed 400 participants to better
understand what the seed produced under the FBSPMS was being used for. Preliminary data indicate that
farmers retained 5 percent of output for home use in the following season and that they sold or exchanged
an average of 11.5 percent. However, exchanges and sales fell from 18 percent of output to less than 9
percent over the four production years surveyed (derived from NSIA's survey in 2001 of 404 FBSPMS
participants). This could also imply that seeds produced were not popular, possibly on quality grounds.
Output and impact
Production and sales. The program exceeded its targets over its five years of implementation by 35
percent for number of farmers, by 70 percent for area of multiplication, and by 21 percent for quantity of
seed produced by (table 5). However, although all of the seed produced by FBSPMS was intended for use
in extension packages, overall only 30 percent was purchased for use by NEIP. Moreover, using data from
NSIA's field survey, only 42 percent of FBSPMS production can be recognized with any confidence as
having been used for seed in the following year. While farmers may have purchased the seed from local
markets at prices for grain and later used the product for seed, but evidence supporting this theory is not
available.
- 40 -



Table 5: FBSPMS: Participants, area, seed production and fmnal use
Project Year
1      2       3       4       5       6     Total Targets
1996    1997   1998    1999   2000    2001
Basic seed (tons) purchased by         0      55    538     593     904     575   2665    N/A
FBSPMS from ESE'                                                                      I
Number of farmers in FBSPMS            0   1,452   9,753  16,241  17,796   8,794 54,036 40,000
Hectares of multiplication             0     742   4,603  7,200   8,453    4,305 25,303  14,851
Certified seed production (tons)       0   1,086   5,812  16,144  14,830   9,211 47,083 38,908
Seed sold by FBSPMS to NEIP (tons)2    0    693    2,289  5,475   3,375       0 11,832 38,908
Seed used on-farm (tons)3              0     54     291     807     742     461   2,354
Local exchanges and sales of seed4     0     125    668    1,857  1,705    1,059  5,415
Seed consumed or sold in market (ton)'  0   214    2,564  8,005   9,008    7,691 27,482
Percent certified seed from FBSPMS     0      80     56      50      391     17     42     100
used as seed
1/ Includes some certified seed in early years
2/ Assumes no purchases in 2002
3/ Figure of 5 percent denved from NSIA's 2001 FBSPMS survey
4/ Figure of 11.5% denved from NSIA's 2001 FBSPMS survey
5/ Balance of seed produced less sales and on-farm seed use
6/ Five-year totals from implementation manual, April 1997
N/A means not available.
Crop and variety mix. From project years 3 to 5 (1998/99-2000/01), sales from the FBSPMS provided 23
percent of the requirements of NEIP for seed. (Note that for hybrid maize, which was not produced under
the FBSPMS, NEIP participants received seed from either the ESE or a local branch of a multinational
seed enterprise.) Despite efforts by the NSLA to match production to demand, there was a mismatch
between crops and varieties produced by the FBSPMS and those requested in the following year by
participants in NEIP (table 6). For example, in project year 3, regional agricultural bureaus purchased
about 2,300 tons of seed from the FBSPMS (less than half of production), but procured over 5,000 tons of
wheat seed from the ESE for NEIP. Two-thirds of the seeds procured from the ESE were also varieties
grown by the FBSPMS, while one-third comprised other, sometimes more recently-released, varieties. In
the same year in Amnhara the FBSPMS produced wheat seed of a single variety (of 1981), while in the
following season NEIP distributed seed of four later varieties in the region. Purchasing seed of a large
number of crop varieties from small and sometimes widely-dispersed seed producers has proved logistically
difficult for the regional agricultural bureaus. Purchase and distribution of seed through NEIP has often
been carried out within individual woredas.
-41 -



Table 6: FBSPMS seed production in 1998/99, and purchases from the ESE for NEIP in
1999/2000
Seed planted by VBSPMS (ton)  Seed harvested by FBSPMS (ton)    Sold to NEIP by the ESE (ton)
Crop or  Year of Dre mlyt Amhara SNNPR Tigray  Total romlys Amhara SNNPR Tigray  Total Oronitya Ambara SNNPR Ttgray Total
varieeaty  release
Wheat
HAR710   1995     Ll     0    228    30   269    168    0   3,651  480  4,299     383     63     0   0     446
t1AR 1685  1995   20     0    0       0    20    312    0      0     0    312    247     232    77   175   730
ET 13    1981      5    23    41      0    70    85    373   656     0   1,11    581     439     0     0  1020
PAVEN    1982      6     0      0     0     6    96     0      0     0    96     1,136     6     O     0  1142
K6295     1980     0     0    7       0     7     0    0     118     0    118     75      95     0     0   170
HAR-1595  1997     4     0     16     0    20    66     0    250     0    315     139      0     0     0   139
HAR 1407  1997     0    0      0      0     0     0      0     0     0     0      33       0     0   0      33
HAR 1522  1997     0     0     0      0     0     U     o      c     0     0      183     48   333     0   564
HAR 64   1995      0    0    0  07          70    0    0       0     0     0      649    102   100     0   851
H1AR 1899  1998    0     0    0       0     0     0    0       0     0     0       5       0     o -        5
Bulk     1977      0     0    0       0     0          0       0     0     0      62       9    55     0   127
HAR 1709  1994     0     0    0       0     0      0   0       0     0     0      75      26     0     0 101
Total             45    23    362    30   461   726    373  4675   480   6254    3494     994  564   175  5227
Tet
CR37      1984     0     0     27     0    27     0      0   639     0    639      11      10    0    30    51
DZ-01-354  1970    I     5   11       4    20    14   105    250    91    461     48       7     0     0    55
DZ-01-196  1978    4     11     4     0    19    101   246   103     0    449      10      1     0     0    I1
DZ-CR-358 1995     0     0    0       0     0     0      0     0     0     0       9       0     0     0     9
DZ 01-974  1995    0     0    0       0     0     0    0       0     0     0       0       0     0     0     0
DZ 01-974  1995    0     0      0     0     0         0o       0     0      0       1      0     0     0     1
DZ CR-44  1982     0     0      00                       0     0            0      2       0           0     2
DZCR-82  1982       0                 0     0      00 0  0     0                   5       0     0     0     5
Total     -         5    5     42     4    66    1     358   992    91   1549      85      18    0    30   13
Source. NSIA and the ESE data FBSPMS seed production by variety is based on an average wheat seed production of
1.5 ton per hectare.
Trainingprogram. Training was recognized as pivotal to the production of quaLity seed and addressed two
basic themes: seed production and seed processing. Table 7 indicates that the trainiing program has
particularly focused on those directly involved with seed production, and compares achievements with plan.
Training manuals have been prepared by NSLA covering seed production techniques, seed health
management and seed quality maintenance, although in English rather than in Amharic. These have been
distributed to field level extension workers as part of their training support. Overseas training was also
provided to'selected staff (table 8).
-42 -



Table 7: FBSPMS local training
Number of trainees                     Target   Percent
________  ________                          ~~~~~~~achievement
PYI      PY2      PY3     PY4      PY5      PY6    Total
Traming of trainers          0        0       34       18      28       18     98     180          54
Supervisors and              0      165      484      689       0      722  2,060    1,321        156
development agents                                                     I_I
Seed quality control         0      123       95        0      113       0    331     385          86
technicians         __.
Meclianics and machinery     0        0        0       22       0       104   126     200          63
operation                                            _
Lab technicians              0        0        0        0        0       1 8   18       0 Not available
Farmers on seed              0     1,452    8,000    1624        0    4,930 16,006  23,492         68
production technology
Source: NSIA, FBSPMS performance report, December 2001.
Table 8: FBSPMS overseas training and study tours
Training topic         Year   Duration   Participants  Location          Comments
O&M of seed production and supply  1999  1 month      9        Sweden   SMS from all regional agriculturl
bureaus
Use, maintenance and repair of seed  2000  1 month    7        Sweden   All participating regional
processing machines                                                     agricultural bureaus
Study tour on seed industry     2000    2 weeks       4         China   Amnhara, Oromiya, Tigray, and
SNNP
Study tour on seed industry     2000    2 weeks       3          India  Harari, Gambela, and Bemshangul
Study tour on seed industry     2001    1 week        2         Israel  Oroni3ya and Amhara
Source: NSIA, FBSPMS perfornance report, December 2001
Beneficiary impact. Farmers participating in the scheme have benefited from increased incomes.
Indicative crop budgets for wheat and tef of typical farmers in the Southem Nations and Nationalities
People's Region show that farmers can eam ETB 1,000 more per hectare for wheat and ETB 600 more per
hectare for tef if they sell all seeds produced to the scheme compared to what they would eam under NEIP
(tables 9 and 10). On the standard NEIP plot of 0.5 hectare this would amount to a net income gain of
ETB 500 and ETB 300 respectively. Actual incomes varied widely because the farmers' plot sizes
diverged significantly, and farmers did not sell all their output. The more advanced farmers that the
FBSPMS tended to target often cultivated several hectares, so earned more than average. Many small
farmers rented small plots on institutionally-owned land, so earned less than the average.
-43 -



Table 9: Indicative crop budgets for wheat (1 hectare)
Physical                   Budget (ETB)
Unit   Value or        Conven-    NEIP        FBSPM   Conven-   NEIP    FBSPMS
cost (ETB)        tional                   S     tional
Total output                          [1,200]    [2,000]      [2,100]
Sales as seed      kg       1.75           0          0         2,000        0        0     3500
Sales as grain     kg       1.25        1,200      2,000          100     1,500   2,500      125
Total revenue                                                             1,500   2,500    3,625
Inputs
Farm-saved         kg       1.25         150          0             0     187.5       0        0
seed
Seed from          kg       2.45           0        125           125        0      306      306
package
Fertilizer
DAP             kg      2.75            0        100           100        0     275      275
urea            kg       1.9            0        100           100        0      190      190
Land preparation
hire         per ha     240             1          1             1     240      480      480
Labor                  workdays
landprep                       10         10           10
sowing                          5          5            5
fert applic                     5          5            5
weeding                        20         20           25
roguing                         0          0            5
harvest                        10         15           15
post harvest                   1 0        15           15
Total                              60         70           80
Seed cleaning      ton       50            0          0             2        0        0      100
Total expenses                                                             428     1,251    1,351
Net return per hectare
All FBSPMS production sold as seed  1,073   1,249    2,274
75% sold as seed                    2,024
50% sold as seed                     1,774
25% sold as seed                     1,524
0% sold as seed                     1,274
Net return per workday      18       18       28
Source: Consultants' evaluation of FBSPMS, December 2001, NSIA and field data
Note: Budget is representative of farmers in SNNPR.
- 44 -



Table 10: Indicative crop budgets for tef (1 hectare)
Physical                  Budget (ETB)
Unit  Value or       Conven-   NEIP      FBSPMS Conven-     NEIP   FBSPMS
cost          tional                       tional
(ETB)
Total output                        [800]      [1,200]     [1,300]
Sales as seed      kg     2.35         0           0        1,200       0        0    2,820
Sales as grain     kg     1.85       800        1,200         100    1,480    2,220     185
Total revenue                                                        1,480    2,220    3,005
Inputs
Farm-saved seed    kg     2.10        30            0           0       63       0        0
Seed from          kg     3.62         0          30           30       0      109      109
package
Fertilizer
DAP            kg      2.75         0         100         100        0      275      275
urea           kg      1.90         0          50          50        0       95       95
Land preparation
hire        per ha     240          2           2           2      480      480      480
Labor                work-
days
landprep                      10        10        10
sowing                        5          5          5
fert applic                   5          5          5
weeding                      35         40        45
rouging                        0         0          5
harvest                      20         30         30
post harvest                  10        15         15
Total                            85        105       115
Seed cleaning     ton       60         0            0          1.2       0       0       72
Total expenses                                                         543      959    1,031
Net return per hectare
All FBSPMS production sold as seed  937    1,261   1,974
75% sold as seed                    1,824
50% sold as seed                    1,674
25% sold as seed                    1,524
0% sold as seed                    1,374
Net return per workday     11       12       17
Source. Consultants' evaluation of FBSPMS, December 2001, NSIA and field data
Note: Budget is representative of farmers in SNNPR.
Financial and economic impact. Entry into seed production increases the returns to farm labor (about
ETB 18 per person day for wheat and about ETB 11 per person day for tef) only when producers sell a
significant proportion of seed output at premium prices. Then returns can reach ETB 28 per person day
for wheat and ETB 17 per person day for tef. Costs of smaillholder production are estimated at about ETB
0.85 kilogram for wheat and ETB 1.33 per kilogram for tef, which are well below both the ESE's estimated
procurement costs and the ESE's own costs of production for basic seed. Thus procuring seed for NEIP
locally rather than having the seed delivered from the ESE seed processing centers saves economic and
financial costs. Based on average delivery costs by region, the savings over project years 2 to 6 are
-45 -



estimated at about ETB 1.66 million.
Evaluation
The production of 47,000 tons of certified seed, compared to the original plan of 39,000 tons, has been a
major achievement. Moreover the FBSPMS has created widespread awareness among farmers in areas
where it has been active of the value of quality seed and how to produce it. Many farmers when asked
during field work expressed understanding of the rudiments of seed production technology. However, since
farmers sold only 30 percent of seed output to regional agricultural bureaus or other organizations and
retained, sold, or exchanged another 15 percent for use as seed, the FBSPMS can be considered more of a
grain production program than as a seed producing program. The 2001 field survey of FBSPMS
participants conducted by the NSIA shows that farmer-to-farmer exchanges of seed fell from 18 percent of
seed produced in 1997/98 to 9 percent of seed produced in 2000/01. This suggests that farmers are
increasingly able to meet their needs for varieties currently available through other sources or that farmers
are concemed about quality of seeds produced under the FBSPMS.
At the time of project preparation, smallholder farmers, particularly in isolated and marginal areas, were
not able to easily obtain seeds and planting materials of improved varieties. The informal sector secondary
seed multiplication scheme was designed as a pilot to address this problem. It is unfortunate that this
program was not retained and implemented in areas where the FBSPMS did not operate, perhaps on a
smaller scale than originally planned. An opportunity was missed in the mid-1990s to initiate a secondary
seed multiplication and distribution scheme. Currently, the FAO/Norway Co-operative Program is
establishing in 2002 a pilot program similar to the secondary seed multiplication scheme.
No rationale was provided in the project documents for the use of scarce basic seed by the FBSPMS seed
multipliers. As an altemative, the scheme may have provided smallholders with a later generation of seed
(perhaps certified seed that was still of good quality) to produce a commercial generation of seed (certified
2) for use by NEIP. While using a later generation of seed would not likely have had much impact on
productivity or the spread of improved varieties, the cost savings could have been considerable.
The 1997 implementation manual did not provide details of the mechanism to be used under the FBSPMS
to provide and recover credit. Nor did it propose uses for the proceeds of loan repayments. Proceeds
remain in regional accounts and no decisions have been made for using them for a revolving fund, although
this was the original intent.
High output seed cleaners and threshers purchased under the scheme did not match well field operational
requirements. Smaller-scale equipment (including locally-manufactured threshers) would have been more
appropriate in some cases than the equipment actually purchased. The machines that were procured,
particularly the 31 mobile seed processing machines, have operated at a fraction of capacity, many at just
10 percent of capacity. No strategy has yet been formulated for employing or otherwise dealing with the
machines that are either lying idle or operating considerably under capacity. The ESE has indicated that it
has no need for additional machines even if it takes over the FBSPMS in the vicinity of its existing or
proposed seed multiplication and processing centers. Service cooperatives may have some use for them.
But, even with discounted prices, they may find such equipment too expensive to purchase, operate, and
maintain.
Sustainability
Farmers producing seed through the FBSPMS have depended solely on the regional agricultural bureaus
-46 -



for sales. The seeds purchased are then supplied on credit to farmers through NEIP. Poor debt repayments
in 2001 by both the FBSPMS and NEIP and continued low grain prices that discourages farmers from
purchasing inputs suggest that demand for seeds will be low in the short term and that the smallholder seed
multiplication program will shrink in 2002. Where responsibility will lie in the future for smallholder seed
multiplication is not clear.
The ESE's existing and proposed seed multiplication and processing centers are expected to facilitate
smallholder production of seeds for crops such as tef. On a very limited scale they will also facilitate
production of those with lesser demand, such as durum wheat, barley, oilseeds and pulses. Otherwise,
regional agricultural bureaus will be left with the responsibility for organizing smallholder seed
multiplication schemes. Regional govemrnments have yet to decide whether to continue in 2002 with the
FBSPMS program. Nor have they decided on the form that it will take thereafter. Some regional
agricultural bureaus have expressed concem that, following very poor seed sales in project years 5 and 6,
farmers will be reluctant to continue multiplying seeds under the scheme.
The ministry of rural development is currently undertaking an evaluation of NEIP, the only market outlet
for seed produced under the FBSPMS, with a view towards reformulating the program. Radical changes in
the scale and focus of smallholder seed multiplication schemes are needed to ensure that the schemes are
based on real rather than assumed market demand for the varieties produced. A prudent assessment of
market demand is urgently required.
The fundamental issue is how to ensure that widely-dispersed smallholders receive sufficient high quality
seed of the open-pollinated crops that form the basis for family food security. Production and distribution
through the ESE will not be adequate to meet the needs. Some form of secondary seed multiplication will
be needed, perhaps building on the substantial experience gained under the FBSPMS. Support for informal
seed systems will be necessary to ensure that farmers in marginal and isolated areas have access to new
crop varieties that may prove more productive than those currently being used.
Lessons learned
Experience with the FBSPMS generates several lessons. These include:
o   Substantial modifications of design of subcomponents should be subject to the same scrutiny as the
original design. Otherwise the Bank risks financing programs that will not achieve the objectives they
are meant to achieve.
o   Programs should be established to meet demand so that output is not wasted. Prior to initiating the
FBSPMS, government should have undertaken a detailed market analysis to leam what farmers
wanted.
o   Efforts must be made to market output of improved varieties through measures, such as demonstrations
and farmer field days. Products do not simply sell themselves.
O   Formal seed multiplication systems such as FBSPMS are more costly to facilitate than informal
systems of farmer-farmer seed dissemination, in both staff and recurrent costs. Yet, informal systems
may just as effective in delivering seed to farmers when and where they need it. In the future,
govemment may wish to promote development of the informal seed systems through cooperatives or
NGOs.
-47 -



* Training courses can have significant multiplier effects if they are well designed, well targeted, and
effectively managed.
*   Planning and initiating transitional arrangements must start well in advance of program closure
(normally startng some 18 months before closure) if program continuity and sustainability are to be
ensured.
-48-



Additional Annex 9. Seed Enterprise Development
The Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE), which multiplies prebasic and basic seed on its farms and under
contract with outgrowers, continues to dominate seed production, processing, and supply in the country.
Other sources of seed include the FBSPMS, which produces mainly wheat and tef for sale to NEIP, direct
imports (for growers requiring special horticultural and other seeds), one private enterprise that produces
and markets seed for hybrid maize, and ad hoc initiatives of research establishments and NGOs. The
number and capacity of outgrowers contracted by the ESE to multiply seeds increased during the life of the
project (providing the basis for the emergence of private seed enterprises), but no wholly independent seed
producer emerged during the project period. The increase in demand for improved seed has come from
distribution of input packages on credit by NEIP and a marked increase in demand for hybrid maize seed
(farmers increasingly prefer to grow hybrid maize rather than composite maize). This annex describes the
development of the ESE, private enterprises, and outgrowers over the project period, assesses the impact of
the project upon the development of each, and examnines the role of the main actors in the seed supply
systems of the past and the future.
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
Seed supply
Created with assistance from previous donor projects, the seed supply parastatal was instituted in 1982 as
the Ethiopian Seed Corporation and transformed in 1993 into a public enterprise. The objectives of the
enterprise according to the proclamation that established it were to multiply, clean, and produce basic
seeds, to produce marketable seeds and by-products, and to import exotic seed materials as necessary. So
far it has not produced horticultural seeds, as was originally intended. Rather it has concentrated on
multiplying and supplying improved varieties of the cereal crops commonly grown in Ethiopia, particularly
wheat (66 percent) and maize (29 percent). (The ESE imported parent material for hybrid maize from
Uganda, Malawi and Tanzania, with support from the project preparation facility for the seed systems
development project) It also produces much smaller quantities of pulse seed and oilseed, but sales of these
seeds are low (see figures 1 and 2).
-49-



Figure 1: Seed processed by ESE
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000-
5,000
.0
1993/94  1994/95   1995/96   1996/97  1997/98   1998/99   1999/00  2000/01
o Wheat    Ei Hybrid Maize   El Comp. Maize   O Teff   0 Other Cereals  * Pulses & Otlseeds
- 50 -



Figure 2: Seed sold by ESE and IFBSMPS
25,000-
20,000 -
10,000 
5,000
0 
1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01
O Wheat O Hybrid Maize 3 Comp. Maize O Teff O Other Cereals D Pulses & Oilseeds a FBSPMS Sales to NEIP
The ESE did not on average increase its processing or sales of seed from 1993/94 to 2001/01. Sales of
seed produced by ESE peaked in 1999/00 at over 20,000 tons, but sales in 2000/01 were less than in any
year except 1996/97. Hybrid maize has almost completely replaced composite maize in the product mix,
but it has been only since 1999/2000 that the total volume of maize seed processed and sold was
substantially above the levels reached in 1993/94 or 1994/95.
Varietal mix is important in raising the productivity of agriculture. The quantity and composition of basic
seed produced by ESE and the Ethiopian Agricultuml Research Organization (EARO) has varied over the
years with no clear trend (figure 3). Currently, the ESE does not produce basic seed for maize. This is
largely because its farm at Shallo is rainfed and rainfall has been erratic in both distribution and quantity.
Parent lines for hybrid maize are supplied through EARO (particularly at Bako and Melkassa). In a
significant development, contract growers use these to produce hybrid seed. The ESE produces basic seed
of wheat, barley, and tef on its farms at Gonde-Itaya. It also contracts EARO to produce these seeds in
Kulumsa, Holetta and Debre Zeit. Total production of basic seed of wheat totaled about 1,600 tons in
1995/96, 1997/98, and 1999/00; about 1,000 tons in 1994/95, 1996/97, and 2000/01; and almost 2,000
tons in 1998/99. Production of basic seed of tef has varied from about 400 tons in
1995/96 and 1997/98 down to 100 tons in 2000/01. Basic seed of pulses are produced at Shallo as part of
the rotation and isolation process required for maize seed production. In general, more basic seed of pulses
and oilseeds are produced than are required. The ESE's farm at Kunzila has so far not produced basic
seed. Tractors and implements provided under the project have only recently arrived.
- 51 -



Figure 3: Basic seed production by the ESE and EARO, 1994/95-2000/01
3,500
3,000 -
2,500-
2,000
1,500_m_                                                       i
1,000   _
500
1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02
OWheat   I Maize  S Teff  0 Barley  Iii Sorghum  0 Pulses and Oilseeds
The client base of the ESE has changed little since the beginning of the project (see figure 4). The
extension program continued to absorb in 1999/00 and 2000/01 two-thirds of seed produced, with state
farms, NGOs, and the NSIA (for drought prone areas) taking the rest. Sales to private farms and
cooperatives currently include both wheat and maize, at similar volumes. ESE's sales of tef declined
markedly from 1993/94 and have been extremely variable since with the extension program, NSIA, and
NGOs taking different quantities from year to year.
- 52 -



Figure 4: Buyers of seed produced by the ESE
20,000 -
15,000-
10,000
5,000
0 -     --~1*~                                   ~~*~ 
1995/96     1996/97     1997/98      1998/99     1999/00      2000/01
o State Farns  O MOA  0 NGOs 0 NSIA  0 NEIP  ] Private Farms and Coops 0 Others
Considering sales from the FBSPMS to NEIP in addition to those of the ESE, total sales in 1999/2000
appear to have been exceptional (see figure 2). In general sales of seed of improved varieties did not rise
appreciably. Except for 1999/2000, the seeds produced under the FBSPMS may have simply substituted
for those from the ESE, contributing to the rising stocks of unsold inventory. The NEIP has absorbed over
80 percent of total seed produced from 1995/96 to 2000/01.
Seed marketing and pricing
The ESE bases its production plans on estimates of demand from regional agricultural bureaus, its own
experience of sales over the past three to five years, prevailing cereal prices, and the characteristics of new
varieties being introduced. It also takes into account stocks being carried over from one year to the next.
Each seed multiplication and processing center is now responsible for preparing its own production plan
(reviewed by headquarters). Each center also collects information on farmer demand for seed from
extension and marketing officers. The ESE is working in liaison with the regional agricultural bureaus and
research stations to exhibit the characteristics of a range of improved varieties at a number of onfarm and
off-farm demonstration sites in different regions. The regional agricultural bureaus and the extension
officers of the ESE use the results of the demonstrations in estimating demand for specific varieties. A
committee comprising representatives of the ESE, regional agricultural bureaus, regional governments, the
NSIA, and the ministry of agriculture develop demand assessments for each region, and the marketing
department of the ESE in January and February analyzes demand. Actual volumes of seed multiplied also
depend of course on the quantities of breeder and basic seed that are available through the system.
-53 -



The seed multiplication and processing centers are currently responsible for marketing their own output.
They have been assigned areas of coverage (for example, Awassa to cover the Southem Nations and
Nationalities People's Region, and Assela to cover Arsi, Shewa and Harerge). Currently, seed is sold
directly by the centers or by woreda agricultural offices or cooperatives with which the ESE has placed
seed for sale on a commission basis. This is a new development and seed sales through these entities do not
yet account for a significant proportion of total sales. Purchasers bear the costs of delivery from the
processing center to the final destination. Cash sales from all outlets to private farms and cooperatives
accounted m 2000/2001 for 8 percent of ESE's sales. Seed packaging has been adapted to serve the needs
of smalbholders in the NEIP program (who cultivate 0.5 hectare plots) and others requiring small quantities.
In theory, selling prices are determined each year on an estimated cost-plus basis, including a standard
nationwide charge for transport of raw seed (currently ETB 200 per ton for all crops) and a single standard
processing recovery factor of 80 percent for clean seed of all crops. (In the case of wheat, tef, and barley,
the cost of procurement is taken as the average market price.) In practice, the standard sale prices for the
major cereal seeds have remained unchanged over the past three years, although prices vary geographically
in line with varying costs for delivery of the clean seed.
Table 1: Seeds procurement and selling prices (ETB per quintal)
Prior to    1996/97     1997/98     1998/99      1999/00     2000/01
1996
Procurement price                        _
Wheat                              135            163         168         168         165
Tef                               262            241          199         258         268
Barley                             138            160                                  192
Maize composite          120       130                        106         106
Hybnd maize              231      225            225          281         225
Haricot bean                      131                         200
Selling price
Wheat                             211            245          245         245         245
Tef                                327           324          324         324         324
Barley                            230            246          246         272         272
Maize composite          172      222            222          222         222
Hybrid maize             497       547           578          578         578
Haricot bean                                                  385         385
Source: the ESE
Prices paid for seeds produced under the FBSPMS are higher than the ESE's procurement prices (figure
5). NEIP however sells the seed at the same prices as that ESE sets. ESE's selling price for hybrid maize
in 2000/2001 was ETB 5.60 per kilogram compared with Pioneer's selling price of ETB per kilogram.
- 54 -



Figure 5. ESEIFBSPMS Sood Prices cf Merkot Grain Prices
*Tef 378     -Tet
350
Toft      ToJ
300       -*
FasPM5 +    
250
-   -        Tl PhIg pb S M                           X
E                                                   -,' 
ISO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03tS
1 ~  ~     ~     ~     - 0 0 -.     -     .*             -
200
50
sO-
19D8/S7     1997198     1998/99     1998/00     2000101
1-O--Wh.at Pracuraennt C  TOt Pro-urement ---*Wheat Selling -- &--Tof Selling --- -> - -Wheat Market, Bae -- O- -Tf Markat. Nazareth
FBSPMS Labels: Tigray +     Oromia -   Amhara A    SNNPR #
Organization and management
The SAR reported that in April 1994 the ESE board had approved proposals for restructuring the
enterprise and that each regional seed processing center had been asked to operate from the beginning of the
1994/95 financial year as a separate cost center. Key remaining tasks were identified as redeploying staff
and establishing new management systems, procedures, and accounting systems. However, the processing
centers have only been operating effectively with a degree of self-determination since 2000. Following
completion of studies on marketing, organization, and information system the board in April 2001 approved
a new structure (see figure 6). The organization includes a marketing department with a promotion and
marketing division and an extension and seed promotion division under the seed production and technology
promotion department. The formal merging of basic seed farms with local seed processing centers to create
three integrated cost centers (the basic seed multiplication and processing centers) took effect only at the
beginning of the 2001/2002 financial year. It is thus too early to judge how they are performing. Three
new seed multiplication and processing centers are planned along with five new branch offices and 21 retail
outlets. The number of staff at headquarters is scheduled to rise from 103 to 156. The number of staff
employed in the centers is expected to double from 223 to 457 in step with the planned expansion of centers
from five to eight. Figure 6 shows the proposed and actual staffing levels of the various departments.
Although some new staff have been appointed, including a new head of the marketing department, more
remains to be done than has been accomplished so far. It would be wise to review the plan once the
evaluation and reformulation of NEIP now underway is completed and the market for improved seeds has
been reassessed, as the NEIP is the principal outlet for the ESE's production.
- 55 -



Figure 6. ESE OrpnftWal Stnc  Pmposed (and Ada) Saig
pffrs  & PRCg-Frrrkee              LiyCo
95(6~~~~~~  8e4(   5 'sw34)9(6
U-d 3 (2)2
Opera f -t~~y DeUG-7- ACalw              Fr
-~~~~~T
~v1PCS = Seed Poxon   &                   9N lla D
Deitat1(0                 _                F  r2  1 P20)
mproving anagemen infrmaio Systemhas atlso bee  Gewy low. ltogacunsreomtrid
regional staff hSnobeen assseaticm as Mwast aniiae.McRead&ateexouet cmmercalYD r
F=         I-
practies ingenerl, an espeiallyoafwaysto supply smGeodrfamrrwtnpt,issil Sreqire. 
Seproessingcessein capacity &             te D   i to u d  Pex     i
theprocessingcentesAtoghanubrofsafaenegoenn   n 56  1)  a
reinl tf hsntbeen(1 as sytmai as wa niiae.Mc rae xouetoieca
prcicsingnea, an eseiI ofwy ospl mlhle aieswt nus ssilrqIrdA
stfig slils an  trinn  reie   ma  berqie   ohl  h   etr  ul ptercm eca
ope[rains.mII h 
Sepoesn capcit
I~~~~~~~~~~~       56 



The ESE has capacity to process 65,000 tons of seed each year during a processing season which normally
runs from mid-December to May. Capacity is well in excess of current annual sales volumes. Processing
capacity includes six stationary processing plants and four mobile cleaners (the mobile cleaners have a
combined capacity of up to 15,000 tons per year). The project helped increase capacity by funding minor
rehabilitation at Kofele, Nekempte, and Assela, and more extensive rehabilitation of the plant at Bahir Dar
(including new machinery at Awassa and turnkey installation), which was completed in 2000. Except for
the plant at Shallo, which is only two years old and did not require rehabilitation, the plants are working
well, although some minor defects remain (for example, new screens are needed at Assela, and the
automatic bagger at Awassa now inoperative needs to be fixed). The project also financed the procurement
of one of the mobile cleaners. Finally the project helped increase storage capacity by 4,000 tons, bringing
the total to over 40,000 tons. The ESE currently has very large carryover stocks and is renting storage
capacity.
Financial management and performance
Except for 1996/97 (when operations were severely affected by el ninlo), the ESE has been profitable each
year of the project (table 2). Net profit before taxes rose from some ETB 5 million (about US$750,000) in
1995/96 to almost ETB 12 million (about US$1.4 million) in 1999/2000. However, although a profit
before tax of ETB 4.5 million (approx. US$0.5 million) is posted in the draft accounts for 2000/01, this
includes some ETB 17 million for increase in stocks. Sales in 2001/02 have been slow. In effect,
operating costs have been exceeding revenues for nearly two years (see tables 2 and 4). In addition to seed
sales, the ESE earns revenue by providing seed cleaning and transport services. The project has financed
both lorries (four delivered end 2001 and four on order) and transport services for delivery of seed for the
FBSPMS.
- 57 -



Table 2: Profit and loss summary (ETB million)
1995/96        2000/01 (a)        2001 to Mar
02
Sales revenue                             32.8             49.15                8.16
Cost of sales                             25.2             42.20               22.12
Gross operating profit                    7.60              6.95              -13.96
Other Income (b)                          1.30              2.65                0.08
8.90              9.60             -13.88
Administration and General Expenses       3.76              5.08
Administration                 3.26            3.13                         2.74
Financial charges              0.50            1.95
Net profit (loss) before tax              5.14              4.52              -16.62
Provision for taxation and adjustments     1.80             0.00
(c)
Net profit after tax                      3.34              4.52
Legal reserve                          0 70             0.22
State dividend                         1.50             3.01
Profit transferred to balance sheet       1.04              1.29
a/   Draft accounts.
b/   Mainly eamings from transport.
c/   Tax provision for 2000-01 ETB 1.78 million. Adjustment to profit of previous years ETB 1.78
million.
The ESE appears to be in a vulnerable position. It has large carryover stocks, its sales network is not
firmly established, and its major institutional clients? the regional agricultural bureaus which implement
the NEIP? have slashed their demand for seeds. Maize accounted in 2000/2001 for 33 percent of the
volume of seed sales and 67 percent of their value. With domestic maize prices falling to US$30-40 per
ton over the past two years, sales are certain to slow. To minimize losses, the ESE has decided not to
contract outgrowers to produce maize seeds during 2002.
A long-term loan from the ministry of finance for approximately ETB 13 million appears to have been
replaced with a short-term loan of similar amount (table 3). Proceeds from the IDA credit, onlent from the
ministry of finance, stood at some ETB 13.3 million at the end 2000/2001 financial year.
- 58 -



Table 3: Balance sheet (ETB million)
1995/96                                  2000-01 (a)
Fixed assets (net of depreciation)      15.3                                     33.71
Buildings and land (b)                           Gross           Net
Plant and machinery                              29.33          19.49
Tractors, trucks, vehicles                        13.72          7.47
Agricultural machinery                            10.59          1.49
Other                                             8.93           1.99
4.26          3.27
Current Assets                                       66.81         33.71
Cash                                62.3                                      95.33
Accounts receivable                                             15.01
Inventories                                                     41.27
39.05
Current Liabilities                                                95.33
Accounts payable                    40.2                                      41.29
Profit tax payable                                              30.83
Residual surplus payable                                        2.891
Capital charges                                                 1.195
State dividend                                                  0.678
Current maturity IDA loan                                       3.981
1.715
Net Current Assets                                                  41.29
Total Net Assets                        22.1                                      54.04
37.4                                      87.75
Financed by:
Paid-up capital
Donated capital                                                                   36.23
Capital reserve                                                                    3.79
Legal reserve                                                                      1.15
Retained profit                                                                    1.92
12.25
Short term loan ministry of finance     23.8                                      55.33
Long term loan                                                                   13.306
Long term loan IDA/ministry of          13.6                                      3.029
finance
Long term liabilities                                                            13.279
2.808
37.4                                      87.75
a/   Draft accounts.
- 59 -



b/   Includes construction in progress.
Regular semiannual repayments were envisaged following an initial three-year grace period. Three
repayments have been made as presented in table 4:
Table 4: Repayments by ESE of funds onlent from the ministry of finance
ETB million
October 5, 1999                                                    1.69
May 22, 2000                                                       0.87
June 23, 2001                                                      1.36
Total                                                              3.92
The debt to equity ratio as specified in the Project Agreement is 0.32 according to the figures presented in
the draft accounts 2000/01. It will below 1.0 even if the loan from the ministry of finance is counted as
long-term rather than short-term debt.
Table 5: Breakdown of income and costs by center, 2000/01 (ETB '000)
Sales           Other   Total             Costs              Total Balance
income income                               costs (a)
Cost center        Seed   Gran/By- Cleaning               Labor   Seed   Other   Over-
products  service                             material heads
Headquarters                     68           1,415  1,483                        3,374   3,374  -1,891
Gonde-Itaya basic               275             27     302   239      3     613   1,357   2,211  -1,909
seed farm
Assela (Arsi)       5,847       803    355      75   7,080   222  11,475   1,006    949  13,651  -6,571
Shallo BSF                      824             58     882   280     136    770   2,470   3,656  -2,773
Awassa (Szdamo)      8,418        3            176,  8,597   143   7,996    984   1,085  10,207  -1,610
KunziIa BSF                       5              4    - 9     31            421     996   1,447  -1,438
Bahir Dar (Gojjam)   6,852      526            273   7,650    43   1,890    229     965   3,127   4,523
Nekempte (Wollega)  13,975      149       1    234   14,358   89   3,830   1,152    573   5,644   8,715
Koffele (Bale)      10,590      188    270     385   11,432  245  12,592   1,621   1,326  15,785  -4,353
Total               45,681    2,841    626    2,647  51,794 1,291  37,922  6,794  13,095  59,102  -7,308
a/ Excludes general and administration expenses.
Future development strategy
The ESE plans to expand its operations in producing basic and certified seed and in retailing. In addition
to further developing the Kunzila basic seed farm in Gojam, the ESE has acquired Ardaita farm (3,300
hectares) in Bale, (about 20-30 kilometers from its seed processing center at Kofele) where it plans initially
to produce certified seed followed by basic seed. This, together with developing grouped smallholder
outgrowers around its proposed expanded network of seed processing centers and branch offices, would
largely replace state farm outgrowers which will progressively be transferred to the private sector or other
users. The ESE will increasingly produce seeds of crops such as durum wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. The
ESE also intends to establish a vegetable seed farm. The expansion in production together with the
establishment of 21 ESE retail outlets will require a substantial increase in investment and in borrowing.
Up until now the market for seeds has been largely built through the extension program which offers seeds
to farmers on credit. An ambitious expansion programn at this time therefore seems risky. Altemative
-60 -



strategies, involving more participation by the cooperatives and trade organizations would seem to be more
prudent.
Private enterprise
The only commercial competitor to the ESE in the Ethiopian seed market is a local branch of Pioneer, a
multinational firm that organizes the production of hybrid maize varieties through outgrowers and sells to
state farms, regional agricultural bureaus, and to others through private dealers. Pioneer formed in 1990 a
joint venture with the Ethiopian Seed Corporation (which became the ESE), providing 70 percent of the
capital of the joint venture. The joint venture was formed with the intention of developing hybrids of
cross-pollinated crops including maize, sorghum, sunflower, alfalfa (for export), and vegetables. By 1993
the joint venture contracted over 600 hectares for basic seed production on state and ESE farms. However,
the joint venture fully developed only hybrid maize seed and in 1995, after the ESE started to produce
hybrid maize, the joint venture came to an end. Since then the local company has continued to import
parent lines from Zirnbabwe and to produce its own hybrid lines for sale locally. In the early years, state
farms were the mam customers. Sales by the local company peaked in 1999 at 1,450 tons of seed,
marketed mainly through regional agricultural bureaus (clients of the extension program may take the
company's lines instead of ESE's and many do, even though they cost more (ETB 768 per quintal
compared with ETB 560 per quintal for comparable lines)). The company's lines are included in trials by
EARO and in local demonstrations, previously through Sasakawa Global 2000, and currently through
woreda-level demonstrations. As with the ESE, the company's sales fell sharply in 2002.
It has proved difficult to attract private operators in Ethiopia to produce and distribute seeds. Even Pioneer
has found sales through private outlets to be slow. One explanation for the lack of private sector interest is
that potential customers are able to obtain all the seeds and planting materials they need on credit through
the NEIP. The low purchasing power of most smallholders is also a factor. Under such conditions,
establishing a production and distribution chain is apparently too risky to be attractive to the private sector.
Outgrowers
The number of outgrowers (both state farms and private enterprises) and the scale of their operations
fluctuated widely over the life of the project. In 2001, 26 outgrowers were producing seeds on some 1,700
hectares, but no contracts were planned for 2002. Currently, outgrowing hybrid rnaize by private farmers
is concentrated in irrigated lands in the Ziway (several farms in the Awash valley were engaged in the
project's early years). Ideally, outgrowers will include seed production as part of a diversified farming
strategy to hedge risks and maintain productivity through field rotation. Some growers combine seed
production with horticultural production. Access to irrigation is important to allow flexibility in planting
time (in order to spread labor demand for de-tasselling) and to reduce risks associated with highly variable
rainfall pattems. The ESE and the private company both intensively monitor and assist their outgrowers.
This has relieved the NSIA of the burden of closely supervising outgrowers, particularly during the
de-tasselling period. The ESE also provides services such as shelling. Growers have undertaken some
modest initiatives to experiment with producing composite maize and even tomato seed, but so far not on a
commercial scale. The potential for outgrowers to graduate to producing and marketing their own seed is
constrained by the lack of distribution channels and reliable market information in the country.
-61 -



Evaluation of project impact
The project has not significantly changed the structure of Ethiopia's seed industry. Nor has it stimulated
the expansion of the private sector seed business. Some capacity has been built in the private sector as a
result of training, promotions, study tours, and workshops. Including private farmers in national seed
workshops, meetings, and on the national variety release comrnittee has helped stimulated their interest in
seed production. The establishment of the Ethiopian Seed Growers Association is a result of this interest.
The private sector will likely concentrate on producing maize seed during the medium term.
The project strategy for developing the ESE was flawed by failing to consider how the various players in
seed production would operate in a market that dominated by a single program, NEIP. The ESE had little
incentive to help develop the marketplace for seed sales as long as NEIP provided a ready outlet for its
output and it was unable to meet estimated demand. The ESE moved slowly to restructure and to develop a
marketing strategy, taking necessary steps only towards the end of the project.
Support to the ESE was through loans bearing a similar rate of interest to that available through
commercial banks (since the project closed, the interest rates on loans from commercial banks have fallen
below that on the ESE's loan under the IDA agreement). The funds have been used prudently. Had they
been used as originally planned in the SAR, the enterprise would have expanded considerably more and
would probably have been less, not more, commercially viable. The project provided no finance for private
operations.
A key issue is how to assure that supplies of quality planting material for open-pollinated cereals (critical
for family food security) are available throughout the country. If the chain from ESE to NEIP to farmer is
to be broken, as appears likely from proposals currently being discussed, continued support to woreda and
local-level seed multiplication schemes will be needed. This support could build on the substantial
experience gained under the FBSPMS. This would, however, imply that ESE would have to scale back its
plans for expanding its seed production and marketing operations.
- 62 -



Additional Annex 10. Regulatory and Institutional IFramework
Overview
The national seed industry policy was approved in late 1992. The policy covers a broad range of issues,
from plant breeding and research through to marketing and distribution of seeds. It also applies to the
organizations engaged in those activities. The National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA) was established in
July 1993 to implement the policy.
Apart from the FBSPMS, the structure of the seed industry has changed little since 1993. With support
from the project, the NSIA has been fully institutionalized. A regulatory framework has been established
through the seed proclamation 206/2000 of June 2000, and seed standards have been determined by the
Ethiopian standards authority. The NVRC, with a full-time secretary within the NSIA, has streamnlined
procedures to speed the flow of new planting materials to farmers. A national seed testing laboratory has
been established at the NSIA headquarters, staff have been trained, and operational protocols have been
developed. A formal certification process (initially for hybrid maize and wheat) to be operated by the
NSIA is planned for 2002. Preliminary studies and designs have been prepared with a view to establishing
local seed reserves for emergencies.
The project assisted four other govermment entities involved with the seed industry: EARO (breeder seed
production), the Alemaya University of Agriculture (breeder seed production, research and teaching
facilities), the Institute for Biodiversity Conservation and Research (IBCR) (conservation of landraces),
and the plant quarantine services within the crop production department of the ministry of agriculture.
These entities, together with the ministry of agriculture, participate in industry conmmittees.
National Seed Industry Agency
The NSIA has wide powers and responsibilities, ranging from developing seed regulations and standards,
ensuring that adequate seed reserves are maintained for emergencies, and generaEly fostering and promoting
the development of the seed industry. Originally headed by the National Seed Industry Council (comprised
of members from ten government ministries and agencies, Alemaya University, and supplementary
members to be elected by the council), the NSIA has been govemed since 1998 by a board whose members
are nominated by the government. The NSIA is responsible to the prime minister's office. Until the project
becarne effective in mid-1996, the NSIA had a small staff and little capacity. Currently, the NSIA
employees over 60 people at its headquarters in a building it shares with the National Fertilizer Industry
Agency. The project helped build capacity of the NSIA by providing it with 13 vehicles (five of which
were delivered in project year five), 37 computers, some office furniture, equipment for training, and a
generator.
The NSIA's board approved in December 2001 a new structure that includes four departments and four
services (see figure 1). Staff numbers are planned to grow to 104. Priority has been given to establishing
seed quality control and certification functions (see below). As the project closes, the information and
human resource development department is particularly weak; more than half of the staff are engaged in
support services under administration and finance. A management infornation system has still to be fully
commissioned.
The national seed testing laboratory at the NSIA headquarters is well equipped, employs some laboratory
staff who have been trained overseas, and will soon have an electronic database. The laboratory has the
capacity to test 3,000 samples per year, and currently tests 1,500-1,900 samples per year. It has yet to
- 63 -



commission most of the new equipment that arrived in 2000 due to problems with electricity supplies.
When the new equipment is installed, the laboratory will have the capacity to test 5,000 samples per year
(equivalent to 100,000 tons of seed per year), many more than are currently needed. Three
teams--laboratory, field inspection, and seed quality certification--have been established. All teams have
substantially fewer staff than planned (eight out of a planned 18).
Staff at all levels have benefited from substantial training, including overseas training. Participants have
passed on their knowledge for others through in-service training programs. Thus, substantial capabilities
for in-service training now exist within the NSIA.
Despite having excess laboratory capacity at headquarters, the NSIA is moving ahead with plans to
establish branch offices and minilabs at eight locations. Each will be staffed with a permanent NSIA
employee and with one or two seasonal workers who will assist with field checking.
Breeding and variety release
An objective of the project was to help imnprove the quality and quantity of breeder seed-a key bottleneck
in the national seed supply system--by providing formal training in seed technology, and by supplying
additional seed processing equipment and seed storage facilities at nine research centers (including eight
now managed by EARO and Alemaya University; Debre Zeit research center has been transferred from the
university to EARO).. The NSLA provided training in seed technology during the early years of project
implementation. However, most seed stores and processing equipment were not built or procured until near
the end of project implementation and many have yet to be commissioned or fu31y utilized, due to problems
with the designs, specifications, or other factors.
The quantity of breeder seed released from EARO to the ESE increased from six tons in 1996 to more than
15 tons in 2000. However, this is primarily because EARO must now produce a greater quantity of
breeder seed than previously before it can apply for varietal release, rather than because of project support.
EARO's national seed research and multiplication strategy of July 2000 still stated that "...at both breeder
and pre-basic seed stages, varieties in general lack genetic purity and in certain cases genetic stability."
While the concemed orgamzations welcome the support they have received from the project, much more
important to them have been major investments in agricultural research provided through the Bank-financed
agricultural training and research project. Initiated in 1998, the agricultural training and research project is
providing US$90 mnillion over a period of five years for capacity building, rehabilitation of existing
facilities, construction of new facilities, and development of management systems. This project could have
included support for seed breeding and technology, which may have resulted in more active follow-up of
issues of design, procurement, and commissioning. Gr.eater care should have been taken with the
specifications of equipment and buildings to be procured. The NSIA did not take advantage of the expert
technical assistance provided in the seeds systems development project for this purpose.
The NVRC, together with a mechanism for evaluating, releasing, and registering varieties, was initially
established in 1982. The committee revised its procedures and mechanisms in 1993 and again in 2001.
The technical committee of the NVRC (which focuses on breeding, agronomy, crop protection, economics,
seed technology, extension, and, from 2000, private sector development) evaluates potential varieties and
hybrids for general release to farmers. The process is time consuming, particularly for senior scientists on
the committee. Nevertheless, during 1996/97-2000/01, the committee evaluated over 230 applications, and
approved 90 varieties for fill release and 15 varieties for partial release, covering a total of 18 crops. To
speed the process of varietal release, the field trial process has been by compressed from six years to three
- 64 -



years. (As a special case, maize hybrids PHB30H83 and 30G97, tolerant to green leaf spot, were approved
after only two years of testing.) This faster process of release will increase the flow of new genetic
material to farmers. The agronomic characteristics of each recommended and new variety appear in the
annual crop variety register, which since 1998 has been produced and distributed by the NSIA. The project
has supported the work of publishing this register and other work of the NVRC by funding a full-time
secretary within the NSIA.
Members of Bank supervision missions have been concerned with Zambia's failure to enact a law
protecting plant breeder's rights. Discussion within the NSIA and relevant entities, including the science
and technology commission, is continuing. A draft document has been produced and is under review.
Early action is not probable, but delay is unlikely to significantly impede the development of the seed
industry in the near term, according to industry informants.
Quality control, certification and quarantine
Both before and after the NSIA was established, the ESE and the private seed company produced seed in
conformnity with their own internal quality standards. The seed quality control and certification department
of the NSIA has for about five years been independently monitoring through field inspections and testing of
samples production of basic and certified seed by ESE, the private company, and their outgrowers.
Inspection procedures for both hybrid/open pollinated and self-pollinated crops have been established since
2001. They are expected to be published once provisions for disease inspections have been decided. The
norm is for inspectors to visit hybrid maize fields four to five times (one at the vegetative stage, two to
three at the flowering stage, and once at the harvest/storage stage), and to visit wheat fields twice (at the
seed head emergence and harvest stages). They check seed samples from packaged lots (tef 10 tons, maize
and wheat 20 tons) for labeling for germination, moisture, 1,000 seed weight, and purity. If results of both
the NSIA and the ESE are satisfactory, the seed may be sold as labeled. This system, which assures that
seed is of the quality declared, appears to have worked well.
All commercial seed producers are now required by proclamation 206 of 2000 to be certified, along with
the seed they offer for sale. By April 2002, 13 applications for certificates of competence assurance had
been filed by seed producers (including one by the ESE). A formal national seed certification program will
be initiated in 2002, starting with wheat and hybrid maize. The Ethiopian standards authority has set
minimum cultivation standards (minimum isolation distance and rotation interval), and laboratory
standards (purity, presence of other crop and weed seed, presence of inert matter, presence of germinated
seeds, and maximum moisture content) for each crop and generation of seed (pre-basic, basic, certified, and
the like). Laboratory procedures are carried out in accordance with the definitive proceedings of the
International Seed Testing Association for laboratory testing of crop species. The NSIA may in future
charge a fee for certification. The NSIA is also still considering establishing rules for the minimum
production area eligible for certification. The NSIA does not currently plan to formally certify seed
produced by smallholders under the FBSPMS, even if that were logistically possible; the procedures will
apply to ESE, private companies, and their outgrowers only.
The certification process is essential to gain confidence of farmers and to encourage the longer term
development of the seed industry. The key to success will be to create a process that removes poorer
quality seed from the multiplication system, but also permits seed producers to make a profit. Current
standards seem to be appropriate and neither the ESE nor the contract growers have indicated that too high
a proportion of seed is being rejected and discarded.
The NSIA intends in 2002 to employ inspection staff based at eight branch offices in the four main
-65-



agricultural regions to complement the field inspection team at its headquarters. It will equip each branch
office with seed testing facilities in minilabs, currently under construction. However, plans to expand the
regional networks and to proceed rapidly with full seed certification should be reviewed considering that the
national extension program (the main market outlet for certified seed) is being reformulated, that the
demand for seed outside the program is likely to be limited, and that the ESE has suspended its outgrower
activities for 2002.
The plant quarantine service currently has three staff at it headquarters in the ministry of agriculture in
Addis Ababa, and 11 staff at its four out-stations in Dire Dawa, Nazaret, Moyale, and at Addis Ababa
airport. It focuses on import licensing, and appears to have no facilities to test imported materials for
diseases or pest infestations, nor for storing materials in reasonable conditions. The four regional
quarantine stations are under the authority of regional governments, but are linked to the federal
government. The plant quarantine service is currently controlled by the plant quarantine regulation 4 of
1992.
Dunng project negotiations, the plant quarantine service agreed to establish and implement uniform and
effective inspection and detection procedures before the end of June 1996 to minimize the risk of entry of
serious pests and diseases. It also agreed to streamline working procedures between headquarters and field
stations. However, it submitted draft procedures and guidelmes to the minister only in 2001. Other
institutions involved with import and export issues, such as the NSIA, EARO, and the IBCR, will need to
contribute towards the development of the procedures and guidelines once the minister has commented on
them. The project provided one vehicle and supported training for five staff, but the plant quarantine
service will need further support to adequately strengthen arrangements for plant quarantine.
Conservation and development of land races
A plant genetic resources center was created in 1976 to collect, conserve, document, and use the germplasm
resources of edible, economically important, and medicinally important plants. This center was
reestablished under proclamation 120 of 1998 as the IBCR Accountable to the board of EARO, the IBCR
is now responsible for the conservation and sustainable use of all Ethiopian biodiversity. The IBCR serves
as the regional coordinator for the African genetic resources network, and supplies breeding programs
throughout the world with germplasm from its accession collection, which now holds more than 100,000
multiplied and characterized samples.
Support to strengthen the IBRC was included m the project to encourage and enable smallholders in
marginal areas participating in the informal secondary seed multiplication scheme (as originally conceived)
to multiply landraces for farmer-to-farmer exchange. However, the FBSPMS that replaced the secondary
seed multiplication scheme concentrated on producing seed of improved varieties rather than traditional
landraces. Thus, the involvement of the IBCR in the project was marginalized.
Nevertheless, the IBRC has used the vehicles provided by the project to support its own farmer-based
approach to landrace conservation. The GEF/UNDP supported its approach from 1996-2000 through its
Dynamic Farmers-Based Approach to the In Situ Conservation of Ethiopia's Plant Genetic Resources
Project (ETH/93/G3 1). This project helped establish community gene banks in selected agroecological
zones through support for capacity building and development of infrastructure. This project is currently
operating in 12 woredas in the Oromia, Southern Nations and Nationalities People's, Amhara, and Tigray
regions. In selecting the locations, project designers gave priority to marginal areas where farmers grow
mainly introduced varieties rather than landraces (because of farmers' choices or of emergency seed
distribution). Both the 1BCR and the regional agricultural bureaus encourage smallholders to multiply'
- 66 -



local landraces that may be better able to withstand drought and other climatic conditions typical of
Ethiopia than introduced varieties. This project, which is reaching over 3,000 participants through crop
conservation associations, may provide valuable lessons for development of informal seed multiplication
systems elsewhere. Further funding has been requested from GEF but is not yet secured.
However, the IBCR benefited little from the seed systems development project. First, the 1BCR decided
that various equipment to be supplied under the project was unnecessary. Then, it decided not to procure
proposed equipment for the storage and drying rooms, once the World Bank denied its request to procure
the equipment from a previous supplier as this conflicted with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
National seed reserve stock
The NSIA is responsible for maintaining reserve stocks of seed for emergencies. The national seed reserve
stocks were intended to ensure that minimum seed supplies were available to farmers in drought-prone
areas in seasons following crop failure. The project-supported study to present options for creating a
national seed reserve stock scheme was not completed until November 1998, because the ministry of
agriculture and others were undertaking other related studies during the early years of project
implementation. Building on an earlier FAO study, the Bank-supported study proposed establishing
reserves of some 6,400 tons of seed to be stored in 26 woredas, purchasing seed of the major cereals
locally, and revolving the stock by regularly selling supplies and replacing them with new ones (FAO, Seed
Security Reserve Stock Feasibility Study, July 1994). It also recommended arrangements for organization
and management. Designs for six stores were completed in 2000/01. Provisions for their construction
were made through an amendment in February 2001 to the Development Credit Agreement. However, no
contracts have been signed. Meanwhile, over 4,000 tons of seed have been procured with project support
for drought-prone areas (mainly from ESE in 1999, 2000, and 2001). The seed has reportedly been
distributed to regional agricultural bureaus and then onwards to drought-affected areas, but the NSIA has
no details of the distribution.
Training and promotion
As the major agricultural training university in Ethiopia, the Alemaya University of Agriculture had in the
mid-1990s few appropriately trained staff or facilities to offer seed technology training to undergraduates.
The project funded overseas academic training in seed technology for faculty, and laboratory and other
equipment. While the laboratory has been fully commissioned and is being used for undergraduate and
postgraduate student courses, commissioning of equipment has proved problematic. The project did not
fund short faculty visits for seed technology, as originally planned.
As required under its mandate, the NSIA has taken a leading and active role in organizing training in seed
production, processing, packaging and storage, and a range of other activities. It has also conducted
workshops and seminars for both government staff and private sector participants and has organized
training of trainers courses. It has coordinated and organized training and promotional events. It has even
on occasion provided trainers from its own staff. The ESE, too, has during the past few years stepped up
its extension and promotional work. Extension staff at its processing centers demonstrate and promote use
of seed of improved varieties. The EBCR is responsible for promoting landraces.
Conclusions
The project was intended to promote the development of seed producers and distributors to meet a large and
unfulfilled demand from smallholders for seed of improved varieties. In fact, the ESE is likely to continue
- 67 -



providing most certified seed for open-pollinated crops. The demand for certified seed is likely to decline
if, as expected, the extension program reorients its work away from promoting wheat and maize towards
promoting more traditional crops.
Nevertheless, the NSIA has been established to regulate and oversee the provision of seed, at whatever
scale. It has successfully established procedures for quality control and a framework for certification.
However, regulations generally apply primarily to large-scale producers, not to smallholder producers. A
durable framework for promoting local initiatives for small-scale seed production and exchange does not
yet exist. The expected decline in 2002 in institutional demand for improved varieties of seed will provide
the NSIA with an opportunity to review its future seed supply strategy. Revising priorities and reducing
the scale of proposed and perhaps existing facilities to meet expected future demand would be wise, given
shifting priorities of the extension program.
The respective roles and responsibilities of the NSIA and the regional agricultural bureaus with respect to
quality control and certification is not yet clear. In the future, the NSIA may wish to assist regional
agricultural bureaus to develop strategies that would include balanced development of both landraces and
improved varieties adapted to local conditions. It may also consider building links between the
farmer-based program of the IBRC and the national seed reserve stock scheme. Finally, it may develop
with EARO an agreed approach to conserve breeder seed stocks, and with the ESE an approach to
conserve basic seed stocks.
- 68 -



Figure 1 OrganizatIon Structuro, Proposed (and Actual) Staffing of National Soed industry Agency (April 20002)
Board of NSIA
I
General Manaqer 3(3)
Project Coordination
and Monitoring Unit
| Finance and  |                                            |   Public Relation and
Administration                                                     Training Service
Service 42(34)                                                         5(2)
Finance                                                                     Legal Service
Division                                                              l3(0)l
|   Audit and Inspection
Service 2(0)
Seed Quality Control    Information and                            Seed Standard and               Plannng and
and Certification     Human Resource                              Quality Promotion              Programming
Dept 22(11         I Dev Dept 8(2)                                 Det.83                       Det.96
Labortory                  Information &               Vanety Release &                Programming &
|_Team      |         _    Documentaton                Registration Team                Budget Team
Team                  Human Resource                 Standard and                    Planning &
Development                     Quality                     Policy Team
Seed Quality          _    _Team                       Promotion Team
Certificabon_
Teaml
Branch Offices 2(1)
Coordinating Service
Branch      Branch         Branch         Branch           Branch        Branch        Branch         Branch       Branch
O|fice      Office         Office      L  Office           Office      I Office I   I  Office         Office       Office
-69 -



Additional Annex 11. Map of activities of the ETHIOPIA: Seed Systems Development
Project
Location of SSDP Interventions ESE Installations and Woredas Most Vulnerable to Chronic Food Insecurity
A M    j  RK''6.
AFA R   *                     rnlbo.<t
B > *   (DstoutasxIIzbic) /                     O~~~~~~~~~ ion  200 K.
( D
TIGRAq *nr S.b r 19RA
1  AMHA~~~~~~~?A~~~~~                  -   R.gionoI ~~~T=V von
A F0 -
SNNPR                                                  D.,
SOMALI           I W.2.
(T   .-d~Ibk))  0  P,op~..d ESE 8-   Offi..
R  ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   AP-,pO.d S..d ME.,h,-. -d ?-- S.-
Ai   U.~ ..i o-nd EARO P-hool C.n~.
Mop1.qU Sot  ooVb. U1999                                                   d   SD
70-



Additional Annex 12. Summary of Borrower's ICR
National Agricultural Input Authority
3.5., Para. 3 and 4, Page 7
It looks harsh to rate quality at entry as unsatisfactory due to an overestimation of costs and the
methodology used in calculating the ERR as the implementation and achievements of the Project did not
suffer from these flaws.
4.1., Para. 1, Page 8
...." The linkage between extension and credit stifled the development of the retail input sector": The
importance of the national agricultural extension program, which was focused on increased agricultural
productivity and production with the ultimate goal of improving food security and reducing poverty, can
not be overemphasized. In the absence of any retail input sector, the role of DAs in the coordination of
agricultural input distribution and credit provision was unavoidable. Since the reality on the ground at that
critical time forced DAs to be involved, the intervention should not be misunderstood as though the
Government wished to continue as agricultural input distributor and credit provider. The linkage between
extension and inputs and credit, although cumbersome and unsustainable, ensured adequate and timely
supply of inputs and credit to farmers interested and participated in the national agricultural extension
program. What stifled the development of the
retail input sector can not be claimed to be the indicated linkage, but may be low level of awareness,
inadequate capital base, etc.
4.1., Para. 5, Page 8
... "Thus, the IFBSPMS can be considered more as a grain producing program than a seed
producing program": The scheme produced seed and therefore it is a seed producing program.
The major problem faced, which was not anticipated until later during the implementation
process, was marketing. This problem was further aggravated by drought, and lower grain prices.
....This suggests that farmers are increasingly able to meet their needs for varieties currently
available through other sources or that farmers are concerned about quality of seed produced under
the FBSPMS: Fanner to farmer exchanges of seed decreased during the last seasons of the project, not
because of concern about quality but due to less interest in the use of improved seed as a result of drought
and lower grain prices.
4.2., Para3, Page 9
Thus, it is estimated that some 27,000 tones (or 58 percent) of cerffied seed, grown firom basic seed
provided by the ESE, has been directly consumed rather than used as planting material: Although the
plan was to supply basic seed, this has never been achieved due to shortage of basic seed. Hence most of
the seed farmers received was C1, and what they have produced was C2 , which is different from basic
seed.
Credit recovery rates slumped from 85% in the early years to 10% in project year 4 and to virtually
nothing in project year 6 as cereal prices declined: This is not a true reflection of the overall situation as
-71 -



it probably refers to pockets and a certain time of a year.
4.2, Para 3, Page 10
.... As a result valuable basic seed served as food rather than planting material: Most of the seed
farmers received, under FBSPMS, was Cl to produce C2. This is just to indicate the generation difference,
but not to say C2 was not a valuable material.
4.2, Para. 4, Page 11
The output of this sub-component is rated unsatisfactory: NSIA has done all that were envisaged in the
SARJDCA regarding the private sector development. Achievements include: workshops for creating
awareness; trainings in seed technology; advisory services whenever required; techno-economic feasibility
and TA requirements studies carried out; study tours conducted locally and overseas. As a result, five
private participants independently grow seed out of which three are
involved in the production of hybrid maize and more than 26 participate as contractual seed growers and
more than 18 private sector participants received the Competence Assurance Certificate for production,
processing and distribution.
4.2, Para 5, Page 11
... (Clients of the extension program may take the company's lines instead of ESE's and many do,
even though they cost more): This is not a fair statement as clients, in fact, buy more of BH 660, which
is produced by ESE. In some areas where a growing season is short and the company has made a better
promotional work, clients may take more of PHB 3253 than BH 540 and BH 140 (ESE's seed). Hence the
above statements need to be modified, if need be, or removed altogether from the text.
4.2., Para. 7, Page 11
.... Further, input credit is handled exclusively through the extension services and cooperatives at the
exclusion of private seed producers, the same issue that has bedeviled the fertilizer input: Please refer
to 4.1., Para.l, Page 8.
4.2., Para. 3, Page 12
It has yet to commission most of the new equipment that arrived in 2000 due to problems with
electricity supplies: This is not true as electricity is not a problem. Equipment is all functional and in use,
except two that require calibration.
.... All teams have substantially fewer staff than planned (8 out of a planned 18): It is 11 out of the
planned 18.
5.3., Page 16.
.... Limited interest of the NSIA hindered efforts to help develop the capacity of cooperatives and
cooperative unions to participate in local seed multiplication schemes: It is not a matter of limited
interest. Cooperatives and cooperative unions were not covered in the project as they did not exist at the
time the project was designed. In what way and by what means could NSIA develop their capacities?
- 72 -



5.4., dot 1., Page 17
The 12 mini-labs planned for the NSILA and the six stores planned for the national seed reserve as
agreed under the February 2001 amendment to the Development Credit Agreement were not
constructed: The construction of eight mini-labs have been completed using Government budget. NSIA
with the intention of buying time contracted the seed laboratories construction through short listing
although the construction cost was more than USD 100, 000.
6.2., Para. 1, Page 19
.... However, due to the collapse of grain prices and uncertainty about the future of NIEIP, the
regional agricultural bureaus have not prepared plans in 2002 to take over these esponsibilities: ESE
and regions have planned and carried out seed production under the scheme although in smaller scale.
6.2., Para. 2., Page 19
.... Assigning 22 pick ups: They are already distributed to be used by the 8 mini seed laboratories and
regional agricultural bureaus.
6.2., Para3, Page 19
... It established in July 2002 a new agency (the national agricultualb inputs agency): The name of the
new organization is the National Agricultural Input Authority (NAIA).
7.3., Para. 2, Page 21
The Bank's overall performance is rated as unsatisfactory: The Bank initiated the Seed Project and also
provided the project preparation facility (PPF) to be used for the project design. The project was appraised
in 1992 and reappraised in 1994 by the Bank. SAR and DCA which were the guide instruments to
implement SSDP were also prepared by the Bank. The persistence and close follow-up of IDA's
supervision missions highly contributed to the establishment of the regular reporting system of the national
seed industry in the country.
IDA followed meticulously the various studies recommended in the SAR and DCA as a result of which
many have been studied and even implemented. IDA was also responsible for "no objections" and
replenishments of special accounts. Moreover IDA's performance in strengthening and development of
human resources in the seed industry cannot be overemphasized. IDA's contributions in supporting the two
components of SSDP now resulted in a well established national seed industry. The Bank's perfornance,
when seen from this angle, should be rated satisfactory.
7.6., Para.1, Page 21
Project implementation also suffered from the failure of the NSIA to replace the project coordinator
when he left in mid-2000: This position was not left vacant; instead of recruiting a new staff and injecting
a new blood into the ongoing project, it was found more useful to assign a department head to coordinate
the project. Training efforts and achievements showed significant improvements; procurements of goods
and services similarly showed improvements in terms of quality and timeliness. The overall project
-73-



implementation went on showing improvements as more
experiences were accumulated and did not suffer because of not recruiting new staff outside of NSLA.
7.6., Para 2, Page 21
.... Its implementation completion report however did not provide the necessary information for
evaluating project performance: NSIA's ICR of June 2002 gave the necessary information in a summary
form while that prepared by the consultant have presented the necessary data.
7.7., Para. 1, Page 22
..., reduced the effectiveness of the subcomponent to reach smallholder farmers in remote areas with
improved seeds and cultivars: This is not wholly true as the scheme has both formal and informal natures
and its coverage extended far deep into remote areas like Gambella and Benshangul Gumuz Regions.
8.0., Para.1, Page 23
.... NSIA made very little effort through this project for true private sector involvement, as it either
produced seeds through the ESE or supported with a guaranteed market production by farmers
under the FBSPMS: NSIA was not expected to produce seed through ESE, FBSPMS, and the private
sector. Its role was more of facilitating their efforts and activities. NSIA has fulfilled its roles in this regard.
February 28, 2003
- 74 -






ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE)
, \-@;- ; . .-1- RED ' Current and Proposed Seed Production and Processing Facilities
-16                                    ERITREA                -SEA                     S    ESE PROCESSING FACILITIES AND STORES  16'
/          UA  , i q- , .;   * ESE STORES
A    ESE BASIC SEED FARMS
(                                                       0 9   t; S  !\   D   ESEPOSSIBLE EXPANSION AREAS
;   j\,        <       . ,,! :   -.\         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(plants and stores subled to feasibility study)
|  !   \  -       -   C      r a l        o~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS 
- 4        UDA                               TIGRAY      \.M                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL   
SUDAN\                        <   *.".,r' -     -   STATES (Unofficial 1994 bc'urda' e .)
/^ < MEKELE                              \ \ \ ~ -   INTERNATIONAL BOUND RIES
El O      }       \   \  }  '  \        The St(at  igionr  mesare per Article 47
,_ p GONDER                                              ot \onsituitotof Ethop...
/  A)                   )                     >-[ a~LAE  L                   GULF.OF
-12-        tE   4         )~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~TANA  WLI  AFAR  j   --              ADEN               12-
;   BAHIR DAX   AMHARA            ,    z        DJI      I            .
BENtAtGUR             >   ~~~~~~~~~~~~KOMBOLCHA|  tLke Abe 
t  S \     <    MAR~KOS,(*,)                  (          -       \
; ~~~~~ ADDIS                  krU    IgHAbRAR         
| I   NEKEMPTI  ABABAa      } Nf       HARAR4)
/R4Oa, 60  GMBELEMSOL)AL
, S O~~~~~~~METU                 EYAO(J 
G            BE                                                                                                  7 
The boundaries, cotorsX.  SEPRA    ARB      A    DODA                                                    /      SOMALIA
rdenominatons and ony     ,      MINCH    La    , e                \    SSee 
6' other information shown         MN                                                                                           1
on  th1s  map  do  not  .
imply,, an  the  part of  0           -     y
The World Barnk Group,  V
any judgment on the legal
status  of  any  territory,               M
or any endorsement
or arccepIance of such
>   o                 -iidaresK                                                           E /'  KILOMETERS  0  50  100  150  200  250  300  350  400  C1
MILES  0  50  0oo   150   200  250  4 
UGANDA                        TURKANA 4- 44-                                                          46'









Report No.:       25639
Type: ;



