Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13739-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 24, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Birr
US$1.0 = Birr 6.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AIDB               -         Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
AISCO              -        Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
AUA                -         Alemaya University of Agriculture
APWP               -        Annual Procurement Work Program
CBE                -         Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
CSA                -        Central Statistical Authority
GDP                -        Gross Domestic Product
ERRP               -         Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project
ESE                -         Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (earlier Corporation)
EU                 -         European Union
FAO                -        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GM                 -         General Manager
IAR                -         Institute of Agricultural Research
ICB                -         Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR                -        Implementation Completion Report
IDA                -        Intemational Development Association
IMF                -        Intemational Monetary Fund
LCB                -        Local Competitive Bidding
MIS                -         Management Information System
MOA                -        Ministry of Agriculture
NGOs               -        Non-Govermmental Organizations
NSIA               -        National Seed Industry Agency
NSIC               -         National Seed Industry Council
NSIP               -        National Seed Industry Policy
NVRC               -         National Variety Release Committee
PADEP              -         Peasant Agriculture Development Project
PCMU               -         Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PGRC               -         Plant Genetics Resource Center
PIC                -        Project Implementation Committee
PIP                -         Project Implementation Plan
PPR                -         Procurement Progress Report
PQS                -         Plant Quarantine Services
SC                 -         Service Cooperative
SOE                -        Statement of Expenditure
SSDP               -        Seed Systems Development Project
SSMS               -         Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme
TA                 -         Technical Assistance
TGE                -        Transitional Govemment of Ethiopia
USAID              -         United States Agency for International Development
Ethiopian Fiscal Year: July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
CRE DIT AND PRIECT SUMMARY ...................................................... ,               ,.,.,.,.,.,.,.i
1. BACtKGR     O.ND. .............................................   ,                      ,                             I
AZ. P'roject Or!gln.
B. Tle Macro Setti.                                                                ..
C. T'he Agricultural Sector.2
D. IDA's Agricultural Portfolio and Future Strategy.....................24
11. THE SEED SECTOR ......................................... ,   ,.                                               .5
A. Introduction.5
B. Historical Development.5
C. Policy Framework. 6
D. Current Status of the Seed Sector.6
E. Key Institutional Issues.10
1. Lessons Tearned.12
G,. Design Considerations for the Seed Project.13
H-. Rationale for IDA Involvement.13
111. THE PROJECT.IS
A. Project Objective and Componentss]15
B.    Seed  Policy   Reor.m.5 ............................................. 5
C Detailed Project Components.16
Component I --Seed Enterprise Developmentt.16
Component 11--Capacity Buildingg.19
IV. TllE PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT.22
A. Project Costs.22
Bs. Project Financing.,.23
C.  Procurement.24......................................6
D. Disbursement and Special Account.27
E. Accounts and Audit.2S
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.29
A. Organization and Overall Responsibility. 29
B. Project Implementation Plan ..................... . . . . .  .    . .       .       ..       .    .    .29
This report is based on the findings of an IDA reappraisal mission (July, 1994) and reports and clarification received from the Government until
September 30. 1994. The reappraisal mission, which visited Ethiopia, comprised Messrs. Amar Jit S. Sodhi, (Senior Operations Officer and Mission
Leader); Loren20 Marchesini, Economist-cum-Financial Analyst; S. S. Bal, consultant on Seed Technology and Seed Production Systems; V. P. Singh,
consultant on Seed Processing, Storage and Transportation; R. M. Arora, consultant on Seed Marketing; Berhane Manna, consultant on Policy and
Institutional Issues. In addition, Mr. Lorenzo Marchesini and Ms. Donna Criddle provided the back-up support at Headqu.arters, as the mission leader
was operating from the Resident Mission in Addis Ababa. Messrs. J. Srivastava (AGRTN) and V. Venkatesan (AFTES) were the peer reviewers. Ms.
Sushma Ganguily and Mr. Michael F. Carter are the Managing Division Chief and Acting Department Director respectively for the operation.



Page No.
VI. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ......................................................                                   32
A. Financial Aspects ......................................................                                                       32
B. Economic Aspects ......................................................                                                        35
C. Project Benefits and Sutainabilityv......................................................                                     37
D.   P roj ec t Risks                                                                            ...................................................... 37
E. Environmental Aspects ........................... 38
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ......................................................                                                  39
TABLES IN THE TEXT
Table 1.1  Ethiopia - Agricultural Portfolio
Table 4.1  Project Costs Summary
Table 4.2  Project F inancing Plan
Table 4.3  Procurement Arrangements
Table 4.4  Summary Disbursement Schedule
Table 6.1  Value Cost Ratio of Improved Seed
Table 6.2  Economic Costs ofthe Project
Table 6.3  Benefits from Improved Seed
Table 6.4  Net Cash Flow
Figure I  ETHIOPIA: Long-Term Foodgrain Production and Consumption Trends
ANNEXES
1.         Pilot Initiative: Private Sector Development
2.         Terms of Reference for Seed Reserve Stock Scheme Study
3.         Project Costs Summary by Components, Financiers and Years
4.         Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.         Procurement Arrangements and Disbursement Schedule for the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
6.         Financial Analysis for the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
7.         NSIA Organization Chart
8.         Technical Assistance and Training
9.         Project Implementation Plan
- Attachment I        Project Implementation Schedule
- Attachment 2        Key Monitorable Indicators
- Attachment 3        Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme - Training Program Outline
10.        Supervision Plan
It.        Procurement Packages
12.        Economic Aspects
13.        Environmental Impact
14.        Documents in Project File
Map        IBRD No. 26603R
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise - Current and Proposed Seed Production and Processing Facilities



ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowcr:                     The Transitional Government of Ethiopia
lmplementing Agency:          National Sced Industry Agency (NS1A,
Beneficiary:                  Governmient. the Ethiopian  Seed  Enterprise, the Private Sector Seed
Enterprises and Peasant (Smallholder) Farmers
Poverty:                      Not Applicable
Amount:                        SDR 15.2 Million (US$22.0( millioni equivalent)
Tcrms:                         Standard, witlh 40 ycars maturitv
Commitment Fec:               0.50% on undisbursed credit balanices, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
On-lending Terms:             TGE to on-lend US$5.6 million from the IDA credit to the Ethiopian Seed
Enterprise (ESE) at an interest rate of 14%. repayment in 10 years. and without
grace period: ESE would bear thc foreign exchange risk
Financing Plan:               See para 4.2 to para 4.5 and Table 4.2
Net Present Value:            US$68 million (discounted at 10%)-, Economic Rate of Return 36%
Mal):                         IBRD No. 26603






ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1. 1    The Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) requested IDA assistance in financing the proposed Seed
Systems Development Project. as a part of its efforts to modernize the agriculture sector. and alleviate growing
food security concerns. The Project was appraised in February/March 1992 and re-appraised in July/August 1994.
B. The Macro Setting
1.2    Ethiopia, with a population of 54.8 million, is Sub-Saharan Africa's second most populous country. Its
social indicators are among the lowest in the world: very low per capita GNP of US$125 per year, high infant
mortality rate of 122 per 1,000 live births, mortality rate of over 20 percent for children under five, and growing
chronic protein energy malnutrition. According to TGE's Rural Nutrition survey (1992), 64 percent of the children
are stunted and 47 percent are underweight. Only 17 percent of the children complete four years of primary school
against the regional and global averages of 48 and 68 percent. respectively.
1.3    Some 60 percent of the urban population lives below the poverty level. The estimated average per capita
calorie intake is below 80 percent of the level considered necessary for a healthy life. The country's structural food
deficit, presently estimated to be around one million tons. is anticipated to grow steadily, unless specific actions are
taken, aimed at improving productivity in the primarv agricultural sector. In the last two decades, annual
population growth averaged about 3 percent, and is projected in the 1993 World Development Report at 2.7
percent until the turn of the century.
1.4    The country suffers from severe port and transport capacity constraints. With Eritrea's independence in
May 1993, Ethiopia lost its two ports, Assab and Massawa, and became landlocked. Although an agreement
between the two countries (July 1993) provides Ethiopia an unhindered access to Assab and Massawa, the severe
capacity constraints are not likely to permit a significant increase in dry cargo (food and fertilizer) imports. In
addition. there are serious transportation constraints aggravated by the inadequacy and poor state of its roads.
Ethiopia's road density is among the lowest in Africa, standing at 20 km per 1,000 km sq. and 0.4 km per 1,000
population. Some 80 percent of Ethiopians depend on traditional means of transport, such as walking, carrying
their goods on the back and head, on pack animals and, to a lesser extent, on animal drawn carts. Household food
security, in dispersed, difficult to reach and mountainous locations, where much of the population resides, is a
matter of growing concern.
1.5    The Ethiopian political and economic structures have been subject to repeated and profound changes
during the past two decades. The 1974 revolution ended an era of monarchy and feudalism; it replaced market
mechanisms with state planning and controls over investment, production and trade, stifled private
entrepreneurship, and diverted resources to the conduct of civil war, which virtually crippled the economy. The
socialist military regime was defeated in May 1991, and a National Conference, comprising a coalition of 29
parties, ethnic and linguistic groups, installed a Transitional Government (TGE) in June 1991. TGE is in the
process of introducing new economic and administrative structures and a democratic political system.
1.6    Market-oriented Economic System: In November 1991, TGE announced Ethiopia's Economic Policy
during the Transitional Period, which signaled a move away from the centrally planned economy towards a more
liberal, market oriented and decentralized economic system, in which private, rather than collective, ownership
would dominate most sectors of the economy and efficiency would be stimulated by competition and increased
international openness. In the meantime, to jump-start the economy, an Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction
Project (ERRP), Cr. 2351-ET, was launched in July 1992 in cooperation with other donors, involving a total



-2-
provision of about US$650 million to be disbursed in two and half years. ERRP, due to close in September 1995.
has been satisfactorily implemented.
1.7    TGE's first phase of economic reform aimed at increasing domestic resource mobilization, reducing the
fiscal deficit, correcting price distortions, and reducing the external account deficit. The most significant reform
was a 59 percent devaluation of the Birr (in US dollars terms) in October 1992 and the introduction of a limited bi-
weekly foreign exchange auction system in May 1993--a move towards a market-determined rate of exchange.
Other important reforms are aimed at improving incentives for production, competitiveness of markets, and private
sector performance. These efforts have been supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2526-ET) funded by
IDA and other donors. TGE has also reached agreements with the Bank and IMF on the next phase of reform
presented in the Third Policy Framework Paper negotiated in September 1994 for the period 1994-95 to 1996-97.
A public expenditure review (1994) by IDA confirms TGE commitment to a policy which shifts the weight of
investment, and management of the productive sectors, from the state to the private sectors. The economy has
responded positively to these reforms. Real GDP grew by 12.3 percent in FY93, compared to a -3.2 percent in
FY92. Exports increased sharply, balance of payments improved, and foreign exchange reserves have increased,
whereas the gap between the official foreign exchange auction rate and parallel rate has narrowed to less than 15
percent. Domestic inflation decreased to less than 10 percent from an average of 15.7 percent in the preceding
three years, and is now projected at about 5 percent per year after FY95.
1.8    Decentralized Administrative System: In order to provide a sound basis for grass roots economic
growth with the people's participation. TGE had divided the country into 14 regions; however, the newly adopted
constitution by the Constituent Assembly divides the country into nine states. namely Tigray, Afar, Amhara,
Oromia, Somali, Benishangul, Southern Nation, Gambella and Harrar.  These state governments will have
legislative, executive and judicial powers in respect to all matters within their geographical areas except certain
subjects where the Central Government alone would have power. In order to implement the new arrangements, a
massive shift of staff from the Central Government to various regions is under way.
1.9    Such simultaneous handling of profound systemic changes in the economic, political, administrative and
institutional structures of Ethiopia is an effort of unprecedented magnitude. Inevitably, it will take time to fully
establish effective organizational structures and functional relationships to sustain a high level of economic
performance in a democratic political environment.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.10    Sectoral Contribution: The agriculture sector is the leading sector in the Ethiopian economy; it accounts
for 55 percent of GDP at factor costs, employs 80 percent of the labor force, generates 60 percent of commodity
export earnings., in which coffee alone accounts for 60 percent, and provides raw materials for 70 percent of the
country;s large and medium-sized industries that are agro-based. Crop production is estimated to contribute
around 60 percent, livestock around 30 percent, and forestry and other sectors around 10 percent of the total
sectoral output. Over six million (estimated) smallholders, cultivating about six to seven million hectares of land,
follow a traditional, low input-low output rainfed farming technology and account for about 96 percent of
agricultural output., including 98 percent of the coffee. The balance is produced on state farms and by other public
agricultural enterprises. Depending on the crop situation, only about 20 to 30 percent of the cereal production
comes to the local market.
1.11    Sectoral Performance: The performance of the agriculture sector in the last two decades has been poor.
While the economy grew at 2.2 percent during the last 18 years, the annual agricultural growth averaged around
only 1I.1 percent. The area under crops, as well as the overall production, has remained stagnant for several years,
barring certain exceptional years like 1983 and 1989. Crop productivity has also remained low at average per
hectare yields of 1.2 tons for food grains, 0.6 tons for pulses and 0.5 tons for oilseeds, compared to relatively much
higher yields (more than double in many cases) obtained at research stations and in demonstrations conducted at



-3-
farm level. As a result, barring the exceptional year of 1983, the country has been a net importer of foodgrains
since 1981. The level of foodgrain imports required to meet the country's deficit rose from three percent of the
total grain consumption in the early 1980s to about 10 percent in 1990.  In addition, according to Central
Statistical Authority (CSA) 1989 Agricultural Sample Survey, 46.7 percent of 6.09 million households (excluding
Eritrea, Tigray, Assab and Ogaden region) have holdings which average less than 0.5 ha each; cumulatively 72.1
percent have holdings less than one hectare (average size of holding being 0.73 ha) Further, assuming a family
size of five and normal cereal productivity, a tqpical farm household may need about 0.75 ha of land to obtain a
food supply of about 0.9 tons per annum to stay above the absolute poverty line. Based on this criteria, over 60
percent of the rural households may be in absolute poverty.
1.12 Other Causes of Poor Sectoral Performance: These include: (a) inadequate research and extension
support; (b) virtual stagnation of crop production technology at primitive levels, except very limited introduction of
modern inputs like fertilizer, and to a very limited extent, seeds of improved varieties; (c) recurrent droughts,
limited area under irrigation (less than three percent of the total area) despite significant potential; and (d)
declining soil fertility due to overgrazing, reduced fallow, and very rapid deforestation (from 16 percent in the
early 1950s to only 2.7 percent in 1989). Even though some useful work has been done by the Ethiopian
agricultural research system in the development and release of improved crop varieties, farmers' access to seeds of
genetically superior varieties remains very poor. In fact, a recent meeting of international agricultural research
centers with the World Bank (October 1994) came to the conclusion that the most critical constraint to widespread
adoption of improved technologies, particularly the disease-resistant, high yielding varieties, was the poor capacity
within the country for producing and multiplying the improved seeds or planting materials.
1.13    Source of Growth:  TGE's recent agricultural strategy identifies two main sources of growth in
agricultural output: (a) increase in smallholder crop productivitv, and (b) area expansion through (i) extensive
mechanized farming; and (ii) intensive commercial agriculture.
1.14    Area Expansion: The scope of increasing area under crops in the central highlands, where much of
agriculture is currently practiced, is severely limited due to growing population pressure combined with the largest
livestock herd in Africa. Land scarcity has led to the increase of cropped area at the expense of both fallow and
grazing, with crops being grown on more marginal, steep and poorly drained lands which are susceptible to
erosion. It would, therefore, be necessary for cropped area expanslon to move to lower elevations, mostly in the
west and south of the country where population density is much lower. However, this would entail considerable
amount of lead time and investment, as these areas are generally: (a) uninhabited or have sparse population;
(b) malaria infested and tsetse fly infested; (c) lacking in minimum infrastructure like roads, clinics, banks,
electricity, potable water, schools, telecommunications; and (d) deprived of access to cheap labor due to absence of
housing and other facilities. Further, the environmental impact of sudden opening of large areas of land combined
with new human settlements would need careful study. The sociological aspects of settling people in other regions
would also need to be addressed. Area expansion would, therefore, be only a medium to long-term option and
would not significantly address the problem of rising food shortages in the next few years.
1.15    Yield Enhancement: The only available short term alternative to meet the critical need for increased
foodgrains production is by increasing land productivity. There are several mutually reinforcing ways of achieving
enhanced productivity levels in agriculture. These include widespread use of improved seeds, better cultural
practices, site-specific solutions to low productivity through intensive research and extension work, minimization
of post harvest losses, greater and more efficient use of chemical and organic fertilizers, and more efficient pest
management techniques. However, given the current situation in Ethiopia, under which: (a) the entire public
administration system is being revamped; (b) the agricultural research and extension system is being reviewed for
thorough reform; (c) work on site-specific crop productivity problems is yet to commence; (d) the domestic
manufacture and commercial sale of improved agricultural implements and thrashers has not commenced; (e) the
important institution of rural cooperatives needs to be virtually re-created under the new cooperative law; (f) the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE), the two
primary institutions for rural credit, are being restructured and re-capitalized; and (g) the state farms, mainly
responsible for limited seed production, are being downsized and commercialized, it would be difficult to expect



-4-
synergistic contributions from several of these options at least for the next few years. Nevertheless, it is possible to
begin with some specific initiatives which would progressively draw support from the above-mentioned
institutional and other improvements.
1.16    Figure I in the section on Annexes depicts a 20-year scenario of food production and consumption needs
from 1974 to 1994. The country's food deficit which started in 1981 is now around one million tons of foodgrains
per year. What is of greater concern is the projection that by 1999, Ethiopian's gross foodgrains requirement will
increase by 2.35 million tons over the 1994 estimated levels. In this context, it would be prudent for the
Government to launch some basic initiatives to provide agriculture support services to farmers, which would
include adequate and satisfactory input supplies of seeds and fertilizer, combined with a strengthened extension
service. The Government is already working in this direction. A task force set up in August 1994, is exploring
ways of (a) upgrading the skills of extension agents through well-focused training programs; and (b) ensuring
timely and adequate supplies of agricultural inputs-particularly improved seeds and fertilizers-to the farmers.
D. IDA's Agricultural Portfolio and Future Strategy
1.17    IDA's Existing Portfolio: IDA's existing agricultural portfolio is rather thin, and comprises two Projects
only. One project in agricultural research and one project in forestry have closed in June 1994, while one in
livestock closed in December of 1994. There has been no new IDA lending for the agriculture sector since 1989.
IDA efforts have mainly concentrated on policy dialogue, sector work (in areas of food security, poverty alleviation
and forestry sector) and the strengthening of the future pipeline. Since TGE came into office in mid-1991, the
Bank has reviewed ongoing operations with a view to restructuring projects established under the previous regime,
and freeing up resources for deployment in support of speedy economic recovery operations, and in realigning the
project designs with the Governments' new economic management and development vision. IDA has also
proposed further sector work to TGE.
Table 1.1
Ethiopia - Agricultural Portfolio
(Amounts in US$ millions)
Disbursed as
Project         Credit       Effective         Closing Date        Credit    of Dec. 31,      %
No.          Date                                Amount       1994       Disbursed
Original     Latest
Small-Scale Irrigation  1765      Oct. 1987   Dec. 1993    Dec. 1995      7.0         2.6          37
PADEPI            1956       Apr.1989    Jun.1995     Jun.1995       85.0        74.8          88
Total                                                         92.0        77.4          84
1.18    IDA's Lending Pipeline in the Agriculture Sector: In addition to focusing on improved implementation
of the existing portfolio, the pipeline includes one project on fertilizer sector development and one on seed systems
development, to provide an efficient input supply service to agriculture. A third, Agricultural Support Services
Project, to focus on agricultural research and extension, is under discussion with TGE; the latter project would be
the continuation and expansion of earlier efforts under the recently completed (June, 1994) Agricultural Research
Project (Cr. 1521-ET), intended to develop new technologies that can increase crop yields and ensure their
effective dissemination through a nationwide extension service. Two other Projects, namely the Bio-diversity
Conservation, and the Natural Resource Management Project, are likely to be funded by Global Eenvironment
Facility and donors, respectively.



-5-
H. THE SEED SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.1    Role of Seed in Agriculture: Seed is a basic input in crop production. It is also the cheapest input in
agriculture, yet it has the most profound influence on crop yields. The productivity of a crop is directly linked to
the genetic potential of the seed used, and varies according to the use of recommended complementary inputs and
the observance of cultural practices. Further, since seed production is a biological phenomenon, it is characterized
by an inflexible time lag which is required to multiply a small quantity of breeder seed into large quantities for
commercial sale through a multi-stage production process over successive crop seasons. These stages are usually
described as pre-basic, basic and commercial seed production. Also, since seed is a living organism, subject to the
phenomena of aging, decay and death, it needs sensitive care in handling, storage and transportation. Finally,
unlike chemical fertilizers which are mass produced in large factories with built-in quality control arrangements,
seed lots, which are usually produced by numerous seed producers in different farming conditions, need to be
carefully tested for quality before they are sold in the market. The quality considerations include attention to
genetic and physical purity of a variety, presence of weed-seeds, generation (i.e.. stage of multiplication, such as
pre-basic, basic and commercial, also known as breeder, foundation and commercial respectively), germination
percentage, moisture content and the date of testing.
B. Historical Development
2.2    The Informal Seed Sector: For centuries, the Ethiopian farmers have used their own seed saved from
the previous crop, or informally obtained it from neighboring farmers, usually in exchange for grain or any other
commodity. These seeds, also described as "land races", have been going through a natural mutation process over
time to produce new genetic versions of seed varieties to fit each agro-ecological niche. Even today, some 85
percent of the Ethiopian farmers are believed to be depending upon these seeds. Though well adapted to the local
agro-ecological situations, and therefore resistant to factors like disease, insect attack or even moisture stress, "land
races" are generally low yielding when compared to modern high yielding varieties bred in agricultural research
stations which have a relatively wider adaptability in a range of environments and have a built-in responsiveness to
the application of chemical inputs like fertilizers.
2.3    The Formal Seed Sector: The formal seed sector in Ethiopia owes its origin to the establishment of the
Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA) in the mid-fifties and the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) in the
mid-sixties, when these institutions started developing improved varieties of seeds for the cereal, pulses and oilseed
crops. These seeds were first introduced to the farmers in 1967 under the Swedish-assisted first minimum package
program in the Chilalo .Awraja in the Arsi zone. The Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit, popularly known as
CADU, supplied a package of inputs and services which included improved seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, credit and
extension advice to the farmers. CADU's success induced similar minimum package programs in other regions;
funding was provided by several international agencies including IDA, USAID, FAO, while the projects were
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture's Extension and Project Implementation Department. By the mid-
1980s, it is estimated that about 21 percent of Arsi Region farmers had adopted improved variety seeds, compared
to only about 2 percent in other regions.
2.4     Ethiopian Seed Corporation: Production of improved commercial seed for cereal, legume and oilseed
crops was institutionalized in 1978 through the parastatal Ethiopian Seed Corporation (ESC); this corporation was
recently converted into the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE). The ESC was under the supervisory authority of the
Ministry of State Farms, Coffee and Tea Development, while ESE is now responsible to the Prime Minister's
Office. The main objectives of ESC were to (a) organize the production and marketing of improved seeds
developed by the IAR and other agricultural research establishments; (b) import reliable high yielding varieties;
and (c) organize seed cleaning and processing facilities at various locations. Until 1990, ESE was virtually the



-6-
sole producer of seeds in the formal seed sector. It obtained the breeder seed from the IAR and AUA and
multiplied it into pre-basic and basic seed at its two seed farms or the farms of the IAR/AUA, and finally into
commercial seed almost exclusively at the state farms. ESE infrastructure includes a stationary seed processing
capacity of about 40,000 tons per season (with two working shifts) at four locations (Nekempt. Assela, Kofele,
Awassa) and 10,000 tons from three mobile cleaners, permanent storage capacity of 37,700 tons at eight locations,
(Nekempt, Assela, Kofele, Awassa, Bahir Dar, Assassa, Dodolla and Robe) with an additional seed reserve store
(2,000 tons) at Kombolcha. ESE also has a seed testing laboratory at Addis Ababa with a capacity to test 5,000
samples per year. During the last five years, its annual production has averaged about 12,450 tons of cleaned seed,
or 12 percent of the total potential market, estimated to be around 100,000 tons. Historically. four crops, namely,
wheat, maize, teff and barley out of 14 traded crops, comprised 80 to 90 percent of sales. Typically the state farms
would absorb some 43 percent of the seed produced, the remainder being distributed to the peasants through Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) (30 percent) and Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation (AISCO) (27
percent). In 1991, AISCO ceased to deal with seeds and ESE expanded its supplies for drought relief operations.
ESE's production planning, distribution and seed pricing was clearly subject to government regulations and policy.
Despite recent policy relaxation, private retailing of improved seeds has not vet commenced and seed quality
remains a critical issue. ESE sells uncertified seed.
2.5    In July 1990, a Joint Venture Agreement was signed between the Ethiopian Seed Corporation and Pioneer
Hi-bred International, USA to procure. produce, process. condition, distribute and sell seeds and other agricultural
products domestically, as well as in the export markets. The respective shares of the two companies are 30 and 70
percent. This joint venture has so far focused on production of hybrid seeds for maize. Lately, the joint venture
has also started the testing of sunflower and alfalfa seeds and is expected to continue with a program of adaptive
research in varieties with commercial potential.
C. Policy Framework
2.6     Policy Environment: For the first time, in October 1992, the TGE announced a National Seed Industry
Policy (NSIP) to help the country develop a healthy seed industry in line with the national economic development
policy, in which the domestic private seed enterprises would be encouraged to actively participate in the production
and distribution of improved seeds. Hitherto, the private sector had virtually no role in the production and
marketing of seeds.  The principal objectives of NSIP include: (a) ensure the collection, conservation,
documentation and utilization of the germplasm resource for future use by national research programs; (b)
streamline variety evaluation, release, registration and maintenance activities through a new organizational set-up;
(c) develop an effective system of producing and supplying high quality seeds of important crops to satisfy the
national seed requirements through active participation of both public and private sector; (d) encourage the
participation of farmers in germplasm conservation as well as seed production; (e) create a functional and efficient
organizational set-up to facilitate cooperative linkage and coordination between the various participants in the seed
industry; and (f) regulate seed quality standards, import and export, seed trade quarantine, and other seed related
issues. Further, the policy provides for the setting up of a National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA), under the
umbrella of a National Seed Industry Council (NSIC), to guide and monitor the growth of the national seed
industry along sound lines. The NSIP also seeks to define the role of the public and the private sectors in seed
industry development, promote active farmer participation, strengthen the system of seed quality control, lay down
arrangements for variety testing and release, and promote secondary seed multiplication schemes at
community/village levels, using both local and improved cultivars. Finally, unlike in the past, the NSIP requires
that the price of seed be determined by market forces. The policy is clearly cognizant of the natural resource
conservation and sustainability concerns. As a follow-up to the policy, the TGE issued a proclamation (No.
56/1993 of July 16, 1993) establishing the NSIA and NSIC to implement NSIP, and to assure the overall growth
of a broad-based seed industrv. The policy is expected to be followed by a seed legislation to regulate the industry
on a sound basis, and protect the interests of the plant breeders, distributors and farmers.



-7-
D. Current Status of the Seed Sector
2.7     Breeders Seed: IAR and AUA are the main plant breeding institutions in Ethiopia; there is as yet no
private plant breeding activity. The IAR, operating from 14 main research centers and 29 sub-centers, is the
principal plant breeding institution for cereal crops, pulses, oilseeds, cotton, potato and forage crops. The AUA.
with two centers and seven sub-centers is specializing in the improvement of teff, durum wheat, pulses, potato and
forages, through its teaching staff on a part time basis, except at the Debre Zeit station.  Breeders in both
institutions have concentrated on crop varieties which have the greatest potential across as wide a spectrum of
agro-ecological zones (AEZs) as possible. However, even though research is well organized at these institutes,
their resources are inadequate compared to the needs of Ethiopia, which has a vast variability of agro-ecological
conditions. Despite these constraints., some 60 improved varieties, have been released in the last 10 years. Of
these, 30 varieties of cereals, five varieties of food legumes and six varieties of oilseeds are currently used by ESE.
A serious lacuna, however, is the absence of research in seed technology for developing seed standards for seed
quality and seed health care.
2.8     The breeders seed production program  suffers from a lack of manpower. and from  equipment and
infrastructural constraints. As a result, it has been difficult to maintain the variety's original characteristics and
uniformity.   Serious difficulties have also been experienced in roguing some foundation seed fields as
distinguishing morphological characters for the released varieties included in the program  were not readily
available from the breeders. Further, once a variety is approved for release, IAR and AUA are often unable to
produce breeder seed in quantities sufficient for multiplication; for example, only 380 kg of breeder seed was
produced in 1992 against the total demand of 1. 1 tons. Thus, there hlave been serious gaps in the systematic flow
of adequate quantities of breeder seed from the research institutions to the producers of basic seeds, because of lack
of proper seed processing and threshing equipment, and storage facilities.
2.9     Despite the problems with the currently available quality and quantity of breeder seeds, however, the basic
research program is making good progress. The program has a number of promising technologies in its pipeline
with varieties released or under active development for several priority food crops. In basic research efforts,
Ethiopia has enjoyed the active collaboration of many of the international research centers (CIMMYT, IITA,
ICRISAT, ICARDA, ILCA, and CIAT) in addition to the IDA-supported Agricultural Research Project (Credit
1521-ET).
2.10    The joint venture company, Ethiopia Pioneer Hi-bred Seeds Inc., is currently engaged in an active testing
program for their imported hybrid maize. Results are promising; already one variety (medium maturity cycle) of
hybrid maize (PHB 3435) has been submitted for release by the National Variety Release Committee (NVRC).
Another maize variety (PHB 3253) is expected to be evaluated for release very shortly. The joint venture started
testing of sunflower and alfalfa seeds and will carrv out a continuous program of adaptive seed research in Ethiopia
where commercial potential warrants.
2.11    Variety Release Mechanism: Like many other countries, testing of newly developed varieties, and
release and registration of these is carried out by NVRC. NVRC was established in 1982 and is composed of
breeders, agronomists, crop protection experts and social scientists from the various institutions including research
centers. Since its establishment, NVRC has released more than 29 varieties of cereals, 17 varieties of oilseed
crops. 7 pulse varieties. 7 cotton varieties, and 7 vegetable tuber varieties. However, NVRC faces a number of
difficulties including (a) lack of appropriate facilities to test essential characteristics of improved varieties such as
malting and baking quality, oil content, fiber quality and cooking quality; (b) less than adequate participation of
institutions represented in the Committee; (c) lack of transport facility; and (d) delay in the release of varieties due
to late reporting of evaluation results and/or poor attendance by member institutions. However, under the recent
adopted Seed Policy, NVRC is now answerable to NSIA. Since then, a new organizational set-up and revised
working guidelines for NVRC and the breeders seeking the service of NVRC have been drafted and approved by
NSIC in December 1993.



-8-
2.12    Basic Seed Production: The multiplication of breeders seed into basic (or foundation) seed has been the
weakest link in the chain of seed multiplication in Ethiopia. This has been due both to the lack of breeder seed and
to a lack of production capacity on the part of ESE itself. The IAR and AUA could only be of limited help in
producing basic seed on their farms. Until 1989, 80 percent of ESE traded seed has been grown from commercial
rather than from basic or certified seed. Inevitably, the quality of output achieved was disappointing on two
counts: (a) genetic quality was below the potential of what research had achieved; and (b) physical quality and
purity was below the potential attainable through superior husbandry and post-harvest processing.
2.13    In the late nineteen-eighties, ESE seriously addressed this problem. It obtained land allocation for two
basic seed farms in Southern Ethiopia, one for highland crops and one for mid-altitude to low-land crops. These
farms are being developed with the technical and financial assistance of the European Union. The Gonde-Iteya
500 ha farm near Assela (two non-contiguous blocks of 250 ha each) for highland crops is in operation, though
some of its basic infrastructure, like the installation of seed processing facilities. is still being completed. Upon full
completion by 1995, this farm would secure ESE's medium term pre-basic and basic seed requirements for
highland crops, which constitute 70 percent of ESE's sales. The second 400 ha rainfed basic seed farm at Shalo
near Awassa, for mid-altitude and low land crops, is expected to be completed by 1997. However. the location of
both these farms in the South does not achieve satisfactory geographical risk distribution against large-scale crop
failure or rejection in calamity years. ESE is now considering the feasibility of establishing a third basic seed farm
in northern Ethiopia.
2.14    Basic Seed Production by ESE--Pioneer Hibred Joint Venture: Basic seed production by the joint
venture (Ethiopian Pioneer) started in 1991 with the contracting of 257 ha of land from state farms and ESE basic
seed farm for hybrid maize and sunflower production. However, seed yields for sunflower were disappointingly
low. In 1993, about 608 ha was under basic seed production, which resulted in a harvest of about 600 tons of raw
seed.
2.15    Commercial Seed Production: ESE's production of commercial seed, about 15,000 tons per annum, has
taken place mostly on state farms located in Bale, Welega, Gojam, Shoa and Arsi. Private farmers were not
involved. In most cases, these farms did not adhere to minimum certification standards, and did not follow
generally accepted seed production practices. The risk of concentrating seed production in a few locations
increases the attendant risk of crop failures or rejection and has made ESE rethink its policy of exclusive reliance
on government farms for certified/commercial seed production. In the 1994 crop year ESE has already placed
contracts with commercial farms for 1,150 hectares out of total seed production contracts for about 7,750 hectares.
The enterprise needs to widen its production base by contracting with more outgrowers in the vicinity of its seed
processing facilities. In order to ensure efficient and quality-oriented seed production, ESE could develop "seed
villages" within the command area of each regional unit; this would overcome the problems caused by the very
small size of contract grower farms and the problem of isolation. Further, now that two hybrids (BH-140, top-cross
and BH-660, three-way cross) have been released, and more are in the pipeline, and the Pioneer joint venture also
has its own hybrids, it is time for ESE to launch a campaign, including demonstrations to popularize hybrids. This
would help to rapidly increase maize production in the country.
2.16    Seed Processing and Storage:  Seed Processing and storage is required at each stage of the seed
production chain. The term "processing" encompasses various post harvest operations including drying, shelling,
threshing, pre-cleaning, cleaning, grading, treating and packaging. Storage in the present context refers to the
period between the completion of the processing activities and the distribution for use as breeder/basic/certified
(commercial) seed. The objective of seed storage is to preserve seed health and viability by paying attention to
prevailing temperature-cum-humidity regimes, and preventing pest-insect attack. The duration of storage for
commercial seed would ordinarily not exceed six months, whereas the breeder seed (and possibly some foundation
seed) may need to be stored for periods of two years or more, and therefore would require specially designed stores
to provide temperatures (between 15 and 18 degrees celsius) and relative humidity not exceeding 50 percent.
2.17    The current availability of processing and storage facilities for different stages in the seed production
chain present several problems. The breeders do not have access to the minimum facilities for the processing and



-9-
storage of their seed. These facilities should include equipment for seed extraction, threshing of small seed lots,
seed cleaning machines suitable to handle small lots of breeder seed, to avoid the risk of mechanical admixture,
and small conditioned stores. The two basic seed farms are being equipped by the European Union (EU) with
adequate processing and storage facilities for raw and processed seed. Commercial seed is processed at ESE's four
processing plants at Assela, Koffele, Nekempt and Sidamo (Awassa) with a total capacity of 30,000 tons, and three
mobile processing plants of 10,000 tons capacity each. ESE also has equipment for a processing plant at Bahir Dar
which has been awaiting installation since 1981. It is expected that this plant would also be commissioned by the
end of 1995. Thus, ESE would have a total capacity (60,000 to 70,000 tons) which is in excess of its immediate
needs for processing its own seeds and/or limited custom seed processing; it is recalled, however, that part of the
excess capacity is inherent to the geographical conditions of the country. However, all of the seed processing plants
need repairs, rehabilitation and upgrading. The lack of adequate and qualified processing staff at the plants
constrains efficiency.  Additional Technical Assistance (TA) and training is urgently required to improve
processing efficiency and cost effectiveness, as well as farmer acceptance of seeds produced by the enterprise. ESE
benefits from adequate storage facilities at each of its five regional seed production units and some transit stores in
seed production areas (Kombolcha. Assassa, Dodolla and Robe). None of the regional seed processing units is
equipped with seed testing facilities.
2.18    Packaging and Labeling: This is another area of weakness. The seed is packed in standard bag sizes of
100 and 50 kg, irrespective of the size of farm holdings and the seed rate for different crops. ESE is now revising
its policy on bag size. Similarly, the non-labeling of seed bags has prevented ESE from developing a brand image,
and the farmers from getting the minimum needed information concerning the crop variety, physical purity and
germination percentage.
2.19    Quality Control, Seed Law and Seed Certification: Seed quality is the single most critical factor which
determines the health and viability of the seed industry in any country. "Seed" is distinguishable from "grain" only
on the strength of its physical, physiological and genetical quality, which is traditionally indicated on the seed bag
through a label. In advanced seed systems, in addition to labeling, seed bags are often certified with certification
tags by an independent seed certification authority established by law. Once the farmer develops confidence in the
system and the veracity of the labels, much of the price resistance is generally overcome. In Ethiopia, the practice
of labeling seed bag has not yet begun; even the highly improved varieties released by the Ethiopian breeders and
multiplied by ESE are selling without variety labeling. In fact, there is as yet no system of external quality control
and certification. Very limited quality control is exercised by the Quality Department of ESE which uses only its
seed testing laboratory located at its headquarters in Addis Ababa. However, under the National Seed Industry
Policy, a draft seed law has been prepared and is under consideration by the Council of Ministers. Once this law is
enacted, seed standards, seed rules and administrative procedures would be finalized, and voluntary seed
certification introduced.
2.20    Seed Marketing: ESE is virtually the sole institution in the formal sector through which the country's
seed requirement is currently met; yet the enterprise does not have a proper marketing infrastructure to directly sell
its seeds to the peasants who produce 90 percent of the country's crop output. ESE markets its seeds to state farms
directly and, for emergency relief operations, through NGOs and MOA. Seeds to the peasants used to be sold
through AISCO. Up to 1990, nearly 49 percent of ESE's average annual sales went to the state farms, 27 percent
to NGOs and 24 percent to AISCO. This arrangement reflected the priority accorded by Government to the state
sector as opposed to the peasant sector. The seed sales through AISCO have not helped generate a sustained
demand among peasants partly because of the seed quality problems and partly because of the relatively lower
priority accorded by AISCO to seed vis-a-vis fertilizer marketing. Seed sales to emergency relief organizations are
coordinated through a central office of the Christian Relief and Development Association in Addis Ababa.
Further, of late, the demand from the state farms has declined considerably, but ESE's overall sales have remained
unaffected because of the very large demand put up by the drought relief program in the last few years. In 1994,
the share of different agencies changed dramatically: State farms, 5 percent; NGOs, rose to 65 percent; emergency
relief through MOA went to 29.7 percent, and direct sale to farmers to only 0.3 percent. Since drought and
emergency relief is not a lasting business, ESE faces the risk of a sudden drop in demand during a year of normal
weather conditions. Realizing the gravity of the situation, ESE is currently developing a sustainable marketing



-10-
strategy in which peasants would be the main clients. A number of areas in a scheme of seed market development
would need attention. These include: (a) aggressive sales promotion through a well-trained and well-motivated
private and cooperative dealer network: (b) full support of the extension agencies in creating seed-qualitv
consciousness; (c) truthfully labeling of seed bags; (d) adjusting the size of seed bags to the needs of small holders
(seeds are never sold loose because of quality control problems), and (e) expaniding the range of products offered
for sale to the farmers.
2.21    The product mix of ESE sales falls under three major categories: cereals, pulses and oilseeds. The cereal
group (wheat, teff, malze. barley, sorghum. millet, teff and oats) is b! far the most important and accounts for
about 82 percent of the cropped area, followed by pulses which occupy 12 percent of the area under cultivation. and
consist of fava beans, chick peas, field peas, haricot beans, vetch, lcntils and soybeans. The oilseeds group.
covering about 4.4 percent of 'the area under cultivation consists of noug-mustard, linseed. fenugreek, rape seed.
sunflower, sesame and groundnut. Among the cereal crops, ESE seed suipply, between 1986 and 1994. comprised
about 60 percent for wheat, 22 percent for maize, 9 percent for barley and 5 percent and 4 percent for sorghum and
teff, respectively. There is scope for the formal sector to expand the product mix by including crops like
vegetables, potatoes and other horticultural crops once an appropriate production and marketing system is in place.
2.22    Seed Prices Until 1991. ESE was compelled to sell seed at prices whichi were set by the Governmenit
While the seed sold to the state farms or AISCO was uniformly priced at between 10 and 30 percent below ESE's
estimated cost of production, seed sold to NGOs was priced at 5 to 10 perceiit above cost. Inevitably, ESE's
financial viability was seriously undermined. However, since 1991 ESE has raised its prices significantly, and the
enterprise has made profits since 1992. It should be noted that during the massive drought relief operations of
1994, seeds were distributed by some of the newly established regional administrations in the drought alfected
areas below market price and this practice has sent confusing signals to the farming population. The practice of
making seed available below market price is, other than for emergency relief operations, contrarv to the country's
national seed policy and needs careful scrutiny. moreover cleaned grains, distributed and sold by emergency relief
organizations should be labeled accordingly, to make it readily distinguishable from proper seed.
2.23    In a distorted situation, like the one described above, it is almost impossible to estimate seed demand with
a reasonable degree of accuracy. However. MOA and the parastatal AISCO, have been estimating demand for
agricultural inputs through the involvement of grass-roots service cooperatives. This procedure has often resulted
in a wish list, rather than in effective demand estimation, and the seed requirement estimates usually reached ESE
(hitherto ESC) well after the seed production decisions had already been taken by the enterprise. However, now
that ESE is operating in a liberalized environment, with hard budget constraint, it is important that it puts in place
a mechanism to estimate demand by crop varieties and regions. It is equally important for ESE to rapidly and
consciously build up an image of seed quality, which entails using attractive bagging materials in an effort to
improve brand-image, thereby guaranteeing the seed quality through truthful labeling.
E. Key Institutional Issues
2.24    Restructuring of Ethiopia Seed Enterprise: The ESE, whose major activities in the area of basic and
commercial seed production. processing and marketing have already been enumerated in previous sections. is to be
restructured under the Council of Ministers Regulation No. 154/1993 dated November 19, 1993 ESE has already
been declared an autonomous commercial enterprise and its Board of Directors has been nominated; two members
of the Board are elected by the ESE staff as their representatives. The main objective of the restructuring exercise
is to increase the operational efficiency and cost effectiveness of the enterprise by (a) decentralizing its functions
into five regional seed processing units, each with appropriate delegation of powers and with full accountability
and arrangements for timely flow of information and progress reports to the headquarters; (b) setting up a strong
marketing and promotion department with a view to quickly penetrating the peasant sector; (c) widening ESE
production base by developing contract seed growing with private commercial seed farms which are now
increasingly being established, and with individual farmer seed growers; (d) reducing ESE's per unit cost of seed



-11-
production through enhanced efficiencies; and (e) rationalizing the work force at Headquarters as well as the
regional units and basic seed farms which are operated by the enterprise.
2.25    In April 1994 the ESE Board of Directors approved some proposals for the restructuring of ESE which
rationalized the departments within ESE and strengthened the services and infrastructure at basic seed farms and
regional seed processing units.  While the approved arrangements have already been implemented at the
headquarters level, a lot of work remains to be done in the regions. This includes re-deployment of staff at various
levels, designing and implementing new management systems and procedures, working out key monitorable
performance indicators as well as new accounting systems. In this detailed exercise, ESE is being assisted by
consultants funded by EU. The consultants are expected to deliver their findings and recommendations by early
1995. In the meantime, each regional unit has been asked by the senior management to operate as a separate cost
center, effective July 8, 1994. Much of the future success of ESE would depend upon how well the restructuring
exercise is implemented.
2.26    National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA): The focal point for the implementation of the national seed
industry policy and the overall development of the seed-subsector is the autonomous NSIA which was established
in July 1993 under Proclamation No. 56/1993 dated July 16, 1993. The Agency has the following objectives: (a)
to oversee and ensure that the seed industry develops and operates efficiently; (b) to ensure that the seed producers
and the farming community, as well as the industries using agricultural raw materials and organizations exporting
agricultural produce benefit from the seed industry; and (c) to create an enabling environment for capacity building
in research, development and training in the field of genetic resource conservation, crop improvement and seed
technology. The NSIA has been assigned extensive responsibilities spanning the entire spectrum of seed related
activities. It would also be the principal coordinating agency for the activities under the Seed Systems
Development Project. An office for NSIA has already been set up, and a General Manager has been appointed;
more staff need to be recruited and equipment and vehicles (four wheel drive vehicles) to visit rural areas need to
be procured. Further, given the vast mandate, NSIA also needs to prepare an annual work program, consistent
with its abilities and resources, and to prepare an annual report for the information of the Council of Ministers.
2.27    National Seed Industry Council (NSIC): NSIC is the umbrella body which would guide, monitor and
oversee the functioning of NSIA and the seed industry. The General Manager, NSIA is the member secretary of
the NSIC. In terms of the National Seed Industry Policy (NSIP), NSIC would draw membership from
governmental and non-governmental organizations. However, the proclamation proposed the membership from
governmental organizations only, and stated that other members could be elected by the council as necessary. It
would be useful to have private sector representation on the NSIC as early as possible. The Council already has
had several meetings and has taken some very useful decisions, including the issue of guidelines and procedures
for variety evaluation and release for governmental and non-governmental organization.
2.28    Plant Genetic Resource Center (PGRC). Established in 1976, PGRC is a national institution providing
vital support to the national agricultural research system. The conserved genetic material is accessed by plant
breeders to develop improved varieties for cultivation. The PGRC collects, conserves. documents and utilizes the
germplasm resources of edible, economically and medicinally important plants. Ethiopia, with its wide range of
agro-climatic conditions has been identified as one of the centers of diversity around the world. Primitive cultivars
of land races and wild relatives of some of the world's major crops are abundant here. The center, however, suffers
from inadequate facilities like shortage of temperature and humidity-controlled storage rooms, a seed drying unit,
field and laboratorv equipment, and field vehicles, which need to be provided to sustain the very useful activities of
the center.



-12-
F. Lessons Learned
2.29    With regard to the informal seed sector, there are some useful lessons from Secondary Seed Multiplication
Schemes (SSMS) which have been tried in a number of countries-I-. A major conclusion is that farmer-managed
seed systems are not a substitute for the conventional seed system based on seed enterprises; both systems are
complementary, and entrepreneurs from the informal system would gradually evolve into formal enterprises. In
the most successful informal systems, the emphasis has been on farmers' training and extension advice  In
Malawi. the Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme Component did not succeed because farmers could not freely
sell the seed, but were instead compelled to deliver seed to the Government, whereby seed prices were state
controlled and subsidized. In Senegal and Gambia, communally managed seed plots were not nearly as well
maintained as seed plots managed by individual farmers. However, the scheme provided training, helped conduct
demonstrations in farmers' fields and tried to teach the farmers "how to do better what they have been doing for
centuries." In Senegal. the informal seed multiplication system worked well, but being heavily donor/NGO
dependent, sustainability is the issue. In Nepal. the system has been in place for over 10 years; a lesson from this
experience is that the more a system is decentralized, the more efficiently it works. For instance, working with
farm families was better than working with groups; storage bins for individual farmers proved more effective than
mini-seed houses to clean and store up to 40 tons of seeds. Further, small farmers often opted for seed exchange,
rather than buying seed against cash; subsidies in the formal seed sector discouraged farmers from producing their
own seed. Another important lesson is that it takes about five years to build sufficient momentum to make the
program sustainable, provided appropriate backstopping and support from extension continues. A USAID study in
three villages of Cameroon's Central Province, where farm trials were simultaneously conducted, shows that 90
percent of the farmers were using improved maize varieties. These lessons have been taken into account when
designing the SSMS component of the Project.
2.30    In the case of the formal seed sector, a number of lessons have been learned from past experience. Twelve
years (1979-91) of Ethiopian experience with full state controls is an example of how a seed system should not be
run. The system led to (a) under-utilization of seed processing and storage capacities; (b) scant attention to the
scientific rigors necessary in the system, i.e., missing out on basic seed production, and near total disregard of the
most critical ingredient in a successful seed system, namely, quality control; (c) absence of supporting institutional
and legal structures (like the recently set up NSIA, and a seed law) to promote the interest of the subsector; (d)
neglect of the most important clients (viz., the peasants) who produce 90 percent of the country's crops; (e) a non-
commercial approach combined with stringent seed and foodgrain price controls; and, as a result, (f) continuing
losses for ESE, and severely limited benefits to the economy. However, the improvements/reforms, initiated by
TGE since 1991, are already beginning to show results. ESE has turned the page and has made a profit ever since
prices of seed and food grains were liberalized. The basic thrust of IDA's experience in other countries (in Sub-
Saharan Africa alone IDA has some 39 completed or ongoing Projects with a seed component, and three self-
standing seed projects) points in a similar direction. An internal review by the Bank of the past experience and
future needs in the seed sector shows a disproportionate placement of seed investments in the public sector; relative
neglect of the private sector, absence of a conducive policy environment which would encourage private sector
involvement in the technological functions of the seed sector (including plant breeding, product development,
import of technology and subsequent dissemination), reliance upon a single institution and ad hoc interventions by
the Government, have generally met with poor success. On the other hand, areas of relative success have included
investments in institutional development, technical assistance and training. These lessons have been built into the
design of the project by directing a major part of the credit for the development of the formal sector as well as the
informal sector.
1' These experiences have been documented in Bal and Douglas' "Designing Successful Farmer-Managed Seed
Systems (Winroch 1992)" and AFTD's "Seed Systems in Sub-Saharan Africa-Issues and Options".



-13-
G. Design Considerations for the Seed Project
2.31    The following considerations influenced the design of the project. Firt. the proposed seed system should
be specific to Ethiopia; it must be consistent with the evolutionary stage of its economic policies and fit with the
level of agricultural and infrastructural development, as well as with the maturity of its institutions. Second, while
the serious food security concerns of Ethiopia would require a rapid adoption of improved seed, the experience of
several countries shows that the formal seed sector has seldom been effective in quickly reaching out to the
difficult, inaccessible, small holder pockets, in which the country abounds. On the other hand, some experience,
even if limited, is now available to guide simultaneous interventions in the informal sector, as an effective means to
alleviate household food security and poverty concerns. Since seed cleaning and preservation is an activity which
essentially belongs to women, their involvement in training for knowledge and skills upgrading would be crucial.
Thus, the project recommends a mix of formal and informal seed sector development strategies. Thijrd given the
nature of the seed industry, where biological processes strongly influence the pace of growth, and given the
evolutionary nature of institutions (one-year old NSIA, for example) and the current status of the private sector
which has been emasculated during two decades of the previous regime, the seed industry development would
require a phased program of implementation over a period of 15 to 20 years. The proposed project has thus been
designed as the first phase of this longer-term program to establish the basis for and direction of change.
Restructuring ESE on the lines proposed under the project would assist ESE to change from a supply-oriented
parastatal to a market-oriented commercial enterprise. Fourth, the project proposes to use the restructured ESE
itself as an agent of change by encouraging ESE to progressively contract its seed production programs with
commercial farmers as well as peasants, and market its seeds through a network of individual private and
cooperative retailers. ESE would also provide service to private seed producers by custom processing their seeds at
their regional processing plants. Such systematic grass root initiatives are critical to the building of capacity in the
private seed sector, which is virtually non-existent at present. Further, while the main responsibility for an on-
farm seed production system in the informal sector must rest with regional extension agencies, ESE would have an
important role in the timely supply of right-size seed packages of the right varieties at the right places, and in
assisting extension agencies to formulate and deliver messages to participant farmers on relevant seed
technologies. Fifth. and finally, various project components are designed to contribute to poverty alleviation in
Ethiopia. The entire secondary seed multiplication program in the informal sector, would make deep cuts into the
transportation and marketing costs, and make seeds available to poor farmers in remote locations, the enrollment
of smallholders as ESE's contract seed producers, the appointment of small businessmen as seed retailers, the
concept of private seed producers and sellers, usually described as seedsmen (para 3.17), who are expected to have
low transaction costs and therefore lower prices--all these are designed to improve small holders access to
improved seeds and thus contribute to an increase in their incomes. In addition, the project's support to the Plant
Genetic Resource Center (PGRC) would ensure that promotion of a few high yielding varieties would not eliminate
the tremendous genetic diversity represented by land races and primitive cultivars of crops grown by small farmers.
This indigenous and locally adapted germplasm is important as a source of genetically based drought tolerance,
pest and disease resistance and other traits which would remain critical, particularly for small farmers with poor
land and little capacity to purchase the inputs.
H. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.32    The rationale for IDA involvement stems from the following considerations. First, building capacity to
produce high quality seeds is the basic first step in any agricultural modernization program--it is the foundation
over which the superstructure of other yield enhancing programs rests. Second, it fits in well with IDA's approach
to strengthen agricultural support services, which essentially comprise strong research and extension programs
backed by a sound seed and fertilizer supply system. IDA has already assisted TGE with an agricultural research
project, and is now assisting with the proposed National Fertilizer Sector Project, while another agricultural
research-cum-extension project is in the pipeline. A Seed Systems Development Project (SSDP) would be a natural
complement to the on-going IDA support of the agricultural sector; it would, in fact, help ensure that the Ethiopian



-14-
rainfed agricultural system develops resilience and capacity to cope with erratic rainfall patterns and drought by
widening farmers varietal options in terms of planting time, maturity period, and capacity to cope with moisture
stress. Third, given the small average size of holdings in Ethiopia, and the fact that some 60 percent of the farmers
are below the poverty line, the project would contribute to sustained enhanced yields and higher incomes, and thus
help alleviate rural poverty. Fourth, and finally, the Government has demonstrated ownership and commitment to
the project by the recently announced seed policy and strategy document which supports. inter alia, the
participation of both the public and the private seed enterprises in the development of the seed sector and its
willingness to allocate a portion of the proposed credit to the development of the private sector. Moreover, ESE,
which is the only seed enterprise at present, has been made an autonomous commercial enterprise, subject to hard
budget constraint, with its own board of directors. Major restructuring of ESE is underway.
2.33    The project fits in well with the IDA's Country Assistance Strategy to support Ethiopia's rapid social and
economic recovery and the attainment of a high and sustainable rate of economic growth in the short to medium
term. The central objective of the Bank's program of assistance for Ethiopia remains the reduction of poverty
through a combination of sustainable economic growth and employment generation, improvements in basic social
services, and special targeted measures to improve income, self reliance, and quality of life for the poorest groups
and communities. Economic growth is the essential basis of a long-term strategy to reduce poverty through
increased employment and food production. The aim of the Bank's program is to support this growth strategy
through a series of important measures: a policy framework to stimulate production, exports, and private sector
growth; a reliable flow of inputs for the productive sectors; essential improvement and expansion of infrastructure;
environmental rehabilitation and conservation; and institutional capacity essential for economic growth. The
proposed Project would ensure the supply of seed, a vital input to raise agricultural production and productivity,
and it would thereby support TGE's strategic goal to maintain the national food deficit within a level that can be
met from regular imports.



-15-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective and Components
3.1    The objective of the Project is to contribute to the national goal of increased agricultural production and
productivity by laying the foundation for the development of a broad-based and competitive seed industry which
draws its strength both from the formal and the informal seed systems.
3.2    The Project supports Seed Policy Reform, through each of its two components. The components are: (a)
Seed Enterprise Development; and (b) Capacity Building. The first component supports (i) the development of the
informal seed sector; (ii) encourages private sector entrv into formal seed business; and supports (iii) the
restructuring of the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise from a centrally managed parastatal to a decentralized and
commercially oriented enterprise. The second component involves: (i) institutional strengthening: and (ii) human
resource development, both in the formal and the informal sector
B. Seed Policy Reform
3.3     Satisfactory implementation of the project would require a conducive policy environment. The project
would build on the impressive initiatives already taken by TGE (para 2.6) and would require rapid implementation
progress in four specific areas namely, seed pricing, seed marketing, private sector development, and quality
control and seed certification.
3.4     Seed Pricing: There is a strong need to harmonize the institutional, regional and national seed pricing
policies to prepare the basis for developing a competitive seed industry (para 2.22). The current practice of some
regions subsidizing seed at the local level, for reasons other than to cope with the negative effects of severe
drought, hinders the growth of a healthy and competitive seed industry. Moreover, subsidization of seed is contrary
to the National Seed Industry Policy (NSIP) according to which, under normal circumstances, "Seed price would be
determined by market forces"; it is important to ensure the implementation of this policy by all seed producing and
distributing agencies, as well as the national and regional administrations. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, starting with the 1995 crop season, seed prices would be market determined. However, for
emergency situations following severe drought or  other natural calamities, a targeted and relief oriented
assistance, aimed to safeguard continuity of agricultural production in the affected areas, would be provided
without affecting the normal seed marketing operations in other, non-affected areas.
3 5     Seed Marketing: Seed marketing is historically the wveakest link in the seed production/marketing chain
in Ethiopia In the past. ESE engaged mainlv in institutional sales; direct sales to the peasant sector were, as
recent as 1993-94, less than I percent (para 2.20). Development of an efficient and well-articulated seed
marketing system, capable of reaching out to the peasants, is a critical building block for an effective seed system
IDA has been informed that ESE would soon have its new marketing strategy to cover the following aspects: (a)
direct retailing of seeds from all ESE processing plants; (b) establishing a private and cooperative dealer network
that is well trained and motivated, and spread out in all agricultural areas; (c) adjusting the size of seed bags to the
needs of small farmers; (d) supplying, according to agro-ecological needs, the most suitable varieties of seeds; (e)
truthful labeling of all seed bags; (f) market-determined prices for each location; and (g) aggressive sales
promotion. Towards this end, the project would support the periodic training of seed dealers by NSIA under the
Capacity Building component: and enforcement mechanisms for the seed law which is currently under
consideration by the Council of Ministers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would assist
ESE in implementing its new marketing strategy and would provide training to the emerging private seed
marketers



-16-
3.6    Private Sector:  While the private sector has played a very important role in the growth of the seed
industry in many developing countries, in Ethiopia the private sector is conspicuous by its absence. Only recently,
limited seed production has been contracted between ESE and some newly established commercial farms. To
begin with, the private sector can play a very useful role in strengthening the seed system through contract seed
production and seed marketing. Private sector participation in these areas could immediately widen the seed
production base and improve small farmers access to quality seed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that NSIA would encourage the private sector to (a) produce and distribute improved seed; (b) engage in plant
breeding; and (c) start seed enterprises. Further, the Government would license private foreign seed firms, which
show interest, to undertake crop research activities on non-restricted crops, in line with the national seed and
agricultural research policies.
3.7    Quality Control and Seed Certification: Given that seed quality is the single most critical factor which
determines the viability of any seed enterprise, and given that the quality aspect has not attracted adequate
attention so far, the project would support the needed preparatory actions for introducing quality control measures
like the enactment of a seed law. formulation of seed rules and administrative procedures, setting of seed standards,
building of a central seed testing laboratory and appointment of seed certification staff. However, at the beginning,
emphasis would be limited to quality control and truthful labeling of seeds before marketing, rather than
compulsory seed certification. A full-fledged national quality control and seed certification system would be
established at a later stage in the evolution of the seed program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
NSIAINSIC would attach priority to the creation of a legal framework and ensure that, to begin with all seed
marketed by Government agencies, as well as ESE, would be truthfully labeled, and that seed certification would be
on a voluntary basis.
C. Detailed Project Components
Component I - Seed Enterprise Development (USS17.2 million)
3.8    Informal Sector--Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme (USS5.0 million): It is recognized that it
takes a long time for formal seed systems to gain popular usage in remote, difficult to access rural areas, which
therefore remain deprived of improved genetic material for enhancing crop yields. Farmers have demonstrated for
centuries that they know how to sustain agricultural production, even if at relatively low yield levels, through
adaptation and improvement of land races by informal (farmer-to-farmer) seed exchange systems. The project
would build on this strength by training farmers at selected locations in improved seed production, cleaning and
preservation technology and assisting them with planting materials in the form of improved seeds, which would
then gradually become a part of the informal seed exchange system. This would help raise the yield levels of their
crops and contribute to the preservation of the existing genetic pool. However, since this would be an altogether
new experience for Ethiopia, and management structures to handle interventions in the form of machines, civil
works and the like do not exist at the village level, the project would, in addition to training, provide the farmer
families simple tools, like hand sieves for seed cleaning and family size seed storage bins, to make the program
sustainable with minimum govemment intervention. The project would also strengthen the national seed extension
system through training of extension/agents and subject matter specialists. It would improve the mobility of the
extension staff through procurement of bicycles and mules, and would finance incremental operating expenses of
the implementing agencies as well as the seed mini-kits which would be distributed free of charge. This project
component would progressively build on the experience gained each year, and would draw upon the resources of
individuals and consulting firms or business groups for training, designing management systems, improving
communication skills, community participation, evaluation and technical advice.
3.9    The Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme (SSMS) would be implemented by the regional agricultural
bureaus under the guidance of MOA, while the overall responsibility for the design and coordination of the SSMS
would rest with NSIA. The regional agriculture bureaus would use ESE for the supply of quality seeds, and the
agricultural research system for technical backstopping. NSIA would develop the first year's program in elaborate



-17-
consultation with the regional agricultural bureaus, MOA, the PGRC, and the agricultural research system.
Implementation arrangements are detailed in Chapter V. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
SSMS work plan for Project Year I would be discussed and finalized in the Project Launch Workshop; subsequent
annual SSMS work plans would be submitted by NSIA two months prior to the start of the new project year for
review and comments by IDA.
3.10    Formal Sector--Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (USS11.2 million): ESE is now a public autonomous
enterprise (para 2.24), operating on commercial principles, and thereby facing hard budget constraints. ESE's
restructuring is expected to be completed soon (para 2.25).  Managers and heads of departments at ESE
headquarters have already been appointed, as have the heads of the basic seed farms and the five regional seed
processing units. However, the detailed staffing plan for each of the regional units is still being worked out. In the
new reality, each of the five regional units would develop its own seed production (through contract seed growers.
including commercial farms) and seed marketing capability (through a network of private retailers) and it is,
therefore, clear that an adequate Management Information System (MIS), allowing management at a central level
to stay current with the operational and financial status of various regional units, is of utmost importance. The
ESE is assisted by EU funded consultants in the task of setting up the MIS. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that ESE's submission of the final and detailed restructuring proposal and the business plan (inclusive
of the Key Monitoring Indicators) for the first year would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. Business plans for
subsequent years would be submitted by ESE, through NSIA, to IDA at least two months prior to the new (annual)
planning period.
3.11    Basic Seed Production: Given the agro-ecological diversity in Ethiopia and the location of the two
existing basic seed farms in the southern part of Ethiopia, (para 2.13) there is a case for locating at least one
additional basic seed farm in the northern parts of the country, to produce seeds of region-specific crops, as well as
crop varieties that are adapted to specific locations in the north.  Another advantage of such a dispersed
arrangement would be a reduction in the risk of seed crop failure from disease or other natural hazards. ESE has
proposed one new basic seed farm to cater specifically to the needs of seed producers in Gojam, Gonder, Tigray
and Wollo regions. The project provides funding for a detailed feasibility study of such farm; the project would
eventually support investment, if the study concludes positive on the financial and economic viability. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations for ESE to submit the terms of reference for the feasibility study of the third
basic seed farm, through NSIA, not later than at the start of the second project year.
3.12    Seed Processing:  The project would provide funds for the rehabilitation of ESE's seed processing
infrastructure. Requirements for spare-parts, replacement of worn out accessories, screens, etc., have already been
worked out in detail by ESE. The project would further support the installation at Bahir Dar of seed processing
equipment (procured in 1981 but never installed), and the procurement of some of its essential (and hitherto
missing) parts. The project would further provide for one mobile seed cleaner (to be operated in combination with
the two existing mobile cleaners at Bahir Dar) to ensure seed cleaning in areas like Mekele, Kambolcha and Sodo.
Local production of seed for the Tigray, Wollo and Sodo areas would considerably reduce the (prohibitive)
transportation costs and the problems of seed adaptation to local agro-ecological situations. The project provides
for funding of feasibility studies to erect permanent seed processing units in these areas, after the initial seed
production and marketing efforts are successful.
3.13    The iack of a qualified and experienced seed processing engineer with ESE, to coordinate and supervise
processing, and ensure preventive maintenance, is an important constraint which is further aggravated by the
shortage of trained manpower at various processing locations. The constraints would be overcome through
appropriate training of ESE staff by NSIA. Training would, in addition to seed processing, include seed packaging
and seed labeling. NSIA would formulate and implement training programs for the staff of private and public
sector organizations to cover the seed processing plant's operation, management and maintenance.
3.14    Seed Quality Control: Seed quality control has to be given the highest attention in any seed system. The
project would finance the upgrading of ESE's headquarters Seed Testing Laboratory (STL) in Addis Ababa, and
the setting up of mini-STLs at each of the five regional units, which would, in accordance with their new mandate,



-18-
be responsible for the production and marketing of most of the seeds within their respective jurisdictions. ESE's
headquarters and regional laboratories are crucial for building a sound internal quality control system. in which a
small percentage of samples tested in the mini-STLs would be routinely re-tested at the headquarters to ensure
consistency in test results. The headquarters laboratory would be responsible for supervision and technical
backstopping of regional mini-STLs; the laboratories would be an effective tool in enforcing seed quality standards
and reducing cases of malpractice.
3.15    Strategic Move Towards Commercialization: Finally, it has been agreed that ESE's strategic move
towards commercialization would include the following: (a) speedy implementation of the ESE restructuring plan.
(b) introduction of appropriate cost control measures and a proper management information system; (c) upgrading
the operational and management capacity of the regional units' staff through systematic training; (d) diversification
of the seed program to include hybrid and vegetable seed production and marketing as per the National Seed
Industry Policy (NSIP); (e) minimization of the transportation costs through a revised strategy involving seed
production and marketing in close proximity to the processing plant, by means of a compact area or a "seed
village" approach; (f) brand image building for product quality; and (g) custom processing as well as testing of
seeds for the private seed growers, as well as state farms, based on the availability of excess capacity and charging
of a fee. While many of these steps would take time to bear fruit, an explicit move in this direction is imperative.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA/ESE would annually review progress of implementation
of the aforementioned strategy. and submit this report to IDA.
3.16    Formal Sector--Encouraging Private Sector Entry in the Seed Business (US$1.0 million): To broaden
participation in the production. processing and marketing of seeds, NSIA would provide support to the
development of private seed enterprises discussed in paras 3.17 and 3.18 and Annex 1. The privately owned seed
enterprise is a new concept in the country, and therefore, role models do not exist. The private sector would need
assistance in preparing feasibility studies and business plans for bankable projects; the Business Development
Specialist in NSIA would provide technical guidance to individuals and entrepreneurs entering the seed production
and/or marketing business. This assistance would be in the forn of consultancy services for techno-economic
feasibility studies to support private sector initiatives in seed production and marketing. The assistance would
include, but not necessarily be limited to (a) mobilization of the private sector through workshops, seminars and
awareness campaigns; (b) assistance to potential entrepreneurs in the formulation and the screening of business
development proposals, in a format suitable for commercial bank financing; (c) advice on appropriate technology
(including equipment); and (d) identification of domestic and international financial institutions willing to support
private sector initiatives in the seed sector. It is worth noting that the private sector will be increasingly involved in
contract seed growing for ESE, as well as in the retailing of ESE seeds. Under the project, the NSIA would
periodically train private seed dealers in seed handling, transportation, storage and marketing.
3.17    Seedsmen: In addition to the informal farmer-to-farmer seed production system (paras 3.8 and 3.9), the
project would provide support to private producer-sellers ("seedsmen"). These could, for instance, be progressive
farmers in a particular locality who build on the farmer-to-farmer seed exchange and cater to localized demand, at
minimal distribution and transport costs. Also, as contract seed growers gain experience in seed production, thev
would provide a consistent, stable source of good quality seed within close proximity of the processing facilities.
Some of the seed growers would, eventually. either individually or in groups, undertake seed production and
distribution on their own. As this process evolves, such independent seed growers would procure basic seeds from
ESE and breeder seeds from the research stations. Furthermore, local entrepreneurs dealing in agricultural inputs
may decide to enter the seed business as seed marketers. This would open new outlets and encourage greater
private sector involvement at the wholesale and retail levels. NSIA would support all such initiatives through a
convenient access to technical know-how, and basic, as well as certified seeds of improved varieties.
3 18    Other Seed Enterprises: In view of the varied agro-ecological conditions in Ethiopia, opportunities exist
for profitable production of hybrids, improved open pollinated varieties (e.g.. maize), and seeds of specialty, high
value crops (e.g., horticulture). The project would provide advisory services to small and medium-scale enterprises
that propose to engage in these categories of seed. It is difficult to estimate at present how many private seed
enterprises would evolve during the project period. However, in view of the interest expressed during project



-19-
appraisal and reappraisal by the private sector in seed multiplication, processing and distribution, it is expected
that ten to twenty, small to medium scale, seed enterprises would be assisted under the project. The viability of
these enterprises would be determined through feasibility studies, under the guidance of NSIA. The intended
beneficiaries under this subcomponent would include partnerships or joint ventures involving both the private and
the public enterprises which may produce seed for the domestic market or for export. NSIA would provide the
enterprises with support during the planning and implementation phase and assist them to secure financing as
appropriate from local commercial banks and/or from development banks. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that (a) NSIA would develop a set of selection criteria for identification of enterprises eligible for
technical assistance and training under the project; and (b) that private sector participants would have equal access
to breeder seed of publicly-bred varieties, to basic seed from ESE, and that they would be free to import seed for
use in the development of new varieties or seed production, as it is consistent with NSIP.
Component II--Capacity Building (US$13.8 million)
3.19    Institutional Strengthening (US$12.0 million): The project would support the strengthening of the
existing regulatory and service institutions in the seed sector and focus thereby on the following institutions:
(a)    National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA): The NSIA, established in July 1993, has the primary
responsibility for seed policies and their effective implementation. The project would support the
strengthening of NSIA, which is a nascent institution, by providing equipment and furniture,
vehicles and technical assistance. This is expected to enable NSIA to provide a range of services
to all levels of seed industry including: (i) identification of equipment and seed processing
facilities required by the village-level schemes, the seedsmen and other enterprises; (ii) assistance
to seed enterprises to develop bankable business plans; (iii) launching quality seed awareness
programs; (iv) providing linkage among the various segments of the seed sector; (v) developing
promotional materials that would be used by the agricultural extension as well as the seed
producing and marketing enterprises; (vi) identifying appropriate training opportunities and
organizing training courses for personnel from all segments of the seed sector; and (vii)
performing an important liaison function between fledgling seed entrepreneurs and the banking
sector with the capacity to provide technical assistance to both parties. A very important
responsibility of NSIA would be to pilot the entire Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme in
close collaboration with regional agricultural bureaus, PGRC, the research institutions, ESE and
MOA. NSIA would be staffed with experts in Business Development, Seed Quality Control &
Certification, Seed Technology, Seed Processing, Industry-wide Promotion and Human Resource
Development. An agreed organizational structure for NSIA with key positions is attached as
Annex 7. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that recruitment of key NSIA staff
would be completed, and that the terms of reference and remuneration of all Project Coordination
and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) staff would be satisfactory to IDA; this would be a condition for
credit effectiveness.
(b)    National Variety Release Committee (NVRC):  The Government has recognized that an
efficient mechanism for variety evaluation, release and registration is fundamental to the success
of the seed systems in Ethiopia. NVRC's criteria for release of a variety has been revised to
include the evaluation and registration of privately developed varieties. The revised guidelines.
which include defined objectives and responsibilities of the NVRC, were approved by the
National Seed Industry Council (NSIC) in December 1993. The project would provide funds to
cover incremental recurrent costs, as well as the costs of workshops, seminars, publications and
one full-time staff in NSIA to handle the day to day activities of NVRC. The NVRC would
publish yearly a seed /variety register. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the first
annual seed/variety register, listing both the varieties in production and those withdrawn from
production, would be published before the end of the first project year, and that the register would
be up-dated in each of the subsequent project years.



-20-
(c)    Plant Quarantine Service (PQS): A new quarantine legislation and regulation has been put
into effect by TGE in October, 1992 with a view to minimizing the risk of entry of serious pests
and plant diseases into Ethiopia. The recent reorganization of PQS necessitates the streamlining
of working procedures between the headquarters and field stations. The project would provide
vehicles and cover the incremental recurrent costs associated with their operation and
maintenance. During project implementation an assessment would be made regarding the
prospects for further investment in the plant quarantine service. The adequacy of the plant
quarantine arrangements, as implemented under the new regulations would be subject to mid-
term review. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PQS would establish and
implement uniform and effective inspection and detection procedures before June 30, 1996.
(d)    Plant Genetics Resource Center (PGRC): Support to the PGRC under the project would
involve the construction of storage and drying rooms at PGRC headquarters, and the supply of
machinery and equipment and vehicles, in addition to the associated incremental recurrent costs.
(e)    Research and Development Institutes: At present, the Alemaya University of Agriculture
(AUA) and the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) are the only two plant breeding
institutions in the country. Assured supply of breeder seed of satisfactory quality and in adequate
quantity is of crucial importance for the development of a healthy and dynamic seed sector. The
project would provide for the upgrading of AUA's breeder seed stations at Alemaya and Debre
Zeit. Upgrading would include civil works, laboratory and other equipment, computers, cooling
equipment for a cold storage room, generator sets, and a very limited number of vehicles and
furniture. In addition, the project would provide technical assistance in the form of short faculty
visits for seed technology, incremental operation and maintenance costs, salaries and wages and
other recurrent costs for office and laboratory supplies. Similarly, the project would upgrade
each one of the seven breeder seeds units of IAR located at Holetta, Melkassa, Bako, Awassa,
Kulumsa, Adet and Melka Werer. This would include seed stores, conditioned storage rooms,
seed drying floors, the supply of agricultural machinery, equipment and furniture, and a few
vehicles, as well as funding for incremental operation and maintenance costs, associated with the
proposed investments, and salaries of technicians recruited for breeder seed production.
(f)    Quality Control and Seed Certification: The project would fund the establishment of a full-
fledged national quality control and seed certification system, including an independent National
Seed Testing Laboratory under NSIA.
(g)    National Seed Reserve:  Many parts of Ethiopia are chronically drought-prone, and this
continually endangers food security and aggravates poverty for a vast section of the population.
In the first Project year, NSIA would work out the details of the National Seed Reserve Stock
Scheme and would be assisted in this particular task by a consultant who would work in close
collaboration with PGRC, IAR, AUA, ESE, the Food Security Reserve Administration (FSRA)
and the regional agricultural bureaus. The terms of reference for the national seed reserve stock
study are shown in the Annex 2. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (i) NSIA
would get the seed reserve study completed, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, before
the end of the first project year; and (ii) the report would be reviewed jointly by IDA and the
Government.
(h)    Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE): The details of the proposed institutional strengthening of
ESE are discussed in paras 3.10-3.15.
3.20    Human Resource Development (US$1.8 million):  Human resource development would comprise
technical assistance and training. Development of human resources is critical to the success and sustainability of
the project. The project would essentially be managed by Ethiopians with very limited expatriate technical
assistance, local technical assistance and training, and some overseas training in the form of fellowships.



-21-
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would be the focal point for organizing and coordinating
all technical assistance and training programs as well as foreign fellowships, funded under the project. A brief
description of the activities to be carried out in the context of the development of human resources is given below:
(a)    Technical Assistance: Short-term technical assistance would be arranged to assist local staff in
(i) the preparation of specifications of equipment and machinery needed to rehabilitate seed
processing facilities, formulation and implementation of training programs, and organizing
workshops to train staff in the repair, operation and maintenance of seed processing and storage
facilities; (ii) advising private seed enterprises in the selection of appropriate seed processing
equipment; (iii) defining a marketing strategy and preparing a comprehensive action plan which
would, inter alia, include market promotion, staff and dealer training, and possibly
demonstrations and farmers field days; (iv) developing management information systems for the
seed sector; and (v) training staff for managing seed processing, packaging and storage
operations. The project would also arrange for the technical assistance required to help NSIA
develop some streamlined procedures and systems so that it could quickly familiarize itself with
IDA supervision, procurement and disbursement procedures as well as its reporting requirements.
Annex 8 contains details on Technical Assistance.
(b)    Training: The Project would provide for local training and workshops, details of which are
shown in Annex 8 and Annex 9, Attachment 3. Much of the training would be on-the-job
training. However, some formal training would be necessary to suit specific requirements. NSIA
would play an important role in organizing training in the areas of seed production, processing,
packaging and storage, inventory control, and repair and maintenance of seed processing
equipment. To improve sustainability, AUA's undergraduate programs in crop science and seed
technology would be strengthened. Under the project, provisions would be made to increase the
elective courses for graduate programs. Similarly, provisions would be made to enhance the
skills of teaching and research staff at AUA.
(c)    Foreign Fellowships:   Availability of qualified seed technologists in research stations,
agricultural universities, ESE and other seed enterprises would accelerate the development of the
seed industry. Given that AUA does not have qualified and experienced faculty to handle all the
subdisciplines of seed technology, forward planning is important for the country. The project
would sponsor one Ph.D and five M.Sc's (four of which would be fully funded by TGE) in seed
technology.



-22-
IV. THE PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
4.1       The base costs of the project are US$27.0 million, which includes US$0.8 million of Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) finds; physical contingencies would amount to US$2.6 million and price contingencies to US$2.2
million. Total project costs would therefore be US$31.8 million, inclusive of the Birr equivalent of US$2.7 million
in taxes and duties. Foreign exchange requirements of the Project would total US$13.1 million, equivalent to 41
percent of total project costs. The project costs are summarized by components in Table 4.1 below:
Table 4.1
Project Costs Summary
(USS million)
Component                                              Local       Foreign      Total      Share of Foreign    Share of Base
________________________________    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~%Cost %
1. Seed Enterprise Development:                           7.8         6.7         14.4             46                53
1.1 Informal Sector                                    3.9          0.4         4.3              9                16
1.2 - Formal Sector                                    3.9          6.2        10.1             61                37
11. Capacity Building:                                    7.9          3.9         11.7             33               43
11.1 Institutional Strengthening                       6.9          3.4        10.2             33                38
Support to Regulatory & Service Agencies              5.7          1.6         7.2              22               27
Support to Research & Development Institutes          1.2          1.8         3.0              60                11
11.2 Human resource Development                        1.0          0.5         1.4             36                 5
Support to Regulatory & Service Agencies              0.4          0.1         0.4              25                 I
Support to Research & Development Institutes          0.5          0.2         0.7              29                3
Support to Others                                     0.1          0.2         0.3              63                 I
III. PPF:                                                   -          0.8         0.8             100                 3
Total Base Costs                                        15.7        11.3        27.0             42                100
(of which ESE)                                        (4.7) a/     (4.6)        (9.4)
Physical Contingencies                                  1.6          1.0         2.6             39                 10
Price Contingencies                                     1.4          0.7         2.2             33                 8
Total Project Costs                                     18.7         13.1       31.8             41                118
(of which ESE)                                         (5.7)        (5.6)      (11.3)
Note: a/ text and values within parenthesis refer to Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE) only



-23-
B. Project Financing
4.2     The Project would be financed from three distinct sources. These sources are (a) IDA, to provide US$22.0
million; (b) TGE, to provide the Birr equivalent of US$4.1 million; and (c) ESE, to provide the Birr equivalent of
US$5.7 million. IDA and TGE would enter into a Development Credit Agreement; TGE would on-lend US$5.6
million of IDA funds to ESE, as per Subsidiary Credit Agreement. IDA funds which are on-lent by TGE to ESE
correspond to the full foreign exchange requirements of ESE's investment. ESE's total funding requirements under
the project are equivalent to US$1 1.3 million, of which US$7.8 million is for investment and the Birr equivalent of
US$ 3.5 million in recurrent costs (both investment and recurrent costs, including taxes and duties).
4.3     IDA would contribute 69 percent of total project costs. IDA funds would be used to cover 10() percent of
foreign expenditure by government institutions for equipment (including laboratory benching, but excluding office
fiurniture), and vehicles: 100 percent of technical assistance, training (including fellowships) and studies, and 100
percent of the estimated foreign exchange content of government expenditure for civil works, equivalent to 60
percent of total costs. IDA would further fiancc up to US$2.9 million towards the establishment of a National
Strategic Seed Reserve. Incremental recurrent costs of the Govcrnment would be financed bv IDA on a declining
scale, starting with 100 percent in the first and the second project years, and 50 percent in the project years
thereafter. IDA would not finanice any of the taxes and/or duties.
Table 4.2
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source                                      Aunount                       Share of'l'otal
IDA                                         22.0                              69%                 l
TGE                                          4.1                              13%
ESE a'                                       5.7                             18%
l'otal                                 31.8                             100%
Note a"/  the USS 11.3 million proposed investmiient ofthe Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE) would be financed for
US$5.6million provided by IDA to TGE. and on-lent by TGE to ESE, and US$ 5.7 million provided
from ESE's own resources in Birr equivalent
4.4     Funds of the Association would be used to cover 10()  percent of the foreign exchange required for
investment by ESE: in the case of civil works, this corresponds to an estimated average of 50 percent of total costs
of civil works (in which zero percent is financed for land acquisition). IDA funds would further be used to cover
100 percent of the foreign, and 85 percent of local expenditures for equipment, furniture (including laboratory
benching, but excluding office furniture) and vehicles. IDA would also finance 100 percent of the technical
assistance, training (including fellowships) and studies. None of the IDA funds would be used for incremental
recurrent cost financing of seed enterprises, be it public (ESE) or private nor taxes.
4.5     TGE would contribute 13 percent of total project costs to cover all taxes and duties related to government
expenditure, the estimated local currencv content of the works envisaged for government entities, as well as the
balance of the Government's recurrent costs. ESE would ensure finance for all of the local expenditures, including
all taxes and duties, related to investment and all of the incremental recurrent costs, to total the Birr equivalent of
US$5.7 million, or about 18 percent of total project costs.
4.6     The project costs are summarized by components in the Annex 3, exclusive of the PPF funds. It follows
from that table that IDA would finance 60 percent (US$10.4 million) of Component I--Seed Enterprise



-24-
Development; the IDA would finance about 80 percent (US$10.8 million) of Component II- Capacity Building.
TGE would finance about 8 percent (US$1.3 million) of Component 1, and about 20 percent (US$2.8 million) of
Component II. ESE would contribute 32 percent (US$5.6 million) towards the financing of Component I and an
insignificant amount, in terms of taxes and duties for human resource development expenditure, under Component
II. The PPF total is about US$0.8 million.
C. Procurement
4.7    General: It is anticipated that about US$8.3 million (or about 26 percent of total project costs) would be
awarded under international competitive bidding procedures (ICB). Another US$8.4 million (or 26 percent of total
project costs) would be procured by applying local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Other procurement
procedures (including shopping, direct contracting, consulting services, and incremental recurrent costs) would
total US$11.4 million (or about 36 percent of total project costs). IDA procurement procedures would not apply to
contracts worth US$3.7 million (or approximately 12 percent of the total project costs), which represent cases
where all of the investment and/or recurrcnt costs would be financed by TGE or ESE.
4.8    IDA guidelines for procurement would be followed whenever IDA funds are used, regardless of the
percentage of financing provided by IDA for a particular procurement package; the Bank's standard bidding and
contract documents would be used for all ICB and consulting services. Two distinct entities would be responsible
for the procurement under the project. These entities are (a) NSIA; and (b) ESE. Procurement by ESE would be
subject to supervision by NSIA and would follow IDA guidelines for procurement.
4.9    NSIA would handle all procurement for civil works, goods (equipment, vehicles, furniture and grains)
destined for the agency itself (including PCMU), the National Strategic Seed Reserve, the Plant Genetic Resource
Center (PGRC), the Plant Quarantine Service (PQS), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) including the Secondary
Seed Multiplication Scheme (SSMS), Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA), and the Institute of Agriculture
Research (IAR); NSIA would also handle all training, technical assistance and studies provided under the project.
ESE would handle procurement for works, goods and consultancies, identified for the enterprise under the project.
4.10   Works: It is anticipated that a total of about US$2.6 million would be awarded under the project for civil
works (about 8 percent of total project costs); all contracts estimated above US$300,000 would be by ICB, while
contracts below this value, LCB would be followed. The category works includes the construction of stores and
other civil works identified for the breeder seed units of the research institutes and the university, the
construction/rehabilitation of limited regional office space at ESE's processing plants, and laboratories for seed
quality testing (at ESE headquarters and regional processing plants, and for the National Seed Testing Laboratory
under NSIA). The category works also includes a provision for the land development at a basic seed farm (if
concluded feasible) which would be operated by ESE; value of land development contracts would total US$0.9
million (or about 3 percent of total project costs), and each of the anticipated contracts would be less than
US$300,000. The civil works are widely scattered and, individually, of rather insignificant scale in terms of
individual contract value, since contracts would in all cases be less than US$150,000 each. Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures would be applied for civil works as the interest of foreign contractors is not likely, and
contractors from within the country would provide adequate competition; however, foreign bidders would be
allowed to participate if they choose to do so; the same approach applies to the land development contracts.
4.11   Goods: It is anticipated that about US$14.9 million (or about 47 percent of total project costs) worth of
goods would be procured under the project. The category goods include seeds and (seed) grains worth the Birr
equivalent of US$2.9 million for the National Strategic Seed Reserve, equipment in the form of seed processing
equipment for ESE, seed storage and processing equipment for the basic and breeder seed producing units of the
AUA and the IAR, a wide range of agricultural equipment (including equipment and tools to be distributed under
the SSMS to the farmers and the extension workers), laboratory and office equipment and furniture, as well as
vehicles for NSIA, the implementing agencies, and ESE. It is anticipated that US$8.3 million worth of goods (or



-25-
26 percent of total project costs) would be procured under ICB all with single contract valuCs Cxcccdinlg
US$100,000; US$5.9 million worth of goods (or about 19 percent of total projcct costs) would be procurcd und(er
LCB, and individual contracts would in these cases not exceed the US$100,000 threshold; a total of US( 6*r milliorl
(or about 2 percent of total project costs) for parts of proprietary nature, earmarked specifically for thc
rehabilitation of ESE's seed processing plants, would be procured under direct contracting. A minor pan of goods
consisting exclusively of office furniture, and with a total value of about US$0.1 million (and thus less than o c
percent of total project costs), would be financed for the full 100 perccnt by TGE and ESE. and would, thcreforc
not be subject to IDA procurement procedures.
Table 4.3.
Procurement Arrangements a/ b/
(USS million)
Procurement Category                 ICB            LCB           Other         N.B.F. c/            Total
A. Works:
- Civil Works                                       1.7                                               1 .7
(1. 1)                                           (1 1)
- Land Development                    -             0.9            -                                 0.9
(0.4)                                            (0.4)
B. Goods:
- Equipment                          4.6            2.9           0.6                                8.1
(3.8)          (2.8)         (0.5)                              (7.2)
-Vehicles                            3.7            0.1                            -                 3.8
(2.4)          (0. )                                            (2.4)
- Fumiture                                           -                            0.1                0.1
- Seeds and Gains                                   2.9            -               -                 2.9
(2.9)                                            (2.9)
C. Consultancies
- Training                                                         1.8                                1.8
(1.8)                             (1.8)
- Technical Assistance                                             1.0                                1.0
(1.0)                             (1.0)
- Studies                                                          I 1                                1.1
l                                                  ~~~~          ~~                   ~~~~~ ~~~~~(1.1)  (1.1)I
D. Miscellaneous:
- Incremental Recurrent Costs                                     6.0             3.6                9.6
(3.4)                             (3.4)
E. PPF                                                                0.8             -                  0.8
(0.8)                             (0.8)
Total                         8.3             8.4           11.4           3.7                31.8
(6.2)          (7.3)         (8.5)                             (22.0)
Note:
a! All figures within parenthesis refer to IDA financing;
bl Procurement arrangements for ESE. are shown separately in Annex 5
c/ Non-Bank Financed.



-26-
4.12 The project would further provide vehicles for both the Government and for ESE. Government vehicles are.
with the exception of a few passenger cars for NSIA, mostly pick-ups and four-wheel-drive station wagons which
are to be used for field work; a provision is made for mules and for bicycles for the extension agents. A total of ten
large trucks would, in addition to pick-ups, be provided to ESE. Total procurement of vehicles and other modes of
transport amounts to US$3.8 million (or about 12 percent of total project costs), all of which would be procured by
ICB, as individual contract values would exceed US$100,000; provision would be made, however, to procure up to
US$50,000 worth of transport animals under local shopping procedure.
4.13    Consultancies:  The category of consultancies, totaling US$3.9 million (or about 12 percent of total
project costs) comprises training: technical assistance, and studies. Training would consist of ooth overseas
fellowships and local training. The total expenditures for training amount to US$1.8 million (or 6 percent of total
project costs). A total of US$1.0 million (or about 3 percent of total project costs) is budgeted for technical
assistance; studies would amount to US$ 1.1 million (or about 3 percent of total project costs). Training would be
subject to agreed procedures according to a workplan requiring clearance by IDA. and to be prepared on an annual
basis; the training plans would have to identify candidates, their curriculum vitae (if applicable), type, place.
timing and costs of the training. Technical assistance and studies would be procured in accordance with IDA's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".
4.14    Miscellaneous: Incremental recurrent costs of the project would total about US$9.6 million (or about 30
percent of total project costs). About US$3.6 million of recurrent costs (or about 11 percent of total project costs)
would be Non-Bank-Financed (N.B.F.) and refers exclusively to the incremental recurrent costs of ESE. A total of
US$0.2 million recurrent costs (or less than 0.5 percent of total project costs) would be procured under shopping
arrangements and relates to purchase of specific consumables for the laboratories. The remaining US$5.8 million
of incremental recurrent costs (or about 18 percent of total project costs) falls in the procurement category "N.A."
incremental salaries and maintenance of vehicles, etc., for the government entities only, classified under
procurement method "Other" in Table 4.3.
4.15    Annual Procurement Work Program and Procurement Monitoring: An overall Annual Procurement
Work Program (APWP) would be prepared by NSIA in consultation with ESE and all other government
agencies/institutions which are to implement the project. The APWP would contain details with respect to each
agency/institution and ESE on (a) items to be procured and expenditure category: (b) procurement packages; (c)
estimated cost per package; (d) proposed procurement method; (e) implementation schedule for procurement: while
(f) Annual Training Program (ATP), to be prepared by the NSIA, would be integrated into the APWP and should
contain budget, implementation schedule, and other details to be specified and agreed upon. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that NSIA would prepare and submit a draft of the first APWP, as a part of its first
annual work program, prior to credit effectiveness, and that this draft would be finalized during the Project Launch
Workshop. It was further agreed that subsequent APWP's would be submitted at least two months in advance of the
project year and that NSIA would finalize Standard Bidding Documents as a condition for project effectiveness.
4.16    The NSIA would. in addition to the physical and financial quarterly progress reports for the project as a
whole, prepare, for each period of 6 months, the Procurement Progress Report (PPR). The PPRs would each be
submitted to IDA within 30 days from completion of the semester. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that a suitable format for such reports would be agreed with NSIA during the Project Launch Workshop. The PPR
would, inter alia, contain the following information:
(a)    Awarded contracts: by (i) Project component and/or sub-component; (ii) contract number and
date; (iii) method of procurement; (iv) the name of the country of the successful bidder; (v) value
and currency of the contract; (vi) major expenditure category; and (vii) expected and actual date
of contract completion; and (viii) expected and actual dates of receipt of goods.
(b)    Procurement in Process: (i) Project component and/or sub-component; (ii) total funds allocated
and name of procurement package; (iii) planned and actual dates of inviting bids; (iv) date of



-27-
opening of bids; (v) date of planned and actual submission of bid evaluation report to IDA; (vi)
date of clearance by IDA, and (vii) date of award of the contract, name of the
contractor/supplier/consultant, and value of the contract.
(c)    Procurement Processing Time: At negotiations standard processing time for procurement
activities were agreed upon with TGE. and these standard times would be considered in the
Annual Procurement Work program.
4.17   Procurement Review by IDA: All contracts with an estimated value in excess of US$100,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. It is anticipated that this would cover about 65 percent of all contracts.
For contracts of a value equal or less than this threshold, a selective ex-post review (I out of 5) would take place
during project supenrision. All terms of reference for technical assistance and training would be subject to IDA's
prior review; consulting contracts with firms in excess of US$100,000. assigned by competitive bidding, and with
individuals in excess of US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review, as would all single source contracts
with firms.
D. Disbursement and the Special Account
4.18    Disbursement: The project would have a life of five years. A longer duration is not planned because the
project involves (a) a limited amount of usually slow disbursing civil works; and (b) large amounts of goods and
vehicles, to be procured mainly in large contracts. Further, the project provides for expert services to strengthen
procurement capabilities of NSIA. No particular problems are anticipated with the procurement by ESE as this
enterprise would benefit from consultation and supenrision with NSIA in procurement matters. It appears
reasonable to assume that the seed enterprise development and the capacity building components would be
implemented according to schedule. The IDA credit of US$22.0 million is expected to become effective in July
1995, and would close 66 months later, in the year 2000. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements is in Annex 4.
4.19    The Special Account: Two special accounts would be established, on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. The first special account would be held in the name of the project by NSIA, and would be maintained in US$
in a commercial bank acccptable to the Association. IDA would make an initial deposit up to US$1.0 million into
the special account and thus establish a revolving fund to cover expenditures of NSIA and all the other
implementing government agencies/institutions, except for ESE. The special account would be replenished
monthly in accordance with established IDA disbursement procedures. Replenishments would be made against
fully documented withdrawal applications prepared by NSIA. The special account would be used for contracts
amounting to less than US$100,000 and replenishment would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure
(SOE). The project would, to the extent possible, use the direct method of disbursement for contracts with a value
in excess of US$100,000 to ensure liquidity of the special account. NSIA would retain supporting documentation
on the SOE for inspection by auditors and IDA missions.
4.20    A second special account would be opened along the same lines as described for NSIA's account above.
The second special account would be held by ESE, and would be used to facilitate disbursement for this enterprise.
The Association would again make an initial deposit of up to US$1.0 million; the special account would be used
for contracts worth US$200,000 or less and replenishments would be made on the basis of SOEs. For contracts of
higher value the direct method of disbursement would be used. ESE would retain supporting documentation on the
SOE for inspection by NSIA, auditors and IDA.



-28-
Table 4.4
Summary Disbursement Schedule IDA Credit
(Amount in US$ million)
Category                    Amount       Amount All       Total               % of Expenditure Financed
For      Excluding ESE    Amount
ESE Only
1. Works:
- Civil Works                 0.7            0.7           1.4        50% of total ESE, 60% of total Non-ESE
2. Goods:
-Equipment                    2.6            3.8           6.4      100% offoreign and 85%of local
- Vehicles                     1.5           0.7           2.2      100% of foreign and 85% of local
- Seeds and Grains            0.0            2.7           2.7        90% of total
3. Consultancies:
-Training                      0.2           1.3           1.5       1 00% of total
-Technical Assistance         0.1            0.9           1.0      100%oftotal
-Studies                      0.1            1.0           1.1       100% of total
4. Miscellaneous:
- Recurrent Costs a/          0.0            3.1           3.1       90% in PY I and PY2, 50% in PYs thereafter
5. PPF                           0.0            0.8           0.8
6. Unallocated                   0.5            1.3           1.8
Total                         5.6           16.4          22.0
Note: a] All stands for all government Agencies, ESE and the private sector seed operators
E. Accounts and Audit
4.21     The management, accounting and budgeting of the project would be entrusted to NSIA which would,
therefore, coordinate all financial transactions including disbursement requests generated by government entities
and ESE. NSIA would maintain for this purpose separate records reflecting specific disbursements to the various
implementing agencies/institutions of the Government and ESE.
4.22     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would maintain all project records in accordance
with internationally-accepted standards, whereby the agency would put in place the project's financial management
and accounting system for itself and for the implementing agencies. The accounts would be audited annually by an
external auditor, acceptable to the Bank. The audit would comprise the auditor's report on the project accounts
(including balance sheet, operating expenditure statement and sources and applications of funds), the special
account and the statement of expenditures with respect to the implementing agencies, and the financial statements
of ESE. The audited accounts, including those of ESE, would be submitted to the Association within six months
from the close of the fiscal year, to assure that accounts are maintained in conformity with IDA's requirements.
The project would reserve funds for NSIA to receive assistance from a local accounting firm, acceptable to IDA, to
help set-up the financial management and accounting system for the Project.



-29-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Overall Responsibility
5.1    The overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with the National Seed Industry Agencv
(NSIA), set-up by TGE in July 1993 in accordance with TGE's National Seed Industry Policy. NSIA is expected to
provide effective national guidance and the institutional linkages necessary to secure the overall development of the
seed sector. NSIA works under a policy advisorv body, the National Seed Industry Council (NSIC). NSIC is the
apex institution for the seed sector with primary responsibility for providing policy and national guidance,
reviewing and monitoring the overall development and promoting capacity building. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that NSIC would review the implementation progress of the project at regular intervals,
preferably once a quarter, and resolve bottlenecks, if any, that may impede progress. The General Manager of
NSIA would be the counterpart of IDA's Task Manager for the Project. A small Project Coordination and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU) would be set up. within NSIA for the duration of the project, to have a focal point for
the Seed Systems Development Project (SSDP).
B. Project Implementation Plan
5.2    General: A preliminary Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is shown in Annex 9. The PIP outlines the
implementation arrangements, as well as the Project Implementation Schedule for each component of the project,
in Attachment 1 of Annex 9. Key Monitorable Indicators are shown in Annex 9, Attachment 2. The Project
Supervision Plan, describing TGE and IDA roles, is shown in Annex 10. Procurement Packages, duly classified
according to procurement categories, are shown in Annex 11. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
NSIA would follow the implementation arrangements as described in Annex 9--Project Implementation Plan.
5.3    The project would be implemented by several agencies, but NSIA would bear the overall responsibility,
including project coordination by its PCMU; this unit would have a monitoring, reporting and facilitating role, and
would ensure: (a) maintenance of proper project accounts by each implementing agency; and (b) orderly and timely
submission of withdrawal applications, and finalization of periodical reports and other information requested by
IDA. This PCMIU arrangement is expected to ensure better sustainability of the seed sector development, including
development of a competitive seed marketing system, and capacity building programs. Expenditures for salaries of
PCMU staff, to be recruited on a contract basis for the life of the project, would be covered by IDA. In addition,
the IDA credit would play a significant role in providing resources for upgrading office technology, improving
mobility and for capacity building within NSIA and the other implementing agencies.
5.4    National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA): Assurances were obtained during negotiation that NSIA, and
PCMU within NSIA, would be staffed as per the agreed Organizational Chart shown in Annex 7, and TGE would
provide adequate office accommodation. The recruitment of all PCMU staff, plus at least a SSMS specialist, a
procurement officer, a training specialist and a business specialist is a condition of credit effectiveness. Further, the
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of staff in the PCMU would be satisfactory to IDA.
Further, assurances were obtained by IDA during negotiations that the Government would provide adequate office
facilities and timely budgetary and staffing support to NSIA, so that the latter can undertake assigned project
responsibilities in a timely and efficient manner.
5.5    NSIA would have overall responsibility for design and implementation of two major sub-components,
wvith the full cooperation of the concerned agencies. These subcomponents are (a) the Secondary Seed
Multiplication Scheme (SSMS), under the informal sector seed enterprise development; and (b) the Support to
Private Sector Development, under the formal sector seed enterprise development, particularly when it comes to
promoting the role of seedsmen and other small- to medium-scale seed enterprises (paras 3.17 and 3.18 and Annex
9). Towards this end, NSIA would hire qualified experts (consultants), would formulate workplans and timetables



-30-
for action, install a monthly review mechanism to monitor progress of the various project components, and would
address emerging problems by seeking solutions. NSIA would also be responsible for organizing the Feasibility
Study on the National Seed Security Stock Reserve, with particular focus on the chronically drought-prone areas;
NSIA would further ensure that arrangements for implementation of the agreed recommendations are in place.
5.6    Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would (a) organize, in coordination with the
Government and IDA, a Project Launch Workshop to help the borrower complete remaining actions promptly, and
to familiarize the borrower and the implementing agencies with Bank procedures, especially procurement,
disbursement, reporting. and auditing; (b) organize an annual national workshop on seed with active participation
of research and extension staff, the Regional Agricultural Bureaus, ESE, the private seed producers and/or
marketers, and representatives of farmers, with the objective to review progress of the project in the preceding year,
and outline the program for the upcoming year; (c) organize a workshop on procurement and disbursement; (d)
maintain a close liaison with the Regional Agricultural Bureaus, by organizing quarterly meetings, as well as a
number of field visits; (e) make arrangements for a Mid-Term Project Review (not later than six months from the
close of Project Year 2) to evaluate physical, financial and institutional achievements for each component and
agree on the actions to be taken for the remainder of the project life; (f) make arrangements for the annual audit, by
external auditors satisfactory to IDA, of project accounts (including special accounts and statements of
expenditure) for NSIA and the implementing agencies, and submit the audit report to IDA within six months from
close of the fiscal year; and (g) coordinate all technical assistance, training and studies. NSIA would further set
up, with appropriate assistance of a local accounting firm, a proper accounting system for itself as well as for the
implementing agencies; the existence of such system is a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.7      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would submit, two months prior to the start of
each project year, the Annual Workplan of the Project and would further ensure implementation of such plan once
it has been approved by IDA. The Annual Workplan of the Project would include (a) the Annual Procurement
Workplan (APWP); (b) staff deployment; (c) details of technical assistance and studies to be arranged during the
year, with target dates for approval of terms of reference, short lists, appointments and execution of the tasks; (d)
details of the training program for the year, whereby specific details would be provided for local training (type of
training, location, proposed date, number of beneficiaries and trainers, whereby the latter would be identified by
name, discipline and institution, and estimated costs) and overseas training (name of the trainees, their curriculum
vitae, field of study and justification of the course, period and place of training, as well as the estimated cost; and
(e) details of expenditure projection by quarters, source of funding (Government, IDA, other donors), and required
flow of funds from the Government with target dates for release. The Workplan for Project Year 1 would be
submitted to IDA prior to credit effectiveness and finalized during the Project Launch Workshop. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that NSIA would set up a Project Implementation Committee (PIC), with suitable
private sector representatives, to review progress and take appropriate action on a monthly basis.
5.8    Ministry of Agriculture (MOA): MOA would play a critical role in the efficient implementation of the
Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme (para 3.9) and in creating mass awareness, among the farmers, about the
benefits from use of improved seeds. MOA would collaborate closely with NSIA and provide effective guidance to
the regional agricultural bureaus. It would annually set targets for training of peasants through its field extension
staff and ensure efficient implementation of the SSMS. Assurances were obtained during negotiations for MOA to
submit the annual work program for seed sector development (including SSMS), together with a review of the
achievements and problems of the preceding year, to NSIA prior to the start of each project year.
5.9    Ethiopian Seed Entcrprise (ESE):  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ESE would
implement its restructuring plan and furnish six-month progress reports to NSIA/NSIC.  The satisfactory
implementation of the restructuring plan is crucial for the project. Further, ESE would annually prepare a business
plan which would, inter alia, review the physical and financial progress of the previous year and targets for the
following year. The business plan would spell out the progress achieved in the rehabilitation of the regional seed
processing units, the implementation of the enterprise its new marketing strategy and the progress made with the
installation and the operation of the Management Information System. The ESE would further submit six-month
progress reports in agreed formats to NSIA. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ESE would submit



-31-
(a) its annual business plan to IDA through NSIA at least two months prior to the commencement of each project
year, and take IDA's comments into consideration before finalizing it; (b) its annual audited statement of accounts
within six months of the close of each fiscal year; and (c) half-yearly progress reports.
5.10    Breeder Seed Program: IAR and AUA would submit an annual work program to IDA through NSIA for
review each year. The annual work program would include, but not necessarily be limited to, the targets for
breeder seed production, a time table for design, construction and installation of laboratory equipment for breeder
seed units in the research centers, construction of storage facilities and a compact seed laboratory. In addition, both
the institutions would send six-month progress reports to NSIA for onward transmission to IDA, in a format to be
agreed with IDA during Projcct Launch Workshop.
5.11    Private Sector: The Implementation of the Seed Systems Development Project would require active
participation by the private sector. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would ensure that
representatives of the private seed sector, both formal and informal, are given adequate opportunity to participate
in the deliberations of SSDP's Project Implementation Committee. Moreover. both the public and the private sector
would be invited to attend the meetings of NSIC. when SSDP quarterly progress would be reviewed. Further, the
public and the private sector would be represented in all other committees, set up for the implementation of the
project.
5.12    Quality Control Legislation and its Enforcement: While The Ethiopian Standards Authority would
update and/or set up, as appropriate, seed standards, NSIA would process the enactment of a seed law and the
formulation or rules and regulations under the law. The enforcement of the law would be the responsibility of the
Seed Quality Control and Seed Certification Services staff who would be specially trained and empowered to
discharge this responsibility. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from TGE to the effect that the legal
framework for enforcement of quality control and seed certification would be in place by December 31, 1995 and
that, in the meanwhile, all commercial seed would be truthfully labeled on a voluntary basis.
5.13    Regional Bureaus of Agriculture: The newly created regional bureaus of agriculture would play the
most critical role in Project implementation. NSIA and MOA would have to collaborate actively with the regional
administrations, and guide and facilitate project implementation, and ensure that adequate facilities in terms of
equipment and staff training are provided to the agricultural bureaus. This would be particularly important for the
informal sector and for assisting seedsmen (paras 3.8, 3.9 and 3.17). Further, the inputs unit in the regional
agricultural bureaus, to be set up in each region under the Seed Systems Development Project would coordinate
and monitor the implementation of SSMS in the regions.
5.14    Capacity Building: NSIA would coordinate and implement the capacity building component of the
project. The need for technical assistance and the training requirements would be identified systematically and
well before the beginning of each project year by each of the implementing agencies; these requirements would be
reviewed and cleared by NSIA, and detailed arrangements made for efficient implementation.  IDA's prior
agreement would be required for all courses and staff selected for overseas training; the same applies to the
recruitment of expatriate technical assistance as well as foreign study tours, financed under the project. NSIA has
presented preliminary, sufficiently detailed requirements for technical assistance and training for Project Year 1,
during negotiations, the final technical tssistance and training programs would include all comments given by IDA
and would be finalized during the Project Launch Workshop.  Detailed annual requirements for technical
assistance and training would, in subsequent project years, be sent by NSIA to IDA at least one month in advance
of the new project year. Terms of reference for technical assistance and conditions of employment would require
the approval by IDA. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would implement technical
assistance and training in accordance with the outline in Annex 8.
5.15    Reports: Assurances were obtained during negotiations that NSIA would submit quarterly progress
reports in a standardized format, to be agreed during the Project Launch Workshop.



-32-
VI. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Financial Aspects
6.1     General: The financial aspects of the Project have been analyzed separately for the Ethiopian Seed
Enterprise (ESE) and at the farm level. The detailed financial analysis of ESE covers the base year 1994, and
projections for the period 1995 to 2000. The farm level financial analysis relates to the profitability of using
improved seeds only.
6.2    Financial Analysis of the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise: The financial performance of ESE (hitherto
ESC) was poor during the period 1986/87 to 1990/91, when prices of commercial seed and all agricultural produce
were set by the Government. During these years, ESE incurred severe losses, which totaled Biff 3.3 million in
fiscal year 1990/91, thereby eroding the net equity position of the corporation. Financial projections, prepared in
early 1991, at the appraisal stage of the project, were gloomy for the period 1991/92 to 1995/96. It was then
concluded that it would take the enterprise quite some time to restore profitability through adjustments in
management practices and, above all, market conditions. The now outdated projections showed a modest profit of
Birr 0.6 million for the fiscal year 1996/97.
6.3    However, over the past 1991/92 to 1993/94 fiscal years, the financial performance of ESE has been far
better than previously anticipated. The enterprise has, in every year since fiscal year 1991/92 made a profit, and
consolidated its sales at about 15,000 tons of seeds per year; this has resulted in a (provisional) profit (before taxes
and appropriation to Government) of about Birr 3.8 million in the year 1993/94, or the last year for which
historical financial data are available. A summary of ESE's detailed financial position for fiscal year 1993/94 is
shown in the tables of Annex 6 (income statement, sources and applications of funds, and balance sheets); the same
tables include the re-appraisal mission's revised financial projections (in constant prices of 1994) of ESE until the
year 2000. The last audit report of ESE refers to the fiscal year 1991/92; other reports on ESE's financial position
are available only in provisional form. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ESE would have its
accounts audited to include the fiscal year 1993/94; ESE would submit the 1993/94 Audit report and the
provisional accounts for 1994/95 to the Association by July 7, 1995
6.4    For the purpose of financial projections, it is conservatively assumed that the enterprise would maintain
revenues from sales of seed (and by-products) at the 1993/94 level of Birr 45.5 million in all of the years to come
(even though in all probability the turnover of the enterprise may, in terms of sales volume and value, significantly
improve). It is further assumed that the costs of goods produced would, except for incremental costs of operation
and maintenance resulting from investment under the project, remain constant at Birr 33.0 million.
6.5    It is anticipated that ESE would invest, including physical contingencies (in 1994 constant prices and thus
excluding price contingencies), Birr 43.0 million under the project. Part of this investment, totaling Binf 15.6
million, would result from the establishment of a new basic seed farm, once a feasibility study is completed and
conclusions favor such investment. The remaining investment, Biff 27.4 million, follows from the upgrading of
ESE's management and marketing capacity, as well as improvement of its seed processing facilities through
rehabilitation of equipment and strengthening of seed testing facilities.
6.6    It is assumed that Birr 20.9 million, or about 75 percent of the capital outlay of Birr 27.4 million, would
be financed with IDA funds, to be on-lent, by TGE to ESE, to cover the foreign exchange requirements of the
investment. TGE would on-lend the IDA funds to ESE on the following conditions: (a) the loan would bear a
positive interest rate of 10 percent (representing current practice for commercial loans at 14 percent, less inflation);
(b) the loan would be repayable in 10 years in equal annual installments; (c) the first annuity would be payable one
year from loan effectiveness; and (d) the enterprise would bear the foreign exchange risk. It is further anticipated
that ESE would finance Birr 6.5 million, or about 25 percent of the capital outlay of the Birr 27.4 million
investment from its own resources. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the above-mentioned on-
lending terms, and that ESE would finance the remainder investment from its own resources.



-33-
6.7     Overhead costs are maintained in the financial projections at Birr 4.8 million in the years preceding the
completion of the Birr 27.4 million investment; they are assumed to increase by Birr 3.3 million, from 1996
onwards, to cover the incremental costs of operation and maintenance related specifically to the Birr 27.4 million
investment. It was agreed with ESE that the enterprise would clarify its position relating to the outstanding debt
and arrears with the Government (capital charge, short-term loan, and the taxes and contributions payable) by the
end of the fiscal year 1995. Further, it was agreed during negotiations with ESE. that the enterprise would follow a
stricter financial management, allowing to reduce, by the year 2000, accounts receivable and inventories to 60
percent. and accounts payable to about 25 percent of the 1994 levels.
6.8     The financial projections show that profits are expected to average about Birr 0. I million in each of the
years between 1996 and 2000, thereby allowing ESE to slowly rebuild its net equity. More importantly, it is
anticipated that the enterprise would have a satisfactory cash-flow during these years to (a) contribute from its own
resources Birr 6.5 million towards Birr 27.4 million investment foreseen for the year 1996; (b) service its debt; (c)
cover its working capital requirements; and (d) contribute Birr 5.2 million, towards the financing for the
establishment of the (third) basic seed farm from its own resources at a later stage (1998), and also to service an
additional loan of Birr 10.4 million, for the aforementioned basic seed farm, once the feasibility of such a farm is
detailed.
6.9     The financial (net) cash-flow analysis reveals that the Birr 27.4 million investment, proposed by the
project for ESE during the initial years of the project, would yield a (real) rate of return, on all resources employed,
of 8.2 percent. The return on ESE's own resources would be 7.8 percent. Both returns are based on a scenario of a
15 percent annual reduction in revenues in the "Without the Project" situation, due to the gradual deterioration of
the enterprise's production capacity and/or deterioration of the quality of seeds. All of ESE's financial ratios show
satisfactory values. Assurances were obtained during negotiations for ESE to include the financial ratios, as shown
in Annex 6, in the Management Information System and the progress reports.
6.10    Farm  Level Financial Aspects Related to Use of Improved Seeds:  The financial profitability of
improved seed use is expressed in terms of the value cost ratio on the basis of the following assumptions: (a) yields
reflect the technology package as available to the typical peasant farmer; (b) the "Base", or "Without the Project",
situation represents the situation without improved seeds and with negligible use of fertilizer; and (c) the "With
the Project" situation represents the situation with availability of improved seeds, and the same negligible use of
fertilizer as in the "Without the Project" situation.  The use of improved seeds would allow, under the
aforementioned conditions, an increase in the yields of various crops (teff, barley, wheat, sorghum and maize) by as
much as 10 to 15 percent; an average of 12.5 percent is assumed as the yield increase in the analysis hereafter.
The use of improved seeds would allow reduction of seeding rates by as much as 20 percent for all crops except
sorghum; the improved seed, obtained from the formal sector, has been valued at 1.8 times the price of ordinary
grain. The profitability of improved seed use is summarized in Table 6. 1.
6.11    Table 6.1 indicates that the yield increase for a peasant farmer would range from a maximum of 0.15 ton
to a minimum of 0.08 ton per hectare, due exclusively to the use of improved seeds. Incremental costs of
production are a function of seed only when no other inputs are envisaged; the incremental labor costs for
harvesting are valued at zero as the proposed crop budgets reflect the peasant agriculture, where on-farm family
labor is abundant and no use is made of a hired work force. The table further shows that the value cost ratios range
from a maximum of 12 for sorghum to a minimum of 2.3 for barley. The ratios are thus above the threshold value
of two, which is generally accepted as the minimum below which the farmer would not give consideration to the
improved technology.



-34-
Table 6.1
The Value Cost Ratio of Improved Seed for Major Food Crops
(all values in constant prices of 1994)
Crop                        Unit       Without Improved      With Improved        Net Change due to
Seed                Seed              Improved Seed
Teff
yield                                       ton/ha            0.60                0.68                   0.08
gross value of production                   Birr/ha           1200                1360                    160
seed rate                                    kg/ha             30                  25                     -5
cost of seed                                Birr/ha            60                  90                     30
cost of other inputs                        Birr/ha            nil                 nil                     0
net value of production                     Birr/ha           1140                1260                    120
value cost ratio                                                -                  5.3                                  |
Barle
yield                                       ton/ha            0.80                 0.9                    0.1
gross value of production                   Birr/ha           1280                1440                    160
seed rate                                    kg!ha             100                 80                     -20
cost of seed                                Birr,ha            160                 230                    70
cost of other inputs                        Birr/ha            nil                 nil                     0
net value of production                     Birr/ha           1120                1210                    90
value cost ratio                                                -                  2.3                                  l
Wheat
yield                                       ton/ha             1.0                 1.15                  0.15
gross value of production                   Birr/ha           1500                1730                   230
seed rate                                    kg/ha             125                 100                    -25
cost of seed                                Birr/ha            190                 270                    80
cost of other inputs                        Birr/ha            nil                 nil                     0
net value of production                     Birr/ha           1110                1360                    250
value cost ratio                                                -                  2.9                                  l
Sorghum
yield                                       ton/ha             0.9                 1.0                    0.1
gross value of production                   Birr/ha           1080                1200                    120
seed rate                                    kg/ha             10                   10                     0
cost of seed                                Birr/ha            12                  22                     10
cost of other inputs                        Birr/ha            nil                 nil                     0
net value of production                     Birr/ha           1068                1163                    95
value cost ratio                                                -                   12                                  l
Maize
yield                                       ton/ha             1.1                 1.25                  0.15
gross value of production                   Birr/ha           1760                2000                   240
seed rate                                    kg/ha             30                  25                     -5
cost of seed                                Birr/ha            48                  72                     24
cost of other inputs                        Birr/ha            nil                 nil                     0
net value of production                     Birr/ha           1712                1928                   216
value cost ratio                                                -                  10



-35-
B. Economic Aspects
6.12    General: The project's net contribution to the national economy has been calculated by following the
format of a conventional economic cash-flow analysis in which both the costs and the benefits are expressed
exclusive of any form of transfer payments, viz., taxes, duties, subsidies. interest, etc.; tradable goods and services
are shadow priced, while the non-tradables are valued by using market prices. The economic analysis has been
performed in constant prices of 1994.
6.13    Economic Costs: The economic costs of the project. exclusive of taxes, duties, subsidies on investment
and recurrent costs, are summarized, by project components in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2
Econonic Costs of the Project
(Birr million, constant prices of 1994)
Component                                   rotal Economic Project Costs
during the 5 years a/
1.  Seed Enterprise Development                                        133.4
1I.   Capacity Building                                                 75.1
Total costs                                                      208.5
Note: a/ Includes investment and incremental O&M
6.14    Economic Benefits: The economic benefits of the project are tangible and come in the form of the net
value of (incremental) agricultural production, following increased availability and use of improved seeds. There
are three sources of improved seeds under the project. These sources are: (a) the ESE, (b) the Secondary Seed
Multiplication Scheme (SSMS); and (c) seedsmen and small to medium size seed entrepreneurs. The economic
analysis is performed by considering only the impact of ESE and SSMS seeds, due to the uncertainty associated
with the emerging seed entrepreneurs.
6.15    It appears reasonable to assume that every kilogram of seed produced by ESE would benefit from the
important improvements envisaged for internal quality control and the up-grading of the processing facilities
within the enterprise, as well as from improvements in the quality of breeder seed produced by the research stations
and basic seed produced on ESE's farms. Annual seed sales of ESE have stabilized at about 15,000 tons; the sales
could, however, grow to as much as 30.000 tons per year, based on the size of the market. The ESE could cope
with such demand increases by augmenting the area under seed production contracts and by increasing the number
of production shifts at its seed processing plants. The economic benefits relating to ESE seed sales have, however,
been based on average annual seed sales of 15,000 tons only, similarly to the approach used in the financial
analysis of the enterprise.
6.16    The total area to benefit from improved seed produced by ESE is obtained by allowing for a seed rate of
100 kg per hectare; it is further assumed that seed would be replenished by the farmers, on average, only once
every five years. One hundred and fifty thousand hectares would thus benefit annually from the improved seed
originating from ESE, starting in the year following the rehabilitation of the seed processing equipment and the
establishment of the seed testing facilities. The area to benefit from ESE's improved seed (i.e., commercial seed)
would expand each year thereafter with another 150,000 hectares, until the area reaches 750,00 hectares. It is
assumed that (a) improved ESE seed would be available for the first time in Project Year three; and (b) the yield
increase would, on average, be about 100 kilograms per hectare.  This approach results in 15,000 tons of



-36-
incremental production in the third project Year, 30,000 tons in year four, 45,000 tons in year five, and so on, until
the incremental production stabilizes at an annual volume of 75,000 tons in the seventh year from the start of the
project. In economic terms, it is anticipated that the benefits would grow from Birr 27 million in year three. to Birr
135 million in year seven and after.
Table 6.3
Benefits from Improved Seed by Seed Producing Entity
(Birr million)
Year         Benefits due to improved seed from the  Benefits due to improved seed from  Total Benefits due to
ESE                        the SSMS                 Improved Seeds
2                                                      0.1                        0.1
3                        27                            0.2                       27.2
4                        54                            0.4                       54.4
5                        81                            0.8                       81.8
6                        108                           1.4                      109.4
7                        135                           1.9                      136.9
8                        135                           2.3                      137.3
9                        135                           2.7                      137.7
10                       135                           2.9                       137.9
11-15                     135                            2.9                      137.9
6.17     The benefits from the SSMS have been calculated along the same principles as those deriving from the
use of improved seed produced by ESE. In the case of the SSMS, the production of grains would, based on the
distribution of seed mini-packs, be 200 tons by the end of Project Year one, 350 tons by the end of the second
Project Year, 600 tons by the end of the third Project Year, to increase to 1,050 tons by Project Year four, and
further to 1,600 tons by the end of Project Year five. However, not all of the grains thus produced would be
used/exchanged/sold, as seed, by the farmers, who also have to cater to the needs of their families. It is
conservatively assumed that only 20 percent of the incremental grains thus produced would be used as seed in the
subsequent year. Twenty percent of 2,000 hectares (assuming a seed rate of 100 kilograms per hectare) or 400
hectare would thus benefit from improved seed in the second project year as a result of the SSMS, another 1,100
hectares in Project Year three, and so on, until a point is reached where the annual area benefiting from improved
SSMS seed is 16,000 hectares. The SSMS benefits would thus gradually increase from about Biff 0.1 million in
Project Year two, to Birr 2.9 million in Project Year ten, and after.
6.18          Net Cash-flow, Economic Rate of Return, Net Present Value and Benefit Cost Ratio and
Switching Values: The (economic) net cash-flow of the project is shown in Table 6.4. Incremental recurrent
costs are shown separately from investment, while the benefits reflect the values in Table 6.3.
6.19    The economic (internal) rate of return (EIRR) is 36 percent and thus well above the 10 percent cut-off
rate, representing an approximation of the opportunity cost of capital in the country. The NPV is, at a discount
rate of 10 percent, about Birr 410 million. The Benefit Cost Ratio is at the same discount rate of about 3.0. The
switching values, calculated on the basis of a discount rate of 10 percent, are minus 66 percent for total benefits,
and 197 percent for total costs, indicating that there is a substantial margin, both on the benefit and the costs side,
to guarantee that the project meets the minimum level of economic acceptability. It is, therefore, concluded that the
Seed Systems Development Project would contribute significantly to economic growth of the country.



-37-
Table 6.4
Net Cash-Flow
(Birr million)
Total Benefits due to                               Incremental
Year            Improved Seeds           Investment                 Recurrent             Net Cash-flow
l__________________________         C ost
1                    -                    56.9                       9.4                    -66.3
2                   0.1                    31.6                      9 6                     -41.1
3                  27.2                    30.7                      11.0                   -14.5
4                  54.4                    19.1                      11.0                    24.3
5                  81.8                    17.8                      11.4                    52.6
6                  109.4                                             11.4                    98.0
7                 136.9                                              11.4                    125.5
8                 137.3                                              11.4                    125.9
9                 137.7                                              11.4                    126.3
10                 137.9                                             11.4                    126.5
11-15               137.9                                             11.4                    126.5
C. Project Benefits and Sustainability
6.20    Project Benefits: Direct Project benefits would consist of an increase in agricultural productivity and
production. During the project implementation years the benefits would total 90,000 tons of grains; the impact of
the project would continue after project completion and would total about 800,000 tons of additional grains. The
benefits would, on average, reduce the basic food deficit of the country by some six percent. Indirect benefits would
relate to some alleviation of poverty in the areas under SSMS and in improved employment opportunities, not only
in ESE, but also in farming and non-farming, particularly as a result of private sector development in trade. The
project would, further, improve food security in drought-prone areas, and therefore would contribute to poverty
alleviation.
6.21     Project Sustainability:  Project sustainability would, only to a very limited extent, depend on the
Government's budgetary contributions. ESE is an autonomous, commercially-oriented, public enterprise and is, as
such, not entitled to operational grants, or any other form of subsidy from the Government. Moreover, with the
free pricing of seeds, consistent with the national seed policy, no subsidies would be involved. The breeders would
develop an appropriate pricing mechanism to recover their costs from the sales of seeds to ESE and the private
sector; similarly, ESE would charge full costs for basic seed sold to seed growers. The SSMS would be
implemented through the extension staff of the MOA and would, therefore, not pose additional budgetary burdens
on the Government.
D. Project Risks
6.22    There are four main risks associated with the project. The first risk is related to the uncertainties caused
by the ongoing changes in the economic, political, administrative and institutional structures, and the devolution of
powers to the regions. A related risk is that the successor government to TGE could possibly have different
policies. These risks, though real, are not rated high as there are no viable alternatives for TGE, or its successor
government, to change the course or speed of economic reforms. The second risk relates to the possible inadequate
response by the private sector. This risk is not rated high in view of the past two to three years of experience
relating to the private sector entering the agricultural inputs business. The investment required for entering into
the seed business is small when compared to other agricultural inputs, like fertilizers and pesticides. Private



-38-
commercial farms, which came into existence in the last couple of years, have already entered into seed production
contracts with ESE. The third risk is that ESE may not quickly and effectively restructure itself into a slim, viable
and more efficient organization. While the possibilitv of this risk materializing cannot be ruled out, provision has
been made for adequate technical assistance to help ESE. Furthermore, ESE would be required to annually submit
its business plan, which would be reviewed by its Board of Directors, NSIC and IDA. NSIA would have the
responsibility to follow-up, and provide ESE with advice, when necessary. The fourth risk is that NSIA. which is a
nascent institution, may not be able to build up adequate capacity to implement and monitor progress of vanous
agencies. This risk, too, is real. The project, therefore, has appropriate conditionally for NSIA to appoint all the
agreed professional staff prior to credit effectiveness.  It is expected that, because of TGE's demonstrated
commitment to the project, such a contingency may not arise.
E. Environmental Aspects
6.23    The project has been rated Category B for environmental assessment, as the environmental issues to be
addressed are limited and narrow in scope. The main issue relates to pest management and use of pesticides in
seed production and processing. Pesticide use includes seed dressings, applied either at a seed processing plant or
at the user level, to control seed-borne or soil-borne pests and diseases, treatment or fumigation of stored seeds to
control post-harvest pests and diseases, and field application of pesticides to protect growing plants. Currently, the
use of such pesticides is negligible, and there are no sufficient environmental or social dangers to merit a separate
mitigation plan. The recently enacted National Pesticide Legislation is to introduce a pesticide registration scheme
which would set standards for pesticides importation. production and use in Ethiopia. In the meantime, biocide
guidelines and the negative list of pesticides (Annex 13) are considered adequate to handle the environmental
risks. However during the training of farmers and extension agents, emphasis would be placed on the safe
handling and use of all pesticides.



-39-
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a)    NSIC would (i) review at regular intervals, preferably on a quarterly basis, the implementation
progress of the project, including the policy related aspects, and take measures to resolve any
bottlenecks that may impede project progress (para 5.1); and (ii) ensure that both the public and
private sectors are represented in the NSIC, during SSDP review, and in all SSDP committees at
various levels (para 5.11); and (iii) review the progress of ESE's restructunng process at least
once every six months (para 5.9).
(b)    NSIA would assist ESE in implementing its new marketing strategy and would provide training
to the emerging private seed marketers (para 3.5). NSIA would also (i) ensure that the private
sector is encouraged to produce and distribute improved seed, and that the private sector is
engaged in plant breeding, and starts seed enterprises (paras 3.6 and 3.18); (ii) ensure that
selection criteria for the identification of enterprises for technical assistance would be developed
(para 3.18); (iii) ensure that the private sector has unrestricted access to breeder seed of publicly-
bred varieties, that ESE would make available basic seed to the private sector, and that the
private sector has the freedom to import seed for use in the development of new varieties, or for
seed production (para 3.18); and (iv) annually review progress on the implementation of the
strategy towards the commercialization of ESE (para 3.15). The NSIA would further (v) get the
seed reserve study completed, with Terms of Reference satisfactory to IDA, before the end of
Project Year I and reviewed jointly by IDA and TGE (para 3.19 (g) and Annex 9); (vi) agree
upon a suitable format for the semi-annual Procurement Progress Report (PPR) during the Project
Launch Workshop (para 4.16); (vii) organize and coordinate technical assistance, training
programs and foreign fellowships funded under the Project (paras 3.20 and 5.14 and Annex 9);
(viii) finalize the first Annual Procurement Work Plan (APWP) during the Project Launch
Workshop, while subsequent APWPs would be submitted at least two months in advance of the
upcoming Project Year (para 4.15); (ix) hold at regular intervals, preferably quarterly, meetings
with regional administrations at selected places in the country, each for a cluster of contiguous
regions (Annex 9); (x) organize, in coordination with TGE and IDA, a Project Launch Workshop
focusing, inter alia, on procurement, disbursement, reporting, and auditing procedures (para 5.6
and Annex 9); (xi) oversee progress on ESE's restructuring proposal (paras 3.15 and 5.9); (xii) in
conjunction with NSIC, attach a high priority to the creation of a legal framework and ensure
that, to begin with, and until the enactment of a seed law and establishment of appropriate
procedures and systems, all seed marketed by Government agencies, as well as that marketed by
ESE, is truthfully labeled and that seed certification would be on a voluntary basis (para 3.7);
(xiii) put in place appropriate institutional mechanisms for project implementation and establish
a Project Implementation Committee (para 5.7 and Annex 9); (xiv) hold an annual national
workshop on seeds (para 5.6 and Annex 9); (xv) make arrangements for a Mid-Term Review
(para 5.6 and Annex 9); (xvi) arrange for an annual audit of project accounts, including the
special accounts, and submit the audit report, prepared by external auditors satisfactory to the
Association, within six months of the closure of each fiscal year (paras 5.6 and 4.22); (xvii)
maintain all project records according to internationally accepted standards and ensure that
accounts are maintained in conformity with IDA's requirements (para 4.22); (xviii) submit the
Annual Work Plan for the project two months prior to the beginning of the new project year and
ensure its satisfactory implementation after approval by IDA (para 5.7 and Annex 9); (xix)
standardize the format of the progress reports (para 5.15); (xx) finalize the SSMS Work Plan for
Project Year 1, to be approved by IDA, during the Project Launch Workshop and submit
subsequent annual SSMS Work Plans, prepared by the MOA, to the Association at least two
months prior to the start of each Project Year (para 3.9); and (xxi) develop a detailed Operational



-40-
Manual, contribute to the Mid-Term Review and the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
and provide an Operational Plan for continuation beyond the closing date (Annex 9);
(c)     TGE would (i) provide adequate office facilities and staffing budget allowing NSIA  to undertake
the assigned responsibilities for the Project (para 5.4 and Annex 9); (ii) ensure satisfactory
implementation by NSIA of the Project Implementation Plan (para 5.2); (iii) ensure that seed
prices are market determined (para 3.4); (iv) put in place a legislative framework for enforcement
of quality control and seed certification by December 31, 1995 (paras 3.7 and 5.12); (v) license
any interested private foreign seed firms to undertake crop research activities on non-restricted
crops (para 3.6); (vi) ensure that MOA would submit the annual work program for seed sector
development (including SSMS). together with a review of the achievements and problems of the
preceding year, to NSIA prior to each project year (para 5.8); and (vii) onlend IDA funds to ESE
at conditions acceptable to IDA (para 6.6).
(d)     ESE would submit (i) a detailed final restructuring plan and a business plan for the period
covering the first project year: (ii) the annual business plans for the remaining project years, two
months prior to the commencement of the project year, (paras 3.10 and 5.9); (iii) Terms of
Reference for the feasibility study on the third basic seed farm, not later than the start of Project
Year 2 (para 3.11); (iv) submit half-yearly progress reports (para 5.9) in a format to be agreed
with IDA  during the Project Launch Workshop.  ESE would (v) review  the progress of
implementation of the new commercialization strategy, on a regular basis with NSIA (para 3.15);
(vi) submit its audit reports not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year (para 5.9);
(vii) clarify and propose measures to settle its position with regard to its arrears with TGE, by the
end of fiscal year 1995 (para 6.7); (viii) follow strict financial management to reduce accounts
receivable, accounts payable and inventories to acceptable levels (para 6.7); (ix) include the
financial ratios shown in Annex 6 in its MIS and progress reports (para 6.9); (x) update the audit
of its accounts to include the fiscal year 1993/94. and submit these, as well as the provisional
accounts for the fiscal year 1994/95 (para 6.3) to IDA by July 7, 1995; and (xi) confirm
agreement on the onlending terms proposed by TGE and assure the contribution from its own
resources towards the investment as proposed under the Project (para 6.6);
(e)     National Variety Release Committee would publish the first annual seed/variety register, listing
both the varieties in production and those withdrawn from production, in the course of Project
Year 1, and would update this register on an annual basis in each of the subsequent project years
(para 3.19 b)).
(f)     Plant Quarantine Service would establish and implement uniform and effective inspection and
detection procedures, before June 30, 1996 (para 3.19 c)).
7.2    It has been agreed with TGE that the following shall be the conditions of credit effectiveness
(a)     TGE and ESE have entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)     NSIA has (i) filled PCMU's positions listed in para I of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement, with staff whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to IDA, (ii) furnished IDA for review and comments its annual work
program for 1995/96, including procurement. technical assistance and training programs, and
(iii) finalized standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA for procurement under the project.
(c)     ESE has furnished IDA (i) an acceptable action plan for the restructuring of its operations and
management, including key monitoring indicators for its implementation, and (ii) its annual
business plan for 1995, acceptable to IDA.



-41-
(d)    TGE has furnished evidence, that an accounting system, acceptable to IDA has been put in place.
Recommendation
7.3    Subject to the above assurances, the proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 15.2
million (US$22.0 million equivalent) to the Transitional Government of Ethiopia.



- 42 -
FIGURES, ANNEXES AND MAPS
Figure
1.     ETHIOPIA: Long-Term Foodgrain Production and Consumption Trends
Aninex
1.     Pilot Initiative: Private Sector Development
2.     Terms of Reference for Seed Reserve Stock Scheme Study
3.     Project Costs Summary by Components. Financiers and Years
4.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.     Procurement Arrangements and Disbursement Schedule Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
6.     Financial Analysis for the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
7.     NSIA Organization Chart
8.     Technical Assistance and Training
9.     Project Implementation Plan
- Attachment I  Project Implementation Schedule
- Attachment 2 Key Monitorable Indicators
- Attachment 3 Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme - Training Program Outline
10.    Supervision Plan
11.    Procurement Packages
12.    Economic Aspects
13.    Environmental Impact
14.    Documents in Project File
Map   IBRD # 26603R
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise - Current and Proposed Seed Production and Processing Facilities



ETHIOPIA - SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Long-Term Food Grain Production and Consumption Trends
(cereals and pulses)
a
Consumption Tfend
ProducUi  TFend
2                                     Nel Produclion
2
C
Eo                                                          Foodggain Gap
.. d ..U---. ...
-2
-4    I       I   B  I       l I      fi  l I      E   I_ajs            s   a   t   1 _  
75  76  77  76  79  60  61  82  83  64  65  66  ST  so  69  0  91  92  93  94  95                    -
Ciop Yeats ending S.plembN 10



- 44 -                                     Annex I
Page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PILOT INITIATIVE: PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
General Description
1.    In seed program development, the seed requirements of all parties playing a role in agricultural
production have to be met. As far as the crops are concerned, a broad-based distinction can be made
between strategic staple crops like maize, sorghum, teff, wheat, barley, pulses and oilseeds, and high
value crops like vegetables, fruits, flowers, potatoes and hybrid agricultural crops. The former are
grown mainly by the poor peasant population, the latter by the more developed farming communities.
Seed supply of (non-hybrid) staple crops is characterized by low profit margins, whereas seed supply
of high value crops and hybrid staple crops is characterized by relatively high profit margins. To cater
to the seed requirements of the population, the project proposes to develop a diversified approach:
(a)    Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE)-to produce high quality certified or truthfully
labeled seed of staple crops for seed end-users, including input-responsive farmers,
larger scale commercial farms and the peasant sector.
(b)    Secondary Seed Multiplication Schemes (SSMS)-to produce non-certified seed at the
village level, in various organizational models. This seed will be considerably cheaper
than ESE seed, thus catering to the poor peasant farmer end-user, mostly on a barter
basis.
(c)    Seedsmen/Seed  Farmer Groups-to  produce, process and  market commercial
(truthfully labeled) seed of staple crops on a medium scale in competition with ESE.
(d)    Other Seed Enterprises-to produce, process and market certified/truthfully labeled
seeds of different crops. functioning as wholesalers, retailers for ESE certified or
truthfully labeled seed, joint venture seed enterprises, fruit tree/seedling nurseries, etc.
Seedsmen/Seed Farmer Groups
2.     Experience has shown that in countries that have liberalized their seed programs the
production, processing and marketing of high yielding varieties of staple crops is taken up by the
private sector.  Seedsmen, usually leading progressive farmers or local businessmen dealing in
agricultural inputs, and/or small groups of seed farmers may decide to produce seed on a commercial,
medium scale. These developments will be actively stimulated by the National Seed Industry Agency
(NSIA) under the Seed Systems Development Project (SSDP).
3.     The prerequisites for the evolution of seedsmen and seed farmer groups are (a) access to credit
facilities; (b) access to the required technological know-how; (c) access to basic/certified seed of
improved and high yielding varieties; and (d) a market-based pricing system for seed. As seedsmen
and seed farmer groups are likely to produce crops and varieties similar to those of ESE, they will



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
compete with ESE on a regional level. For the developments described above to take place, therefore,
it is essential that ESE prices its seed at non-subsidized market prices, as pricing of public seed below
cost recovery levels will preclude the entry into the seed business by the private sector.
Seed Enterprises
4.     The evolution of various forms of seed enterprises will only occur in a country if and when a
liberal investment climate has been created by the Government. Tax concessions or holidays, free flow
of gerrnplasm (import/export of seeds and other planting materials), market-based pricing of seed and a
liberal marketing system of agricultural products, access by seed enterprises to credit facilities, and the
availability of agricultural inputs and other requirements, are all relevant tools in this context.
5.     Various legal forms of seed enterprises may occur, e.g., local private enterprises, joint
ventures between local and foreign companies, joint stock companies between foreign companies and
local individual/shareholders; registration of foreign companies in Ethiopia to produce seed locally,
solely for export purposes (labor-intensive production of hybrid flower/vegetable seeds); establishment
of local companies which produce seed for export on behalf of foreign seed companies; and
establishment of wholesale and retail agents, etc.
6.     These activities may include any or all of the activities from plant breeding to seed marketing.
The seed supply of crops which have a relatively high profit margin for farmers will consequently be
the seeds on which the private sector will concentrate: forage seeds; vegetable/horticultural seeds;
seed potatoes; hybrid agricultural seeds; fruit tree nurseries; seedling nurseries; and flower seeds.
7.     A minimum of about ten private seed enterprises are expected to be supported under the
proposed project (see para 12).
Credit Facilities
8.     Although a distinction has been made between seedsmen/seed farmer groups and seed
enterprise development, in this section all come under the heading of private sector seed enterprises.
Private sector seed related activities must answer to the criteria of profitability, regardless of crops or
activity involved. Once an "enabling environment" for private seed enterprises has been created, one
of the major conditions for the development of this sector is access to credit facilities. In this regard
NSIA will play a crucial role.
9.     It is difficult to estimate at present how many private seed enterprises will evolve during the
project period, or which activities/crops they will deal with. In this regard, NSIA will have to
function as a catalyst; much therefore depends on the quality and dedication of NSIA staff.
10.    The basic requirement for access to credit is a bankable feasibility study. Many development
banks have been established by multilateral and bilateral donors to stimulate and facilitate private
enterprise development in developing countries. Financing conditions with these development banks
are usually very attractive.  In particular, pilot schemes and private seed enterprise development
initiatives would appear to meet their assistance criteria. Examples of agencies with this type of
financing facilities are: the African Project Development Facility (APDF), African Enterprise Fund of
the IFC (AEF), Commonwealth Development Cooperation (CDC), European Community (EC),



- 46; -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Swedish Agency for International, Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS), German Finance
Company for Investments in Developing Countries (DEG), Finnish Fund for Industrial Development
Cooperation (FINNFUND), Netherlands Development Finance Company (FMO), and USAID.
However, a major source of funding is likely to come from the two Ethiopian Banks, namely,
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia. Both
these Banks are willing to finance private seed enterprises on suitable terms.
National Seed Industry Agency
11.    The role of the National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA) is crucial to the development of the
proposed private sector seed initiatives in Ethiopia. NSIA would advise private entrepreneurs on the
preparation of viable projects in any aspect of the seed program. Under the project, it would assist
entrepreneurs to prepare market, technical, and other feasibility studies needed for project preparation.
It would also identify promising entrepreneurs and help them organize, diversify and expand their
business, and work with them throughout the project preparation cycle until they secure funding from
local banks and/or from the development agencies listed above.
12.    The project would make provisions for NSIA to support these enterprises with a lump sum
provision of $1.0 million to be spent on advisory services and techno-economic feasibility studies to
support private sector initiatives.
13.    NSIA's overall objective under this pilot would be to initiate productive enterprises in the seed
subsector. In particular, the NSIA would (a) mobilize the private sector through workshops, seminars
and advertisements; (b) help entrepreneurs to formulate and screen project ideas on a direct and
confidential basis; (c) provide guidance and, on a selective basis, make technical services available to
entrepreneurs for project preparation and bankable feasibility studies to promote and implement sound
projects in the seed subsector; (d) help entrepreneurs with viable project proposals to identify and
obtain appropriate technical and managerial personnel and, if needed, technical partners on equitable
and fair terms; (e) provide advice on appropriate technology and equipment; (f) assist entrepreneurs to
select project partners and sources of equity and loan financing on appropriate terms; (g) advise private
foreign investors or financing institutions seeking to identify investment opportunities and/or local
partners in the seed subsector by bringing the parties together and helping to negotiate fair and
equitable conditions of cooperation.
14.    One business development specialist would be made available through NSIA for the project
duration. In addition, a seed processing specialist in NSIA will be available on a part-time basis to
advise on appropriate processing equipment. The human resource development specialist in NSIA
would develop tailor-made training programs for interested private sector entrepreneurs in coordination
with the business development specialist.



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page I of 2
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR STUDY ON THE SEED RESERVE STOCK SCHEME
1.    Introduction. The project is designed to assure greater use of improved seed by farmers
to help increasing the country's food production and reduce the dependence on food imports
which are rising rapidly. An important characteristic of the food production scenario in Ethiopia
is the chronic occurrence of droughts which jeopardize food security and aggravate poverty.
Given the wide agro-ecological diversity in the country, and the cultivation of several "land races"
well adapted to specific agro-ecological niches, the problems of ensuring seed security to
underpin a food security system are very complex. It is, therefore, important to launch a special
study to find locally relevant solutions to tackle the problems of seed supply for late sown crops,
particularly in endemic drought areas.
2.    Organization of the Study. The study will be made by a team of three specialists, viz.,
team leader, seed technologist, and an agricultural economist. The team will work under the
supervision and the control of the general manager, NSIA, and will work in close coordination
with the Plant Genetics Resource Center of Ethiopia (PGRC), the Food Security Reserve
Administration, IAR, AUA, ESE, and MOA at the central and regional levels. The study will
draw upon the work already done by the ministries and institutions and FAO. A draft report will
be presented to NSIA/NSIC in six weeks from the start of the assignment, after having received
comments, the report will be finalized in another two weeks.
3.    Terms of Reference
(a)   identify the coups and the varieties (long, medium and short duration) which can
be planted over wide areas, and should be used for late sowing in predominantly
drought prone areas;
(b)   work out the seed quantities, by crop varieties and geographical locations, for
which a variety is relevant,
(c)   recommend arrangements and locations for seed production, procurement,
transportation and storage by types and quantities;
(d)   recommend arrangements for stock rotation and replenishment of each variety at
each storage location, to maintain freshness, germination, vigor and other
attributes of good seeds,
(e)   define the physical and infrastructural needs and estimate their costs; also define
how the costs will be shared by the different financing agencies;



- 48 -                                     Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
(f)    suggest institutional responsibilities for implementation of the scheme as well as a
mechanism for coordination and monitoring;
(g)    work out details of investment and recurrent costs involved, sources of funding
and disbursement procedures; and
(h)    develop a detailed three-year action plan for implementation, clearly defining the
institutional arrangements and the financial responsibilities of each agency.



- 49 -                                                                       X3
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY BY COMPONENT, FINANCIERS AND YEARS
(millions US$)
ETHIOP IA
Seed Systems Oevelopment Projedt
Components Project Cost Summary                       (    db MiloTt) (USS Miliion)                                            % Totai
(Br MTota                        (US orign       Total1 .   Foreign    Base
Local      f2Le19n        Total       Local       Foreign      total    Ech.ange  Co0ta
A Seed Enterprise Development
Informal Secor                                23 3         2 6         25 9          3 9         0 4          4 3        10       17
FD-rai SeCtor                                23 3         37 3         60 6          3 9         6 2         101         62       39
Subtotal Seed Enterprist Oevelopment            46 6        39 9          86 6         7 8         6 7         14 4        46       55
S. Capacity Building
1. Insttutional strengthening
Regulatory  & Service Agencies             34 0          9 4         43 4          5.7         1 a          7 2       22        28
Research & Development Institutes           7 2         110           182          1 2         1 8          3 0       61        12
Subtotal lnatttutional Strongthening         41 2         20 4         61 6          6.9         3 4         10 3        33       39
2. Human Resource Development
Regulatory  &  Servc Agenclies              2 0          0 4          2 4         0 3          0.1         0 4         16        2
Researcn 6 Development Instrtutes           3 3          1.2          4 4          0.5         0 2         0 7        26         3
Others                                      07           01           2.0          0.1         02           03         63        1
Subtotal Human Resource Dev.lopme              6 0         2 8            8.9         1 0         0.5          1 5       32        6
Subtotal Capacity Building                      47 3        23 2          70 5         7 9         3.9         11 7        33       45
Total BASELINE COSTS                            93 9         63.1        157.0         15.7        10 5        26.2         40      100
Physical Contingencies                         9 6         6.1          15.7         1 8         1 0          2 8        39       10
Pnce Contingencies                               9         4 3           13.2        1 5         07           2.2        33        a
Total PROJECT COSTS                            1124          735         t8ft9         18.7        12.3        31.0        40       Il8
int nnaConsl
Oev.lopme,
TheO  Oe"a,11ielt   AssociSUCfl                         TaGi                 (651.   ii  A
Ameijilt    %    Amoijet    i    Aeieiiffl    i    nAeo.int    %    For Exch.   tuies   Taxes
A S*,d Efrprise Dveiemrnert                        24 2       0    75O             3t    17 2                    0 5       A3      O 
warn  t Sd-w                                      r  0       *0  a 3    534  5    322       11 9    36         72        3        1f 
Foa Socw                                                                                                                  6 
S     Sui" 5   p"d Entrs ei oePloomn        1 3     r        0      803       35    3Z2       i72-56             1
S. Capecrcy Builinig
I Ingt'Vonal &5r.nAnCg                                                                                          a e8  7 4  C  274  1 e0  0 a
R ess ja t,y &  5.9.e ei M i A_ _ _ _ _ _ 2       a        a 8    5                           35   117       31.                0
S,jbWUi ieglat'UJUWS   S _c  lg ncfi9   a 9    21                                           . 2 a    73 3  3  .0  '  21 A  A O  0 
5Vbt3" I nientonal Str ngclssng          1- ae   2                                           i         1       3
2 Hwian Resource De05voPemon               0       6              9e 4                       0 5     i e       01        0 '      00
RogUlar    5.i t Af  cGo                         ,       09 l5   0                        09      29        02        07       00
a00 _____        c 2    620      02    380        04 15 3            2                 020
oui Qisburs*flhcflt              41A  - 12       212 F   83     -57    Is84        310~  1-o  9     12T.3     F8        2 7
ETHIOPIA
Seed Systems DevYeopmSrtt Prsd
Project Cornpontls by 'Yw -Torsi8 Inc
(LUS$ Million)                                                   Totals Includig Contlfqncl
9USS        96/9lo  3BrS7  97ns8     _30D                     TotAl
A. Seed Entefprise D*vOpk W                         10          10 M                                 12           S-3
Infornal Sector                                  13           10
Forrnal Sector                                   35           1.6         36          1 6         1.7          119
Subtotal Seed Enterpris DevebOPn-On                 4 4   ~     2T 6~ 4                                           7272  
~~~~~                               44         2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  4.6   2.7         2.9
B. Capacrty Building
1. InstitutJonal Strengthening
Regulatory &  S.tvtce Agencies                 ' 7         2 5         0.7          0.7         0.8          .5S
2 4         0 2         0 3         0 3         0 3           3.5
Researcth& 0eve;opment Inhtitues     _______ 
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening             61          C 3          10          10          1            120
2. Hunman Resource Developrrunt
Reguiatory  &  Service AgelCies                01          01          01           01          01           0 5
Research & Development Insttuttes              0 0         0 2         0.4          0.3         0.0          0.9
Otherl                            ~~~         ~~~         ~~~         ~~~01  01D  0.1  0.0  0.0   0 4
Cthers                                         
Subtotal Humrn Resource Developffw               02 2        0            06          04          02
Subtotal Capacity Building                         64           32          1        6  1 4          1           13 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                10 8          58          62 421                   1310



- 50 -
Annex 4
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA Finscal Year       Semester          Disbursement         Cumulative             % of
l____________________                      Disbursement            Total
1996                        I                  ).4                 0.4                 1.8
.___________ _   11            4  6                5.0                 22.7
1997                        1                  4.3                 9.3                42.3
I ________________          fl                 2.3                 11.6                52.7
1998                        I                  2.3                13.9                63.2
Il                 1n1                16.0                72.7
1999                        I                  2.1                18.1                 .3
11                 1.1                19.2                87.2
2000                        I                  1.1                20.2                 91.8
II                 0.9                21.1                95.9
2001                        I                  0.9                22.0                100.0
I  _____________            nI                  0.0



- 51 -
Annex 5
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements for the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
(IJSS Million,values in parenthesis refer to share of IDA)
ICB                 LCB                 Other                NBF                  Total
Works:
- civil works                                                     0.8 O S                                                       08
(0.4)                                                         (0.4)
- land development                                                0.9                                       -                   0.9
(0.4)                                                         (0 4)
Goods:
- equipment                                  2.4                  0.1                 0.6                  0.0                  3.1
(2.0)               (0.1)                (0.5)               (0.0)                 (2.6)
-vehicles                                    2.3                                       -                                        2.3
(1.7)                (-)                                                           (1.7)
-furniture                                                        0.0                                                           0.0
(0.0)                                                         (0.0)
Consultancies
- training                                                         -                  0.4                                       0.4
(0 4)                                     (0.4)
-technical assistance                                                                 0.1                                       0.1
(0.1)                                     (0.1)
- studies                                                                             0 1                   -                   0 1
(0. )                                     (0. 1)
NMiscellaneous
- incremental                                                                                              3.6                  3.6
recurrent costs                                                                                          (0.0)                (0.0)
Total                          4.7                 1.8                  1 2                  3 5                 11 3
(3.7)               (0.9)                (1.0)               (0.0)                 (5 6)
Note  ICBstandsforlnteranationalCompetitive Bidding. LCB for Local Competitive Biddin& and N B F for Non-Bank Financed
Summary Disbursement Schedule for the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
(US$ Million)
Amount                             % of Expenditure Financed
Works:
- civil works                                       0.7                                      50 % oftotal
Goods :
- equipment                                        2.6                             100 % of foreign; 85% of local
- vehicles                                         1.5                              100 %offoreign; 85% oflocal
Consultancies:
- training                                         0.2                                     100 % oftotal
-technical assistance                              0.1                                     100 % of total
- studies                                          0.1                                     100 %oftotal
Miscellaneous:
- incremental recurrent costs                      0.0                                         none
Unallocated:                                        0.5
Total                                5.6
Note. a/ IDA finds to be on-lent by TGE to ESE
file: eseproc.doc



- 52 -                                              .tAnnex 6
page 1 of 3
ETHIOPIA
Seed Systems Development Project
ESthcpian Seed Enterprise  5E)
Income Statement
*Birr Million. 1994 constant prices)
--- -- -- -  - - - --  - ------  ----- --   -- - -- -   - -- - -   -- - - - - - --   -- - - - - - - -  - - -
1994      1995    1996   i997  :gs3   .9v9   :o
prov.    pro.    pro.  proj   przj   r:   pro)
-- - - - -   - - - -    - - - - - -- - -     - - - -    - - -    -   -    -  ? "-   -  f ? .    ! ? -  . .  --
Revenues from Sales                                        45.4      45.4    45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45 4
Costs of Goods Sold                                         33.0      33.0    33.0  33 .0  33.0  33.0  33 0
Gross Margin                                                12.4      12.4    12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  '-.4
- salaries                                               0.8       0.8      0.8    0.8    0.8   -.8    o.a
employees benefits                                     0.2       0.2      0.2    0.2    0.2   3D.    3.2
- Office supplies                                      0.1       0.1      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1 _          1
- misicellaneous                                         0.7       0.7      0.7   4.0    4.0   4.0    4.0
interest old                                           0.5       0.5      0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5
interest new                                           0.0       0.0      0.0   2.1   2.0   1.8    1.7
- depreciation old                                       2.5       2.5      2.5   2.5    2 .5   2.5   2.5
- depreciation new                                       0.0       0.0      0.0    2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3
Overhead                                                     4.8       4.8      4.8   2. 6  12.4  12.3  121
operating Income                                             7 .6      7. 6     76   -0.2       .0    0.1   0.3
Taxes                                                        3.8       3.8      3.3   -0.1   0.0   0.1   0.1
Net Result before Appropriation TSE                          3.8       3.8      3.8  -0.1    0.0   0.1   0.1
.......... ........ ............ ...... .......... ..... ......... .... .. .... ..
Net Result Distributed as Follows
- to Legal Reserve                                    o02        0.2      0.2    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
-to Entrprise Share Profit                             1.8       1.6      1.8    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.1
to Government Share Profit                             1.a       1.3      1.3    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.1
Soed Systt   Deveiopment Project
Sources and Aplication7 of Funde
Ethic isE Se d   tntrpriso (CSU)
(Cirr Million, 1394 constant prices)
1994      1995    1996   1997   1998  1999  2000
prov.    proj.   proj. (proj  proj  (proj  (proj
Net Result after Appropriation TOS                           3.8       2.0     2.0   -0.1    0.0   0.0   0.1
- depreciation old                                       2.5       2.5      2.5    2.5   2.5   2.5    2.5
- depreciatiqn new                                       0.0       0.0      0.0   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3
Gross internal Cash Generation                               6.3       4.5     4.5    4.7    4.8   4.    4.8
S O U R C S S
- decrease accounts receivable                           1.4       0.0      1.8    1.6    1.4   1.3   1.2
increase accontso  ayab1e                              0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
decroase of the  Jnventories                           0.0       0.0      1.5   1.4    1.2   1.1   1.0
- loan                                                   0.0       0.0    20.3    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
A P P L I c A T I O N S
- increase accounts receivable                           0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
decrease accounts payable                              0.0       5.7      4.6    3.6    2.3    2.3   1 9
increase of the  iftentoree                            0 0       0.0      0      0      0.    0.0   0 0
docre-ae in capital charge  due                        0.0       6.7      0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
decreaea  in short term loan due                       0.0       3.0      0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
- decrease in taxes a charges due                        0.0       2.9      0.0
- principal old long  term loan                          0.0       0.5      0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5   0.5
- principal new long term  loan                          0.0       0.0      0.0    1.3    1.4    1.6   1.7
- investment as proposed by the project                  0.0       0.0    27.4    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
cash start  of the year                                     22.1      29       3.5    5.7   8.0  10.6  13.4
cash changp of the year                                      7.7    (20.      (3.8)   2.2    2.6    2.8    2.9
cash end    of the year                                    29.8        3.5     5.7   8.0  10.6  13.4  16.3
...........      ......... .................a. ......... ....... ........ ....... ..... ..... ..... .....



Annex 6
page 2 of 3
- 53 -
ETHIOPIA
Seed Systems Oevelcpment ProJect
Balance Sheets
Eth:1pLan Seed Enterprise tESE)
'Birr M!lhion, 1994 constant prices)
1994      1995    1996   1997   1398   1999  2o00
so.v.    prol    proj   pro)  proj  pro)  proj
- - - - - - - -   - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - --  - - - - - - - - --   -- - - -   -- -   - - -.- -   - -
Gross Fixed  Assets Existing                                47.3      47.3    47.3  47.3  47 3  47.3  47.3
Depreciation Assets Existing                                32.3      34.8    37.3   39.8  42.3  44.8  47,3
Net Fixed Assets    Existing                                15.0      12.5    :0.0    7.5    5.0    2.5    3.0
Gross Fixed  Assets New                                      0.0       0.0    27.4   27.4   27.4   27.4  27 4
Depreciation Assets New                                      3.0       0.0      0.0    2.3    4.6    6.9    9.2
Net Fixed Assets    New                                      0.0       0.0    27.4   25.1  22.8   20.5   18.2
Cash on hand & at Bank                                      29.8       9. 5     5.7    8.0   10.6   13.4  16 3
Accounts Receivable                                         17.8      17.8    16.0  14.4   13.0   11.7  10.5
Inventories                                                 15.4      15.4    13.9  12.5  11.2   10.1   9.1
Current Assets                                              63.0      42.7    35.6  34.9  34.8  35.2  35.9
Total Assets                                                78.0      55.1    73.0  67.4   62.5   58.1  54.1
.... ...... .................... ............  ... ........ ..... ....... ... .. ... .....
outstanding LT Loan Old                                      3.0       2.5      2.0    1.5    1.0    0.5    0.0
outstanding LT Loan New                                      0.0       0.0    20.9   19.6  18.1  16.6  14.8
Accounts Payable                                            28.5      22.8    18.2   14.6  11.7    9.3    7.5
Taxes & Contributions Payable                                2.9       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Capital Charge Payable                                       6.7       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Short Term Loan Payable                                      9.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
Current Liabilities                                         47.2      22.8    18.2  14.6  11.7    9.3    7.5
Capital                                                     39.6      39.6    39.6   39.6  39.6  39.6   39.6
Accumulated Profit (Loss)                                  (11.7)    (9.7)   (7.8)  (7.8)  (7.9) (7.8)  (7.8)
Net Equity                                                  27.9       29.9    31.8   31.9   31.7  31.8  31.8
Total Liabilities and Equity                                78.0      55.2    73.0  67.4  62.6  58.2   54.1
.... ..flas an........... .................. ......... ..... ........ ..... ..... ..... ..... .....
ETHIOPIA
See  s.tems r    o! Nlnt           aroiect
Fin 'nciaSly,t Cash  ow   e  t1     P   j act
M nterpri   pr cern
(2clU,SO    199s4 cnsCxtant pBries)
1994     1995    1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003
revenuem w.t*                                           41.4     45.4   45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4  45.4
revenues witnout                                        4.4      454   45 4  3.   32.   27 9  23.7  20 1_ 11  14.6
incremental revenues                                     0.0       0.0     0.0   6.6  12.6  17.5  21.7  25.3  28.3  30.8
oPt&tgOOW    so   d    ith                           34     34|  34             --  2S _.  21 _4  284 21 4  62_ 1 _7
incremental costs of goods sold                          0.0       0.0     0.0   6.3  10.1  12.7  15.6  19.1  22.0  24.4
Investment                                               0.0       0.0    27.4 0               0      0.0   0.0   0.0   0 .0
Net Cashflow Before Pinancin                            ;0.0       0.0  -27.4  -1.5   2.5   4.8   5.9   6.1   6.3   6.4
Lotn                                     ~~~       ~      ~~~~~~0.0 .    20.9   0.0   0.0 0.0 0 .0 0 .0   0.0   0.0
8:8  81    8:8~~~~                            I. j~~  : 9   2:1 2:
?rttci: e                                                  Q       o         2 3:1 2'    1 3   1.7   1. 95         1 3   2 1
Net Cashflow After  Financing                            0.0       0.0   -6.5  -4.9  -0.9   1.4   2.5   2.7   2.9   3.0
..........  ..... . -..- -...   ..a   ...   ...   ... ... ...
-... ....   ...  . .. ...a.......l    .......  aSa~.              ...  a      .... *~~  ..... ..... ..... ..... .....



- 54 -                                                        Annex 6
page 3 of 3
ETHIOPIA
Seed Systems Development Project
Financial Rate of Return
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE)
reduction
<----------   revenues without project            --------I
10.0t                    15.0t               20.0%
on All Resources                                                    1.0%                     8.2%               12.0%
on Own Resour loan at 10t in real terms                                                      7.9%
............. ........... ...................... ........... ......... .......... ........ .......
Assumptions       1) reduction in sales                           15.0%  per year without project.
SeeIOPIA
Seed Systems Development Project
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESB)
Selected Financial Indicators
1994          1995        1996         1997        1998    1999    2000
Debt Equity R  1/                                     0.1           0.1         0.7          0.7         0.6      0.5      0.5
Current Ratio  2/                                     1.3           1.9         2.0          2.4         3.0      3.8      4.8
Quick Ratio       3/                                  0.6           0.4         0.3          0.5         0.9      1.4      2.2
Return on Ass  4/                                                    iS%          7t            3%         4t       5       7%
Working Capit  5/ (Birr M                           15.8           19.9        17.4         20.3       23.1    25.8    28.4
Debt Ratio        6/                                  0.6           0.5         0.6          0.5        0.5       0.5      0.4
notes          1/ debt to net equity
2/ current assets to current liabilities
3/ quick assets to current liabilities
4/ operating income before interest and taxes to
average net fixed assets
5/ current assets minus current liabilities
6/ total liabilities to total assets



- 55 -
Annex 7
ETH IOPIA
SEED SYSTENIS DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
National Seed Industry Agency
Organizational Chart
National Seed Industry
Council
National Seed Industry Agency
General Manager
Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
Project Coordinator
and
- Project Acc. cum Disb. Officer
- MIS and Reporting Officer
- Operations Officer (2)
- SSMS Specialist
- Procurement Officer
- Training Specialist
- Business specialist
Administration and Finance               P anning and Programming
|        ~~~Service          l                    Servicel
Budget &        Administration          Planning &         Planning &
Finance         & General             Budget Prep.       Seed Policy
Section       Service Section            Team          Evaluation Team
Seed Data           l      lSeed Quality Controll
Team                              & Certification Team



- 56 -
Annex 8
Page I of 2
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPNIENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Beneficiary                    type of assignment      duration of assignment
ESE
management information systems                      short term                6 months
Alemava Uni%ersitv of Agriculture
foreign facultv                                     short term                 2 months
2 months
4 months
NSIA - PCMU
project coordinator                                 long term                 60 months
project account-cum-disbursement officer            long term                 60 months
MIS and reporting officer                           long term                 60 months
operations officer                                  long term                 60 months
operations officer                                  long term                 60 months
300 months
NSIA - Others
training specialist                                  long term                50 months
seed processing specialist                          long term                 12 months
SSMS specialist                                     long term                 50 months
business development specialist                      long term                60 months
procurement specialist                               long term                48 months
unspecified                                         long term                 20 months
240 months
seed processing specialist                          short term                 5 months
seed marketing specialist                           short term                 6 months
MIS specialist                                      short term                 6 months
Unspecified                                         short term                 7 months
24 months



- 57 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMIS DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Training
Beneficiary                                      t nit                Subject             Place        Number of Beneficianes
- Hreeder seed stations
AUA Debre Zeit                                      lump sum            seed technology         local            one each year
|Al 'A Alemava                                      lump sum            seed technology         local            one each year
lIAR Holetta                                        lump sum            seed technology         local            one each year
IAR Melkassa                                        lump sum            seed technology         local            one each .ear
lAR Bako                                            lump sum            seed technology         local            one each year
IAR Kulumsa                                         lumpsum             seed technology         local            one each year
lAR Adet                                            lump sum            seed technology         local            one each year
IAR Mlelka Werer                                     lump sum           seed technology         local            one each year
IAR Awassa                                          lump sum            seed technology         local            one each year
Plant Gentics Resource Centre                        lumpsum             plant genetics        overseas       2 times in furst 2 years
Plant Quarantine Service                             lumpsum            pathology & seed       overseas          one each year
technology
Alemava University of Agriculture                   lump sum             seed technology        local             one each year
seed science        overseas        I over 3 years (Ph.D)
seed technology       overseas       5 over 3 years (M.Sc)
Ethiopian Seed Enterprise                           lump sum              management            local           several each year
lump sum              study tour          overseas          one each year
lump sum            miscellaneous         overseas          5 over 3 years
lump sum            quality control        local            one each year
lump sum            quality control       overseas          one each year
lump sum              marketing            local            one each year
lump sum             procurement           local            one each year
lump sum              production           local            one each year
Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme
- training agents and farnies                      lump sum           agents and farmers      local             one each year
- field days                                       lump sum               field days           local            one each year



- 58 -                                                 Annex 9
Page I of 7
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. Introduction
1.      This Prioject Implemenitation Plan (PIP) is the product ot' joint efforts of the National Seed Industry Agencv (NSIA)
and IDA ofticials responsible for the Seed Systems Development Project (SSDP).
B. Overall Responsibility
2.      NSIA: The overall responsibility for Project implementation would rest with the National Seed Industry Agency
(NSIA). created under proclamation No. 56/1993 dated July 16, 1993 as TGE's major instrument for the development of the
seed sector. NSIA would be IDA's counterpart agency for ensuring implementation of SSDP in all its aspects. NSLA's
perimanient responsibilities include: a) providing a secretariat to NSIC; b) ensuring efticient implementation of the National
Seed Policy by setting up adequate monitoring and coordinating mechanisms: c) taking the necessary steps to encourage the
growth and development of the seed sector; d) building institutional and human resource capacity in the seed sector: e)
organizing donor coordination: and finally. through these actions f) contributing significantly to increasing agricultural
productivity and building indigenous capability in the production ot improved seeds. NSIA is headed by a General Manager
(GM) and has a contingent of professional staff.
3.      NSLA is working under a policy advisory body, called the National Seed Industry Council (NSIC). NSIC is headed
by the Minister, Ministry of Natural Resource Development and Environment Protection (MONRDEP), and draws its
membership from the concerned ministries including agriculture, industry, trade and education, agencies and institutions,
including Ethiopian Standards Authority, the Science and Technology Commission, National Bank of Ethiopia, IAR, AUA,
and others to be elected by the Council. NSIC reports to the Council of Ministers and NSIC's main responsibilities include:
a) ensuring implementation of the National Seed Policy: b) issuing guidelines for efficient and competitive seed industry
development; c) promoting the domestic seed industry: d) capacity building in the seed sector:  e) reviewing the
implementation of seed related policies and recommending changes to the Council of Ministers when necessary; and finally f)
guiding and directing the NSiA. In addition. NSIC would be given the responsibility to review progress of implementation of
SSDP every quarter and provide directions and guidance to NSIA. It has been agreed that NSIC would closely monitor and
guide the implementation of SSDP.
4.      A Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) would be set up within NSIA for the duration of the Project
and the PCMU would coordinate the activities for the SSDP and would ensure compliance with IDA and NSIC reporting,
procurement and disbursement requirements. The PCMU would be headed by a full-time professional (Project Coordinator.
equivalent in rank to that of a Deputy General Manager) who would be accountable to the General Manager, NSIA, and
would have full responsibility for the coordination of SSDP activities. In addition, the PCMU would be staffed with: a) one
Project Accountant -cum- Disbursement Officer (PACDO);  b) two Operations Officers (OPO);  c) one Management
Information Systems and Reporting Officer (MISRO); and e) one specialist each in Secondary Seed Multiplication Systems,
in procurement, in training, and in business development. The major responsibility of the PACDO would be to ensure that all
agencies utilizing Project funds set up proper accounting systems and maintain proper accounts, and promptly claim
reimbursements from IDA. All withdrawal applications would be submitted to IDA through the office of PACDO so that a
proper track of expenditures on different components in different institutions and ministries or departments is kept and IDA
disbursements are received by the beneficiaries without undue delay. PACDO would also be responsible for supervising the
Project's "Special Accounts" and guiding various implementing agencies with regard to the procedures for their utilization.
The major responsibility of the two OPOs would be to closely supervise the implementation of various Project components,
identify implementation bottlenecks in the tield and/or at Headquarters, and bring these bottlenecks to the attention of the
Project Coordinator. The two OPOs, with duties allocated functionally between them, would also provide MISRO with
reports on physical and financial progress. MISRO would establish and operate an approved management information system



-  59 -                                              Ainnex 9
Page 2 of 7
installed by conisultaints' hired for the duration ot the Project, obtaini periodical reports from various managers and others
concerned witth project implementation, collate data and reports. and submit them to the Project Coordinator. The MIISRO
would collect data on key monitorable indicators and prepare quarterly and annual reports to be subniitted to IDA in agreed
formats: it would further prepare background and progress reports for the IDA supervision missions.
5.       The specialists will have the following duties assigined to them. The SSMS specialist, under the euidance of GM/PC
would be responsible for the planning and implemrntation of itformal farmer to farmer seed exchange program. Towards
this end, he will guide and coordinate the activities of the MOAINSIA. regional bureaus of agriculture, and ensure timely
formulation of the program for each region. training ot staff at various levels and organizing of supplies of seed mini-kits and
other equipment, like hand sieves and storage bitis in different woredas. The Procurement Specialist would be responsible for
guiding and monitoring of all IDA - funded procur-ement operations to ensure that the IDA  procurement guidelines are
followed. He would also identify the persons responsible for procuremenit in each implementing agency and arrange for their
training in IDA procuremenit procedures.  The Trainiiig Specialist will be responsible for implementing a wide range of
training activities to create awareness about improved seeds, increase the knowledge and skills of farmers about seed
production, selection, cleaning, drying and preservation through the adoptionl of safer storage methods, as well as training of
extension functionaries at various levels in the basics of seed technology.  He would also be responsible for organizing
specialized training courses specitic to the needs of each implementing agency, as well as the private sector.  Each
implementinig agency will designate a training cooiditiator to liaise with the Training Specialist. In addition, the Training
Specialist will process proposals for study tours, fellowships, workshops. and seminars.  The Business Development
Specialist will promote the development of a healthyv and competitive seed industry by mobilizing the private sector through
workshops, seminars, by developing model investment proposals, helping and guiding, on a selective basis, private
entrepreneurs in the preparation of technicallv sound and bankable feasibility studies.
6.       The agreed organizational set-up of the agency is shown in  Annex 7. The NSIA would ensure that all of the
PCMU professional staff, and Finance and Accounts Department Staff and a minimum of two agricultural economists, two
seed data experts, and a seed technologist/agronomist are in place in the NSIA permanent organizational set-up, before
project effectiveness.
7.       Salaries and wages of regular NSIA staff would be paid by the Government; IDA would  a) assist in the provision
of technical assistance and training for NSIA staff: b) finance salaries and allowances (like per diem) of the staff for SSDP
coordination and monitoring office (PCMU), to be recruited on personnel service contracts (this office would be wound up on
Project completion): and c) finance expenditures on vehicles and equipment required for NSIA to ensure rapid build up of its
implementation capacity. Technical assistance would be provided to make NSIA develop: a) appropriate management
systems, procedures and controls; b) a Management Information System (MIS) for the seed sector in general, and SSDP in
particular; c) expertise in seed processing, marketing; and d) informal seed development programs..
C. NSIA's Specific Responsibilities for SSDP
8.       NSIA's specific responsibilities for SSDP implementation would include, but not be limited to  a) organization of an
annual workshop to focus on assessment of seed demand; b) creation and implementation of mechanisms to ensure timely
and adequate production of improved seed by the public and the private sector;  c) monitoring   and ensuring full
implementation of the seed sub-sector reform program agreed under SSDP, including seed prices, subsidies and building-up
of a conducive and competitive environment for the private and public sectors in domestic marketing; d) seed related capacity
building in the public, private and the farming sectors to enhance efficiencies; e) monitoring and coordination to ensure
effective implementation, from the national to the grassroot level, of all SSDP components, including extension, inputs credit
to farmers, training of extension staff, of dealers and of farmers training in seed use technology; f) assisting IDA supervision
missions with necessary information, setting up meetings, organizing field visits, and accompanying the supervision missions
to meetings and field visits; g) submitting of quarterly progress reports to IDA, in agreed formats in addition to such other
periodical reports which IDA may specifically icquest; h) developing a detailed Operational Manual for SSDP in the first
Project year (PY-1), and an Operational Plan .i :uarantee sustainability after closing date, both in a format satisfactory to
IDA; i) conducting, jointly with IDA, a Mid- I  ii Review of Project progress within six months from the close of the second
Project year (PY-2); and j) preparing an Imp,  ni(ation Completion Report (ICR) within six month from the close of the
Project. The Government has assured IDA th.x,; i ,ould provide adequate and timely budgetary and staffing support to NSIA
to undertake these responsibilities.



-  60 -                                            Annex 9
Page 3 of 7
9.      NSIA would set up the following institutional and regulatory mechanisms to  secure inter-agency coordination,
obtain periodic feedback, to regularly submit progress reports to IDA in agreed formats, and thereby implement the Seed
Systems Development Project:
a)       Project Implementation Committee (PIC):  NSIA would set up a Project Implementation Committee
(PIC) with membership drawn from all implementing agencies. Project Coordinator in charge of the
Project Monitoring and Coordination Unit would be nominated as the Secretary of PIC. Members would
include representatives from ESE and the private sector seed producers and marketers, as well as
representatives from  MOA's IAR, AUA  and PGRC.   PIC  would meet every month under the
chairmanship of the General Manager. NSIA. Members of PIC would be heads of concerned Departments
and senior staff of implementing agencies. The agenda for PIC meetings would include training physical
and financial progress of the various project components, and progress in procurement, construction of
works, installation of equipment, and seed production and marketing issues. Towards this end, NSIA
would. during the Project Launch Workshop, define for each of the implementing agencies the formats
and the timing for the submission of the monthly progress reports.
b)       Meetings with Regional Agricultural Bureaus: In order to maintain its grass root contacts and stay
current with the problems of each region, and to assist the newly set-up regional administrations, NSIA
would periodically hold. preferably on a quarterly basis, meetings at selected places in the country, each
in a cluster of mostly contiguous regions. These meetings would be used to review, on a regional basis,
the progress made and problems encountered in the implementation of various SSDP components and to
agree with the regional administrations on a work plan. Representatives of concerned institutions would
participate in these meetings. Arrangements would also be made to secure participation in these meetings
of the private seed trade as well as the local branches of the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
(AIDB), the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE) and/or any other rural cooperative institution to be set
up for the purpose of providing credit to the farming population.
c)       Annual Workshop on Seed: NSIA would hold an Annual National Seed Workshop, preferably in the
month of December tc (i) comprehensively review the performance in the outgoing year and identify,
thereby, successes and failures in the implementation of each project component on a regional basis; (ii)
prepare, in consultation with and the cooperation of all participating agencies, workplans for
implementation in the following year and assign responsibilities for future specific actions to various'
implementation agencies. Once the Annual Seed Workshop has taken place, PIC would, in its regular
monthly meetings review the progress in the implementation of the recommendation for each concerned
agency, and the committee would follow up closely where the progress is slow and include the results of
such review in its quarterly progress reports to NSIC and IDA.
d)       Project Launch Workshop: NSIA would, in close collaboration with IDA, organize a Project Launch
Workshop before or immediately after Credit Effectiveness. All agencies involved in the implementation
of the Project would be required to participate in this workshop. The agenda for the workshop, to focus
on start-up issues and work programs for the first year of the project, would be finalized in consultation
with IDA. NSIA would present for discussion and finalization, during the workshop, proposals for
technical assistance and training in Project Year 1. The NSIA would also present the plan for ensuring
adequate seed production during Project Year 1. The proposed Key Project Indicators (see Annex 9,
Attachments), and the format for the quarterly progress reports, would also be discussed and finalized
during the Project Launch Workshop.
e)     Workshops on Procurement, Disbursement and Project Management: NSIA would further organize,
with IDA assistance, a workshop on procurement, disbursement and project management, in Project Year
I (and in subsequent years. if necessary) for selected staff engaged in SSDP related procurement,
disbursement and project management. The concerned staff of NSIA and the SSDP's PCMU in NSIA
would receive intensive training in IDA procedures.



-  61 -                                         Page 4 of 7
I)      Mld-Term Review (NMR): NSIA would collaborate with IDA for a mid-term review (MTR) of SSDP,
which is planned to be held within six months from the close of Project Year 2. NSLA would enlist the
participation of all concemed implementing agencies. The MTR would include a review of the progress in
policy refom including pricing, subsidies and market liberalization; private sector development; progress
in SSMS; seed use by regions and fUture outlook; progress achieved in staffing, funding and operations of
NSIA and various committees; progress in institutional and human capacity building; and ESE's
operations including its restructuring and profitability. Based on the findings of the IDA's MTR mission,
the Project would be restructured, if and as necessary.
g)      Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation:  NSIA would be responsible for coordinating the
development of annual work plans for various Project componenu and maintaining data on
implementation progress. Towards this end the NSIA would.
(I) establish bench marks for evaluation of subsequerit project achievements in consultation with
implementing agencies;
(ii) prepare quarterly progress reports, providing 'a descriptive and analytical account of project
achievements and highlighting implementation problems; these reports would be regularly submitted to
NSIC and IDA for the quarters ending March, June, September and December. The comments and
directives of NSIC, if any, on the quarterly reports would also be subsequently comnunicated to IDA.
(iii) ensure that the business plan of ESE is submitted to IDA three months prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year (or any other time span used for planning purposes by the enterprise); IA's comments would
be taken into consideration before finalizing the business plan.
(iv) prepire and submit to IDA an Implementation Compledon Report (ICR) within six months from
project closing date. The ICR would, inter alia, include the Government's assessment of the extent to
which objectives were realized, details of physical and financial achievements, problems encountered,
solutions found and lessons learned. IDA would provide NSIA with a standard format for the ICR.
h)      Audit:  NSIA would ensure that separate books of account are maintained in NSIA and by each
implementing agency for all project related accounts. These accounts, together with special accounts and
statements of expenditure, would be audited on an annual basis, by external auditors satisfactory to IMA;
audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months from the end of the fiscal year.
j)      Quality Control Lagielatton and Its Enforcement: NSIA would take the necessary initiatives to get a
seed law promulgated; the Seed Quality Control and Seed Certification Service to be set-up in NSIA would
be responsible for enforcing the new quality control legislation.  NSIA would notify DA of the
enforcement arrangements by September 1996.
k)      Regulatory Seovce: Given the critical role of the National Variety Release Committee (NVRC) and the
Plant Quarandne Service (PQS) in ensuring production of seed of a satisfactory quality, the performance
of these two Instutions would also be subject to review by IDA supervision missions. Both of these
institutions would be required to furnish quarterly progress reports to NSrA, in a formts to be agreed
during Proct LAunch Workshop; these reports would, on request, be available to IDA. At Mid-Term
Review, the performance and huture investment needs of these two agencies would also be reviewed.
D. Secondary Seed MultIpdlcadon Scheme
10.     The Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme (SSMS) is a pilot inidtive and the following are the preconditions for
its success: a) SSMS must be a well planned and well executed intervendon; b) extension staff responsible for SSMS
implementatdon must be well trained and well motivated for this task; c) arrangements for supervision and monitoring of the
entire SSMS efftrt must be well thought-out and executed in a meticulous way; d) it must be ensured that there are no
delays in the supply of improved  leds and equipment to the selected farmers under the SSMS, and to this extent there
needs to be very careful and timely assessment of requiremenu and organization of supplies to each micro-location; and e)
suitable and adequate mobility must be provided to those engaged in implementing and supervising SSMS at all levels.



- 62 -                                                Annex 9
Page 5 of 7
extent there needs to be very careful and timely assessment of requirements and organization of supplies to each micro-
location; and e) suitable and adequate mobility must be provided to those engaged in implementing and supervising SSMS at
all levels.
11.      Focal Points for Implementation of SSMS would be as follows:  a) at the National Level, the NSIA would be
responsible for the overall direction, planning, assessments of requirements and organization of supplies, monitoring and
preparation of periodical reports and this would be accomplished by NSIA in close cooperation with MOA, IAR, AUA, ESE,
the private sector seed suppliers (if any) and Plant Genetics Resource Center;  b) at the Regional Level, the  Regional
Agricultural Bureau (RAB), particularly the selected staff handling SSMS, assisted by local research stations and nearest
regional office of ESE; c) at the Zonal Level, the Zonal Agricultural Office (selected staff); d) at the Woreda Level the
selected Extension Staff; and e) at the Peasant Association (PA) Level, the Selected Farmers/groups of farmers and
Development Agents (DAs).
12.      Main Activities under the SSMS are: a) the training of selected farmers in seed selection, production, harvesting,
clearning, and storage (see attachment 3); b) provision of improved or local seeds for each selected farmer; seed of the
relevant crop and variety; c) provision of other needed supplies, like hand sieves, maize shellers, small seed storage bins,
for the farmers; and d) provision of some other standard equipment for SSMS extension agents, like moisture meters.
13.      The tentative seed production targets under SSMS are shown in the table below:
| __________________________     _ |  PYI   |   PY2        PY3        PY4        PY-5       Total
No. of Woredas (Cumulative)            50        70        100        150         200
No. of Farm Families per Woreda        20        25         30         35         40
Total Families (Cumulative)          to000     1,750      3,000      5,250      8,000
Seed Produced (tons)                  200       350        600       1,050      1,600       3,800
No. of Seed Bins                     3 000     2,000      3.000      5,000      6,000     19,000
Note : Values in the above table are targets, to be adjusted annually during the
national Seed Workshop on the basis of actual results
E. Breeder Seed Production
14.      Three months prior to the beginning of each year, IAR, AUA and PGRC would prepare a detailed review of the
physical and financial progress likely to be achieved in the current year, and the next years' plans for procurement of civil
works, equipment, vehicles and any other items, both in physical and financial terms. These proposals would be reviewed by
NSIA, (PIC) and suitable provisions made for funds and procurement. The format of such a report would be agreed by NSIA
with IDA during Project Launch Workshop. (All IDA supervision missions would be provided with progress reports,
transport facilities and access to facilities funded by the Project). The progress reports would, inter alia, summarize the
improvements registered in the quantity and quality of breeder seed production.
F. Ethiopian Seed Enterprise
15.      The Ethiopian seed Enterprise (ESE) would, under the Project, be required to:  a) complete its restructuring in
accordance with its Restructuring Plan; b) ensure that appropriate operational and financial procedures for each farm and
regional unit are well-documented; c) annuallk prepare a Business Plan for the following year; d) rehabilitate all the seed
processing plants; e) develop a new marketing '.rategy for servicing the peasant sector through a network of wholesale and
retail outlets, thereby relying to the extent po%iNble on the private sector for seed distribution and sales; f) develop a seed



- 6:3 -                                                 Annex 9
Page 6 of 7
production manual for contract seed production with smallholders as well as commercial seed producers; and g) install an
appropriate and comprehensive Management Information System (MIS).
16.     The NSIA and ESE would agree on target dates for the completion of each of the above mentioned tasks. NS1A
would inform IDA during the Project Launch Workshop on the agreements which it has reached with ESE. Further, NSIA
and ESE would develop a format for quarterly review of progress in the completion of these tasks, this format would be
reviewed by IDA during the Project Launch Workshop. Thereafter, NSIA would incorporate in its quarterly progress report
to be submitted to IDA the ESE's progress report in the agreed format. NSIA would arrange that ESE's annual business plan
is submitted to IDA 90 days before the start of the new fiscal year (or any other date used by ESE for planning purposes).
NSIA would further ensure that a copy of the ESE's progress report is submitted to NSIC every quarter.
G. The Private Sector
18.     The private sector would be represented on NSIA's Project Implementation Committee (PIC) and other relevant
committees. With regard to representation in the NSIC, the private sector will be invited to attend quarterly meetings where
implementation progress of SSDP will be reviewed. The private sector would be treated at par with the public and
cooperative sector in the matter of subsidy payments, if any, and domestic marketing. Further, the private sector would be
invited to participate in all seed related workshops, seminars, training programs and study tours, and would benefit from
technical assistance to prepare bankable reports for seed related activities.
H. The Central Government and Regional Administrations
19.     The role of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) would be central in the successful implementation of the SSMS.
This responsibility would be discharged by MOA in close cooperation with and guidance to the relevant wings of the newly
set up regional administrations and in close collaboration with NSIA. MOA's responsibilities would include, supporting rapid
rural appraisal, as needed, in selected regions to define objectives and formulate programs; forging of links between seed
research, extension and the farmer; seed use promotion through the national, regional and grassroots extension systems; and
installing a monitoring and coordinating mechanism within the MOA to ensure a balanced and well coordinated thrust towards
the realization of the objectives of the Project.  Towards this end, MOA would make a quarterly review of SSMS
implementation progress with the concerned MOA heads of departments and divisions including extension, cooperatives,
planning, and agricultural development, and would submit its report to NSIA. In addition, annually (date to be fixed at the
Project Launch Workshop), MOA would organize detailed consultations with the regional agricultural bureaus and, drawing
on the lessons of the completed season, develop a work program for the coming year. Such consultations and decisions
would constitute a valuable and practical input into the National Seed Workshop to be annually organized by NSIA.
20.     The newly created Regional Administrations would play an increasingly critical role in SSDP implementation. In
particular, they would be responsible for implementing SSMS on the ground, and creating a general awareness as to the
benefits of the use of improved seed. Towards this end, the regional administrations would assign high priority to seed
development programs, and arrange for systematic training of selected extension functionaries at various levels. NSIA and
MOA would ensure that adequate facilities in terms of equipment and staff training are provided to regional agricultural
bureaus, to coordinate, guide and monitor the implementation of SSDP in the region. NSIA would also ensure that the
regional bureaus participate actively in the Project Launch Workshop, and set up input units within the Regional Agricultural
Bureaus. These units would monitor the seed development initiatives in the region, by developing an appropriate reporting
and management information system.
I. Capacity Building
21.     The NSIA would coordinate and implement the capacity building programs under the proposed Project and would as
such bear the overall responsibility for the Training. Each implementing department and/or agency, would prepare its
training requirements and submit these requirements to NSIA. NSIA would prepare a similar list for its own staff, and would
draw up the proposal for the training program. Much of the training would be on-the-job training; the training program
would identify the subjects and courses for training, their timing, duration, estimated costs, name of the training institution
and its location and names of persons proposed and justification for this training. The training program would include
overseas fellowships (the Project would sponsor one Ph.D and one M.Sc) and study tours, on-site training to the national,



Annex 9
-  64  -                                             Page 7 of 7
regional and field staff, selected farmers and seed traders (both in the public and the private sectors).  The Project
Implementation Committee (PlC) would review  these training proposals and approve the annual program.  IDA's "no
objection" would be required for all courses and staff selected for overseas training, as well as foreign study tours financed
under the Project.
22.     Training courses would be organized each year by NSIA for all seed distributors, wholesalers and retailers, in order
to promote an efficient and competitive seed marketing system and more efficient use of seed. The IDA would be informed of
the details of the training programs in advance. While training of seed dealers would be free of charge in the first two Project
years; the possibility of requiring the sponsors, to cover part or all of the training costs for dealers, would be evaluated at
Mid-Term Review. NSIA would finalize institutional arrangements for dealers training in 1995; details on location of training
wxould be submitted at Project Launch Workshop.
23.      The Project would essentially be managed by Ethiopians with limited short-term expatriate Technical Assistance.
The technical assistance would mainly be used for: a) rehabilitation of existing seed processing facilities; b) development of
a new marketing strategy; and c) development of the MIS for the seed sector. The current assessment of TA needs is
reflected in Annex 8. NSIA would ensure, for all local and internationally recruited Technical Assistance that: a) Terms of
Reference, qualification and experience as well as terms of employment are satisfactory to IDA; b) all proposals are
processed through Project Implementation Committee; and c) adequately qualified counterparts, for the duration of the
particular assignment are assigned to the hired technical assistants.  Further, based on a skill-gap analysis of the
counterpart. a training program would be prepared and implemented to allow local staff to assume the duties and
responsibilities of the technical assistance program within a specified time span.
J. Activities Arising from the Project Implementation Plan, Key Monitorable Indicators and Supervision Plan
24.      Finally, the schedule of activities arising out of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is indicated in Annex 9,
Attachment 1; a draft of Key Monitorable Indicators, to be finalized during the Project Launch Workshop, is also shown as
Attachment 2 in this Annex. The agreed Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 10.



FTHIOPIA: SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOI'MI:NT PROJECT
PROJFCr IMPLEMENTATION SCIIEDULE
Pro eCt
Year                                                                                                            _        -
Fiscal Year          FY 95          FY 96              FY 97              FY 98                   FY 99         1 Y 2000
No                      Key Actvites                     Quarter       1    2   3   4  _    2   3   4  _    2   3   4    1   2   3   4  _    2   3   4  _    2   3   4
1 PROJECT PROCESS
I 1.1 Finalizafinn of SAR                                             xx
_1 32 Inlernal Review                                                       xx
1.3 Negotiation                                                            xx
1.4 Board P,mSCDISion                                                      xx
1.5 Eflectivciwsa                                                                    XI   xx  xx  x x  1x  xx  XI XI  X   sX XI  lX  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  Xx
11.6 Mod-term Review                                                                                                       xl
1.7 Benchbmuk Survey                                             _xx
1.8 Impgt Evaluanon S9rvey                                                                                  xx                 xx                 xx                 xx
1.9 Implen baio Compleion Report                                                                                                                                      xx  xx
1. 10 Pjecti ck-_i_                                                                                                                                                            xx
2 PROIECT START-UP
2.1 Provision of suiabk offee xeoxmodalion for NSL              xx  xx
2.2 Esa1sinhmez of SSDP Coogdination office+saff                     xx   xx  xx
2.3 Finaaio  of TA and Taniig popo  for PY-I                                    xx
2.4 F1iinamn of key peironmase imdicamwi.
epoMng fOrM2ta 
2.5 Pirojeet L.andt Worksbop                                                    x



66 -Annex 9
Attachment I
Page 2 of 7
>     3_
- XL - _-   Lt
4i~~~~'4'
                     -1 ___   - _ 1 _ _
a~~    l -                 _ -    __t 
i1n I               I            - 11_   
~~~ z~~~
<R'   'i           '    '    '4 _4
:'~~~' _L   _          '4'4   e e
I                     '4p WW      



FTlIOPIA: SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project
Year
Fiscal Year           FY 95         PY 96               FY 97              FY 98                   FY 99          FY 2000
No                      Key Activities                    Quarter      _     2   3   4    1   2    3   4    I   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2    3   4 _                 2    3   4
3.2.1 Technical Assistance                                                                                      I   I               I
-Review TA proposaUOR by PIC                                    _    _    _        x    _x                                xx                 XX _   _            xx _
-NSIA neconunendation to IDA                                                                               X I_                xx                                     xx    _ 
-clearance of proposals by IDA                                 _          _             xx                 xx                  xx                 xx    _         _  Ix
I-mplenmentation of TA program                                                               xx  xx  ax ax  xx  x.x  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  x   xx   xx  xx  xx  xx  xx
3.2.2 Training
-Submission of debiled proposal and time
table to N1SA by each Lmplementing Agency                                             _xx                  R                  xx         _       x                   xx         _a
-Approval of local truaining by NSIA                            _                                    xx                        xI                 xx                  xx
-NSIA submit overseas training proposal to IDA                  _                       xx                 xx   _          _ x    _  _            xx                 ax
-IDA semis clearance                                                                                       A xx  _ x   _   -    xx                xx                  xx
-NSIA nmnitors implementations of program                                               xx  xx  ax  ax  XI  x         x   ax  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx
-Impact evaluation of training program                          -    _           _   __       - _x    _   -   _  xx                          xx                  xx
3.3 ESE
(i)Submission of restructuring plan                             _  xx   xx   _   -             -  _   _
(i)Submission of amnlbusmess plan                                                             xx                                      x    _   -   _  xx                    xx
(iii)Review of tbe busie paln by IDA                             _           xx   _   _          xx   _   -   _  xx   _   _             xx      - _      xx         _       xx
(iv)Submission of annual audit report                                xx    -   -    _  xx    _           _   x   _          - _                    xx              - _ I 
-4   >
o4 _



FlIIOPIA: SEED SYST:MS DEVEI OPMENT PROJICT
PROJECT IMPIEMENTATION SCHEDULI
Year
FicalYear              IY95           F Y96                FY97                FY98                      FY99           FY2000
No                       Key Activities                      Quarter       _      2    3    4    1   2    3    4  _        2    3   4  _       2    3    4    I   2    3    4    1   2    3    4
(v)Procurerent of parts for ESE processing plant                    _          _ -       _   _    _    _ -         _    _ -    -    -    -        _    _    _    _             
-Prepare project document (including timelable)                    _          _  xx I
-Review of proposal by NSIA                                       -               xx         _ -             _    _ -       _   _
_   f icaranac of proposal by IDA                                      _                   xx   _    _    -    -    _    -    __
_   Icqs.ri hIk d,%:unimii                                                            xx
-C_kar hil docum wntwIh IDA                                       -     -    _    _         xx    _    _   _                                                         _
-Obain clearamce forbid evaluation                                 _          _x    - _                                -                    _
(vi)Rehabilitation of seed processaing plabn                                                                  xx   xxK            xx   xx    _         xx  xx              xx   xx
(vii)lInsallation of Bahar Dar Processing PLant                                                                xx   xx   xx    __
(viii)Appoinrtment of Markefing Specialist for ESE                                    xI
(ix)Establish New Markeing Strategy (NMS)                            _                   xx   xx
(x)Submission of NMS proposal to IDA for review                 _ _ _ __                           xx
(xi)lmplerentation of program                                                                            xx   x       X xX   xx   xx   xx   Ax   xx  ILI  xx   xx   xx  xx   xx   xx
(xii)Review of pmgram inplementation                                                       _x                                 xx             XX             xx              xx
(xii) Basic seed fmrmn feasibility suaies                                             xx   xx   xx   xx   xx
3.4 NSIAWMOA                                                                 _              _
3.4. 1 .Secodarly Seed Multiplication Scheme
-Rapid Rural Appraisal on Selected Regions                                                   xx
-Workshop for regional, woreda RAB staff
on the scheme                                                                                 xx
e;-
CD - ;>



ETHIOPIA: SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project
Year
Fiscal Year           FY 95          FY 96               FY 97               FY 98                    FY 99          FY 2000
No.                      Key Activities                     Quarler       1     2    3   4    1   2    3   4    1   2   3    4    1   2    3    4    1   2    3    4    1   2    3    4
-Selectiun ol seed Fxtension DAs                                                              xx
-Training of DAs                                                                                xx             xx                  xx              _ xx_          _        xx
-Develop annual work program
by each Seed Extensioni DAs at Woreda level                                                     xx                  xx                  xx                 xx                   xx
-Submit work program to Regional RAB through
Woreda Ag office                                                                                    xx         _        xx                  x                   xx                  xx
-Review implementation progress (at least every six monith)      _          __  xx                                            xx -            x        __x                 xx    -   _
-Submin reports on implementation status to NSIA by RAB   _                       -                            xx        xx        xx    _          _xx          xx        xx
-Procurement of tools, bicycles, vehicles, precleaners            _  _       _          __ _    _                                                            -   -          -
(a)Prepare bid document                                                          xx
(b)Clear bid doxument wvitli IDA                                                 xx
(c)lnvite bids                                                                        xx
(d)Obtain IDA clearance for bid evaluation                                            xx
(e)Sign contract                                                  _  __ ____  xx
(f)Receive goods      ____                                                                      xx____________________   _
(g)distribule goods to beneficreries                                  ____ _                         xx   xx
3 5 Breeder Seed Production (IAR,AUA.PGRC)
JLf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;



ETHIOPIA: SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Project
Year
Fiscal Year           FY 95          FY 96              FY 97               FY 98                   FY 99          FY 2000
No    __                 Key Activities                    quarter       1    2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
3.5.1 Building Construction
-Finalize plans and specification                                               xx
-Clear bidding document with IDA and invite bid                                      xx
--Obtain IDA clearance for bid Evaluation                                            xx
-Sign contract                                                                   _        x     _
-Constructlion p.rniod                                                                         xx  xx  xx  xx  xx
3 5 2 Equipment arnd Vehicles
-Clear bidding document with IDA and invite bids                 _         xx  xx
-Clear bid evalualion report with IDA                                       _        xx
-Sign contract                                                                       xx
-Receive equipment                                                                        xx  xx
-Install equipment                                                                                           xx  xx
3 5.3.Brceder Seed Production Plan (IAR, AUA)
-Receive breeder seed requirement                                          xx                  xx                 xx                  xx                 xx                  xx
-Submit annual Work Plan to NSIA                                           xx                  xx                 xx                  xx                 xx                  xx
-Review of Work Plan by IDA                                                                    xx                 xx                  KX                 xx                  xx
-Submit progress repon                                                          xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx  xx
-4



ETHIOPIA: SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Fiscal Year           FY 95          FY 96              FY 97               FY 98                    FY 99          FY 2000
No                      Key Activities                     Quarter      1    2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4  _              2   3   4    1   2   3    4    I   2   3   4
_ 3 t, Quality Control                                               _-- _---   _ _ _ _ _                                        _    _          ___|_ .   
-Draft and review Seed Law (SL) with IDA                        xx  xx   xx
_ -_Enact SL                                                     _          _  xx  xx  xx
-Nouf,ty IDA     St er.trscomerit arrangements
-Develope standards fob seed and packages  _______  xx  xx
-Training of quality control inspectors                                                       xx  xx                                  xx  xx   __          _ _        _ _xx  xx
3 7 Seed Extension                                               __ __
-Prepare annual program                                                                   xx                  x    _             xx                  xx                 xx
-Layout of trials and demonstration                                                                xx    _           _   xx                xx         _            xx             xx
-Annual evaluation of program                                                                                xx                  xx         _        x                  xx
-Submission of reports                                                                                            xx __               xx ___             xx ____xx
TOen
 -R



ErTllOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMNENT PROJECT  KEY MONITORABLE INDICATORS
(for qualer ending ___     199 _
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                    Ic Achievemcnt
S No.      Organiation                      AcLivity                    Targct for       Targct Cunmulative                           _    Cumiulatuve to         Remarks (rmaovns for
____  ______                                                          the year          to end of quasrcr         Duting Quarter        end or quarter           Shortfall, if any)
I    Research Centers  t. Seed Production (qt)
IAR            Breeder
Pre-basic
Basic
AUA             Breeder
Pic-basic
Basic
ESE             Pre-basic
Basic
Certitiedicomercial                                                                                                                                                              r
- In Gov't farms
- By Private Contract Producers
Private Sector
Basic
Cerlilied/cornmercial
Pioner
2. Sales of seed
a) LAR
Breeder
Pre-basic
Basic
___  t
;>



ErIIIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMNENT PROJECT  KEY MONITORABLE INDICATORS
(for quarter ending     , 199     )
Actual Achievemcnt
S. No.     Organization                    Activity                   Target for      Targct Curnmulative                             Cumrnulativc to        Rcniarks (reasmms for
______                                      ehc year          to end of quartcr         During Quartcr       cnd of quarier          Shortfall, if any)
b) AUA
Breeder
Pie-basic
Basic
c) ESE
Basic
Cenified/commercial
-Direct
-Pvte trade
ESE         3. Appointment of Contract
Seed growers (ha.)
a) State Farms
b) Peasant Association
c) Commercial farmers
d) Private small holders
4. Appointment of seed dealers
Distributor
Wholesalers
Retailers
NSIA        5. Seed Dealers Training Program
Number of programs
Number of participants
6. Workshop/Seminars
Number of programs
Number of participants
-5
n
a    r ;



EHtlOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMNENT PROJECT  KEY MONITORABLE INDICATORS
(for quartcr cnding  __     199    J
Actual Achicvcmcnt
S. No.    Organization                   Activity                   Target for      Target Cumnuuativc                             Cummulativc to        Remarks (rmasons for
the year        to cnd of quartcr        During Quartcr       end of quarter         Shortfall, if any)
7. Study Tours/fellowsttip
Number of programs
Number of participants
S. Quality Control
No. of staff trained
No. of samples tested
SSMS
2 MOA/AED            1. Minikit Program
Number of Minikit
Number of beneficiaries                                                                                                                                                <
2. Training in Seed Extesnion
Number ot participants
Number of programs
Number of location
3. Trials and Demonstration
-Number of programs
-Number of participants
-Number of localion
3 CBEIAIDB           1. Seed credit to ('000 Birr)
Farmers Ihrough coops.
Farmers groups
Commercial larms
Seed Traders
Domestic joint ventures
(T



EThIIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - TI'RAINING PROGRAM OUTLINE
For Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme
Activity         Trainee                 Trainers               Duration      Approx. Dates    Location        Subjects to be covered
1Training        Farmer Seed growers     DA, SMS Agronomy    2 days           One month          PA I IQs      I lands on training on tiie followinig
before sowing                   Role of seed, new varieties, replacement need, seed selections,
season                          seed productions techniques, including roguing, isolation
harvesting, thiashing, drying storage marketing-bastot on ? etc
Gender issues;
Trainiiig        IcX.clopment Assts.     Res. Str, PGRC, RAB   3 days         2 monithis before    Woreda HQs   All of the above-plus the basic concept of SSMS, role of each
SMS - IX1li il/c SSMS                                        sowuig season                   agency at various stages, plaiming of supplies - ihputs- and
specialists lacilities for l)A-, what can or cannot be promised, to
farners - Time Table of all activities - Gender issues;
paticLipatory appmoaches.
Trainuig         Zonal and RAI  staff for   NSIA, ESE, Res. ?   3 days        3 months befoFe    RAB 1IlQs     Basic concept of SMS
SSMS                    IAR, AUA, PGRC                       sowing season                   - Technology aspects
- seed technology
- seed production and management
- crop protection and storage
- Administrative Aspects
- Financial Aspects, including provision
yields for farmers
- Gender Issuance, participatory
approaches
Workshop on      RAB - Cluef+ l/c SSMS   NSIA will organize                   4 months before    Addis Ababa   - Basic concepts of SSMS
SSMS             + on zonal + ESE + IAR                                       sowing season                    -Work plan
+ AUA + PGRC +                                                                               a) Training at various levels - finalization of subjects, time table
would paricipate.                                                                            and identification of trainers;
b) arranging physical inputs. determination of requirements
procurement schedule, delivery schedule (seeds, sieves, bins,
others); c) mobility at various levels - mode of transportation -
fixed and variable costs, d) Financial Aspects costs of physical
inputs, costs of mobility including POL and per diem of dnvers,
costs of faculty at various levels, costs of incentives of DAs and
SMS, - how will the delegation of powers be detenninied to cut
delays.
to
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                                     .NO1.



- 76 -                                              Annex 10
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTENIS DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
TGE input into Supervision Activities: TGE input into the supervision will include but not be limited to
(a) regular submission of routine progress reports to IDA; (b) providing detailed progress updates and analysis to
IDA Task Manager upon arrival: (c) Arranging meetings, field visits, and gathering of data and information for
the mission; (d) organizing opening briefing session and wrap-up meetings with the chairperson, NSIC; and (e)
joint project supervision.
IDA Supervision Input into key activities: will be in accordance with the following tentative supervision plan.
Approximate                  Activity                               Expected Skill        Staff Input
Month/Year                                                          Requirement           (staff-weeks)
6/95           Project Launch Workshop                       - Task Manager,
- Procurement,                   10.0
- Disbursement,
- Institutional and Training
- Seed Specialist.
9/95           Supervision Mission: Review start-up,         - Task Manager,
organizational arrangements for project       - Procurement,                   10.0
coordination and implementation including     - Business Development,
procurement, accounting and record keeping.   - Seed Technologist,
Review SSMS implementation.                   - Accounting.
2/96           Supervision Mission: Review preparation for   - Task Manager
1996 production season. Progress in          - MIS Specialist                  8.0
procurement, enterprise development and       - Seed Technologist
capacity building. NSIA annual work program.    - Training Specialist
Progress in SSMS.
9/96           Supervision Mission: Review progress and      - Task Manager
implementation problems. Focus on SSMS, ESE,  - Marketing                      8.0
Enterprise Development, Audit, TA and         - Seed Technologist
Training.                                     - MIS Specialist
2/97           Supervision Mission: Preparation for 1997     - Task Manager
production season including SSMS, QC and      - Training Specialist            8.0
enterprise development. Capacity building,    - Seed Technologist
Audit, NSIA implementation capability.        - Accounting and Audit
.   Specialist
8/97           Mid-Term Review: Comprehensive review of      - Task Manager
policy, institutional and implementation issues.    - Procurement             24.0
Progress in implementing each project         - Seed Technologist
component. Compliance with audit requirement.   - Marketing
- Business Development
- MIS Specialist
2/98           Supervision Mission: same as for 2/96         - Same as 2/96               Same as 2/96
8/98           Supervision Mission: Same as 8/96             - Same as 8/96               Same as 8/96
2/99           Supervision Mission: Same as 2/97             - Same as 2/97               Same as 2/97
8/99           Supervision Mission: Same as 8/97             - Same as for 8/97           Same as 8/97
2/2000         Supervision/ICR Misslin: Complete evaluation    - Same as for Mid-Term         24.0
keeping in view [CR =udthnes                   review



- 77 -
Annex 11
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTENMS DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Procurement Packages
Year I         Year 2          Year 3          Year 4           Year 5             oat
_ (l995/96 >   (1996/97)       (19917/98)      (1998/99)      (I 999/2000)
Works.
civil Nvorks
- LCB                            10                             5                                -                15
land development
- LCB                                           l-                               I               1                 3
Goods:
equipment
- ICB                            10              2              4               2                2                20
- LCB                             5              3              4               3                3                1i
- Other                                         2                -              -                -                 2
vehicles
-[CB                             4              2                l              I                1                 9
-LCB                             I               -               -              -                -                 I
furniture
- LCB                                           I              -               -I
- Other                          I               -              I               -2
seeds and grains
- LCB                                            I               I              -
31             1        -      17              7                7                73
file: nsp_proc.doc



- 78 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
FTHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Benefitting from Improved Seed Produced by ESE 1/
f area in ha)
Project Year        Area             A\rea            Area            Area             Area             Area                   'I tal
From Seed        From Seed        From Seed       From Seed        From Seed       From Seed             Penetlbming Arca
Produced         Produced         Produced        Produced         Produced         Produced                 rn the
Year I           Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5           Year 6               P7riect Year
0
0
3             1 5 J.0o0                                                                                                   I 50,000
4             1 5 .,r00        150,000                                                                                    300.000
5             150,000          150,000          :50,)00                                                                  450,000
6             150.0J0          150,000          i50.o0o0        I50,000                                                   6)0,000
7             1 50.000          50000           1 ,0.000 1I 50Q000               150,000                                 750,000
8                              150,000          I50,0)0         1 50.000         150,000          150,000                 750,000
9
and onwards                                          150.000         150,000          150000            50.000                750,000
Nate: I/    The area is based on an improved average seed production by the Ethiopian Seed Enterpnse (ESE ) of 15 thousand tonrs per year and
has been calculated by allowing for a seed rate of I 00 kg per ha. whereby replenishment would on average, take place once every
five years
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Benefitting from Improved Seed Produced by SSMS 1/
(area in ha)
Project Year        Area              Area              Area              Area             Area             Area                  Total
From Seed         From Seed         From Seed         From Seed        From Seed        From Seed             Benefitting
Produced          Produced          Produced          Produced        Produced          Produced             Area in the
YearX             Year 2            Year 3           Year 4            Year 5           Year 6             Project Year
0 00
400                                                                                                            400
3               4i00              700                                                                                         1 .100
4               400               700              1,200                                                                      2,300
5               400               700              1,200             2, 100                                                   4,400
6               400               700              1,200             2.100            3,200                                   7,600
7                                 700              I.2100            '1-00            3,200            3,200                 10,400
8                                                  1,200             2,100            3,200            3,200                 12,700
9                                                                    2,100            3 200            3.200                 14,900
10                                                                                    3,200            3.200                 16,000
II
and onwards                                                                                                 3,200                 16,000
Note I/    The area is based on an improved average seed production as indicated in the Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme (SSMS), it is assumed that
20% of the improved produced seed is actually distnbuted by the growers to neighbonng farmers, the affected area has been calculated by allowing for a seed
rate of 100 kg per ha, whereby replenishment would, on average, take place once every five years.
file: nsp_tab.doc



_ j9 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
ETHIOPIA
SEED StYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Values
(Constant Prices of 1994)
Food Crops
Ntaize (No 2 Yellow, f.o b Gulf)                                    US$ I 10 /ton
Wheat (Canadian No. 1, wvestern red
spnng in store St La"Tence,                                  US$ 200 /ton
export)
Wheat (US No. 2, f o.b Gult)                                         US$ 135 /ton
Average food crop port of origin                                    USS 150 /ton
Loading and Shipping                                                USS 40 /ton
Port fees, unloading, bagging, etc.                                 USS  50 /ton
Transport and distribution                                           USS 60 /ton
Total at farmgate                                                   USS 300 /ton
(Biii 1800 /ton) a/
Note: a/ exchange rate Birr 6.0 = US$ 1.0
file: nsp_pe.doc



- 80 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Cash-flow and Switching Values
(all values in Birr million, 1994 constant prices)
scrial no. ',car    Investment     O & M           Benefits        Benefits          Net
Seed ESE       Seed SSMS        Cash-flow
1             56.9              9.4                             -             -66.3
2             31.6              9.6             -               0.1           -41.1
3             3(0.7            11 0            27.0             0.2           -14.5
4              19.1            11.0            54.0             0.4            24.3
5              17.8            11.4            81.0             0.8            52.6
6                              I1 4           108.0             1.4             98.0
7                              11.4           135.0             1.9            125.5
8                              11.4           135.0             2.3            125.9
9                              11.4           135.0             2.7            126.3
10                             11.4            135.0            2.9            126.5
11                             11.4            135.0            2.9            126.5
12                             11.4            135.0            2.9            126.5
13                             11.4            135.0            2.9            126.5
14                             11.4            135.0            2.9            126.5
15                             11.4            135.0            2.9            126.5
NPV             125.0           82.8            607.3            10.3           409.8
EIRR            36%
NPV          Switching          Cross
@ 10%           Value           Check
Total Benefits                        618            -66%             208
-of which ESE                        607             -66%             208
-of which SSMS                         10           1910%             208
Total costs                           208            197%             618
-of which investment                  125            394%             618
-of whichO&M                           83            646%             618



- S1 -
Annex 13
Page I of 3
ETHIOP IA
SEED SYSTEMIS DEVELOPNIENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Introduction
1.     The proposed Seed Systems Development Project (SSDP) has been rated Category B for environmental
assessment, as the environmental issues to be addressed are limuted and narrow in scope. The main issue relates to
pest management and the use of pesticides in seed production and processing. In addition, it is desirable to
examine the potential impact of the project on the genetic diversity of crop species in Ethiopia.
Pest Management and Pesticides
2      Pesticide use in the seed sector includes seed dressing (applied either at a conditioning plant or at the user
level) to control seed-borne or soil-borne pests and diseases, treatment of fumigation of stored seeds to control post-
harvest pests and diseases, and field application of pesticides to protect growing plants (breeder seed production
and bulking up). The proposed project would provide support for seed production, processing and storage, both
directlv for ESE operations and through assistance for the development of private sector initiatives through NSIA.
It is beyond the scope of this project to attempt to establish a broad-based integrated pest management (1PM)
program for production of food crops in Ethiopia. However, IDA policies require that the project promote rational
pest management methods within the activities supported by the project, and that it include specific measures to
minimize human and environmental hazards by supporting appropriate selection. use and handling of pesticides.
3.     A national pesticide legislation enacted recently uill soon introduce a pesticide registration scheme which
will set standards for pesticide importation, production and use in Ethiopia, based on effectiveness, health and
environmental impacts. Until this scheme is put into effect, however, steps must be taken to ensure appropnate
pesticide selection and use consistent with the Government's policies and objectives as well as IDA policies and
guidelines.
4.     Technical issues and institutional responsibilities relating to pesticides and pest management differ
between the existing state farm and peasant sectors. It can be anticipated that some simnilar distinctions will
continue to be appropriate in the future between the peasant sector and any large-scale, commercially-oriented
operations which may supplement or replace the state farms. For purposes of the proposed project, this generally
parallels the distinction between components to strengthen the public sector and "forrnal" private sector capacity
for production, processing and marketing of seeds, versus the informal (peasant) sector "secondary seed
multiplication scheme,'(SSMS). The relevant issues for each sector are discussed below.
Fertilizer Users
5.     The State Farm and the Formal Commercial Sector: The ESE currently provides seeds directly to state
farms, pre-treating them with insecticides and fungicides at its seed conditioning plants. The MSFCTD's
Agricultural Research and Advisory Department (ARAD) is responsible for recommending which products are
used, based on its own criteria (e.g. product must be registered in at least two countries) and field testing for
effectiveness. Currently recommended are various commercial mnixtures of non-systemic fungicides (e.g. Thiram)
and insecticides (e.g. Lindan, Furadan).  These products are acceptable under IDA guidelines and their
procurement can therefore be supported under the project. However, the products shown in the negative list of
pesticides (see below) would not be considered for financing under the project.
6.     The ESE is also conscious of %%orker health and safety in handling seed treatment chemical in its seed
processing plants, using an automated method involving slurries in order to reduce exposure and dust
contamination. Handling will be further improved under the project as rehabilitation of the seed processing plants
will include better isolation/compartmentalization of the seed treatment equipment.



- 82 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
7.      For stored product pest control. MSFCTD/ARAD recommends Aluminum Phosphide as a fumigant and
pyrimiphos methyl (Actellic) and Malathion to spray surfaces of storage facilities. These products are acceptable
under [DA guidelines.
8.      MSFCTD indicated that pesticide use in the field for food crops is largely limited to herbicides, as xkecds
are the major production constraint. Pesticide treatment is only very rarely required for control of animal pests or
diseases of these crops.  A  list of the herbicides, fungicides and insecticides currently recommended by
MSFCTD/ARAD for maize, sorghum, wvheat. barlev, teff. pulses, various beans. sesame, rape seed. sunflower.
fruits and vegetables; is available in the project files. The list also indicates those products not to be procured with
assistance from IDA.
9.      Because the project will promote the entry of new participants in the seed processing and marketing
business. it will be necessary to ensure proper selection and handling of seed treatment chemicals beyond direct
ESE and state farms operations. The NSIC should include this aspect in the proposed Seed Act. At the same time,
NSIA will be responsible for including seed treatment aspect in its advice and assistance to individuals and
cnterprises entering the business, ensuring that these processes are in accordance with government regulations and
with IDA guidelines.
10.    The Peasant Sector: The Agricultural Inputs Supply Enterprise (AISCO) is responsible for distributing
fertilizers and pesticides to peasant farmers. The majority of pesticides provided through AISCO are currently
procured under an IDA-financed project, and therefore subject to IDA approval. However, some pesticides not
eligible for IDA financing are purchased using resources from other donors.
11.     ESE does not pre-treat seeds it supplies for the peasant sector, due to the risk that excess treated seeds may
be sold or used for food or animal feed. ESE and MOA recommendation, which IDA endorses, is that treated seed
should not be provided to the peasant sector as a whole until the agricultural extension system is strong enough to
provide the necessary education and technical support.
12.     AISCO does, however, provide seed dressing chemicals to some peasant farmers so that they can treat
their own seed or, in some cases, have their seed treated for them by local agricultural extension agents at the
distribution centers.  In general, seed treatment is an acceptable crop protection method, preferable to the
alternative of greater use of pesticide spraying. However, it is recognized that the agricultural extension service is
not yet sufficiently strong to provide sufficient training and technical support to peasant farmers to ensure that seed
dressings are handled safely and effectively. The MOA is beginning to address this by developing appropriate
training and extension materials with the assistance of an FAO consultant. Nevertheless, great caution must
continue to be exercised regarding the level of toxicity of seed treatment chemicals (as with any pesticides) to be
handled and used by poorly educated small-scale farmers.
13.    It is therefore of great concern that the seed dressings currently provided to peasant farmers in some areas
where termites are deemed to be a problem contain materials such as Aldrin and Chlordane/Heptachlor, which are
highly toxic and therefore banned or severely restricted in a large number of countries.
14.    As the new committee responsible for establishing pesticide regulations and registration carries out its
task of deternining which products will be permitted for use in Ethiopia in the future, it is to be hoped that use of
these products will discontinued entirely. Together with the IAR it should also examine the cost-effectiveness of
using insecticidal seed treatments against termites and other soil-borne pests. In the meantime, it must be noted
that these products are not eligible for financing by IDA and should not be recommended or used in any activity
supported or promoted under the project.
15.    Under the Secondary Seed Multiplication Scheme, MOA staff will be responsible to identify appropriate
pest management methods, both chemical and non-chemical (including seed processing, seed production and seed
storage), and to assist and train the participants to use them.



- 83 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
Maintaining Genetic Diversity
16.    Ethiopia is the center of origin for a number of food crops of regional and world-wide importance.
Farmers all over the countrv continue to grow and select primitive cultivars of indigenous crop species
("landraces") as well as those of some important introduced crop species. The genetic diversity of some crops such
as wsheat, sorghum, millet and teff grown by farmers throughout Ethiopia may be as great or greater than is found
anvwhere else in the world. The biological diversity embodied in these landraces and primitive cultivars represents
a priceless genetic store of characteristics such as drought tolerance, insect and disease resistance, specific
agronomic and nutritional traits. etc. * hich are equally (and in some cases more) important as straight -ield,
particularly for subsistence-level farmers. While the introduction and development of higher-yielding varieties is
clearly necessarv to achieve agricultural growth, there is a risk that these modem varieties will displace and
eliminate the indigenous genetic resource base unless specific measures are taken to ensure that it is incorporated
effectively into breeding programs and is maintained and continues to evolve as a source of genetic raw material
for the future.
17.    This objective is being addressed in part by an On-farm Conservation" project which is supported by a
consortium of Canadian NGOs, headed by the Unitarian Service Committee of Canada (now USC/C). T'he On-
farm Conservation program, implemented in collaboration with the Ethiopian Plant Genetic Resources Centre
(PGRCIE), encourages peasant farmers in selected (particularly drought-affected) areas to continue growing local
landraces of several staple crops which are in danger of being displaced by more modem varieties. The breeder
seed is obtained from PGRC/E, from IAR breeders and from farmers themselves. The project assists and
supervises production of seeds of selected landraces and primitive varieties, buys excess seed from the farmers at an
attractive price, and distributes it to other farmers to grow in the next season.
18.    The On-farm Conservation project in Ethiopia is one component of a broader "Seeds of Survival" (SOS)
program which aims to promote development of a sustainable, long-term, secure and abundant food supply in
Africa through the preservation, enhancement and distribution of the genetic diversity of food crops. Other
elements of the SOS include training (international in scope, held twice yearly in Ethiopia), technical assistance,
information networks and education relating to the importance of maintaining genetic diversity and farrmer-level
plant breeding.
19.    Projects such as these are important to complement and provide a counter-balance to efforts to introduce
and develop a limited number of high-yielding, modem varieties which are likely to require high levels of external
inputs (fertilizers, irrigation, pest management) to be profitable, and therefore will not be appropriate for may
small farmers. MOA responsible for the implementation of the SSMS, and the breeding programs of the IAR and
AUA under this IDA-Financed project would coordinate with the PGRC/E and the On-farm Conservation project
to benefit form the expertise and groundwork already established and to ensure that their efforts are complementary
and mutually reinforcing. Accordingly, SSDP is providing funds to strengthen the institutional capacity of
PGRC/E.
Negative List of Pesticides
20.    IDA would make available to NSIA the negative list of pesticides, as updated from time to time, to help
the concerned institutions ensure that the hazardous products are neither funded under IDA financed project, nor
otherwise encouraged for importation into the country.






- 85 -
Annex 14
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in the Project Filc
I      Proclamation No. 56/1993 dated Julv 16. 19931 o provide for the Establishment of the National
Seed Industiy Agencv
2      National Seed Industry Policy. October 1992
3.     Study of Ethiopian Seed Industry: Report prepared by Landell Mills Associates. Columbus
House, Trossachs Drive. Bath, BA26RR, Avon. UK, October 1987
4.     Seed Industrv Appraisal prepared by Dr. Michael Colegrove, International Development
Services, P.O. Box 72 Clive. lowa 503)3. March 31. 1989
5.     Seed Marketing Study prepared by Agrisvsteins (Overseas) Ltd. UK. Final Report. September
199(
6.     Detailed Cost Tables. December 1994
7.     List of recommended Pesticides and Spray Equipments Revised for the 1992 Crop Season,
October 1991. Ministry of State Farms Development. Addis Ababa. Ethiopia






I               I                    I                    ~ ~I  I               I                     I                     I 
34,                  36'                   35W                  40'                   42-                  44                    46'                  48.
ETHIOPIA
SEED SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ethlopian Seed Enterprise (ESE)
Current and Prolposed Seed Production and Processing Facilitie
1 6'                                                     RRT E                              EDA                                     ESE PROCESSING FACILITIES AND STORES            1 ' 
*  ESE STORES
I,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ESE BASIC SEED FARMS
rl   ESE POSSIBLE EXPANSION AREAS
(plants and stares subject to feasibility study)
-                      ~~ ~~~~~0 SELECTED TOWNS
TIGRAY                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                      14
1 4'      SUDAN                           f*-TGA                                
(                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATES (Unofficial 1994 boundaries)
-  1"~~~~'  MEKELE                                      -   ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
s~~~~~~~    [] ~~~~~~~~~~~The State^Rgion names are per Article 47
GONDER                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the Constitution of Ethiopia
/                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GULF OF
12'                                       "~~~~~~LAKE  WOLDIA                 AFA                                                        ADEN
/  '~~~.           "~TANA                              AFR           JB tT
<AMHARA                                         DJB fT
BEN HANGUL BAHIRDAR *                ~~~~~KOMBOLCHA                 joke A'~ 
DEBRE                                                    /
MARKOS(
0
ADDIS                 J   HARARN,,
NEKEMPTI              ABABA                            HARAR 0.
METU              >W LS              IZEIT   TEYA        -n
5'                      ~~~~~~~~~0 WOIOG`~                             ONIDE
~GAMBELLA                                                                                                                                                  7
JIMA0          Lake      Lake Ziway 
e(O EiEEOROMIA
The boundaries colors>  SEPRA~-- ~~ARBA   AWASSA DODOLAROBE                                         SOMALI                           /        SOMALIA
denominations and an                           MNHRBA         eS~6
on this map  do  not               -k 
imply, on the port of  ~i          0'Y
The World Bank Group,      .
a ny judgmn on the legal                              ,Lao4
ttsof any territory                       i'                               p'
or any endorsement 
or acceptance of such             I,O'R
boundaries.                       *'N 
KILOMETERS 0   50  100 150 200 250 300 350 400 
K    AE                                    .-'MILES 0                                                     50     100O   15,0    200    25
UGANDA~~34                                                                  40'3'TLRAN                                  44'~~.  2            46'                   48'









IMAGING
Report No:       13739 ET
Type: SAR



