CREDIT NUMBER 2741 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Seed Systems Development Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  f  I 4-Lr   ,1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2741 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1995, between FEDERAL
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower's Council of Ministers having adopted on October
21, 1992, the Borrower's National Seed Industry Policy (NSIP) describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to develop a broad-based and competitive
national seed industry (hereinafter called the Program);
(B) the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution of the Program,
and as part of the Program having undertaken to carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(C)    Parts A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6, A.7, B.6 and B.8 of the Project will be carried
out by Ethiopian Seed Enterprise (ESE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ESE a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and ESE; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Condit;ons and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "Special Account" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ESE pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(C)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d)  "NSIC"  means  the National   Seed  Industry  Council
established pursuant to the Borrower's Proclamation No.56/1993,
dated July 16, 1993;
(e)   "NSIA" means  the National   Seed  Industry Agency,
established pursuant to the Borrower's Proclamation No. 56/1993 dated
July 16, 1993;
(f) "ESE" means the Ethiopian Seed Enterprise established
pursuant to the Borrower's Regulation No.154/1993 dated November 19,
1993;
(g)  "IAR" means the Institute of Agricultural Research;
(h)  "AUA" means the Alemaya University of Agriculture;
(i)  "ESA" means the Ethiopian Standards Authority;
(j)  "Regional Bureaus of Agriculture" means the departments
responsible for agriculture in each of the Borrower's Regional
Governments;
(k)   "NVRC" means the National Variety Release Committee
under NSIA;
(1)   "Project Year" means each period of twelve months,
beginning from the Effective Date and ending twelve months
thereafter;
(m)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan described
in the Borrower's letter of February 3, 1995;
(n)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 27, 1989 and March
1, 1991 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(0)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ESE, of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿-3-
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US dollars two special deposit accounts
(Special Account "A" for Parts A.1, A.2, A.8, B.1, B.2, B.3, B.4
B.5, B.7, B.9, B.10, B.11, and B.12 of the Project, and Special
Account "B" for Parts A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6, A.7, B.6 and B.8 of the
Project) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement; and
(c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum;
(b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the


﻿-4-
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths oZ one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 15,
2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount;
(b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification; and
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the


﻿-5-
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. ESE is designated as representative of the
Borrower in respect of Parts A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6, A.7, B.6 and B.8
of the Project for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out Parts A.1, A.2, A.8, B.1, B.2,
B.3, B.4, B.5, B.7, B.9, B.10, B.11 and B.12 of
the Project, through NSIA, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, environmental, and
financial practices and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for such Parts of the
Project; and
(ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ESE to
perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be
taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable ESE to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
- (c)  The Borrower shall relent a portion of the proceeds of
the Credit to ESE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ESE, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall include,


﻿-6-
inter alia, an interest rate of fourteen (14) percent per annum, a
repayment period of ten years, and provisions requiring ESE to bear
the foreign exchange risk; and
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
A.3, A.4, A.5, A.6, A.7, B.6 and B.8 of the Project shall be carried
out by ESE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than six
months after the Effective Date, design, and thereafter, implement
mechanisms satisfactory to the Association to encourage the private
sector to: (i) produce and distribute improved seed, and (ii) engage
in plant breeding; and (b) ensure that: (i) the private sector shall
be represented, in a manner acceptable to the Association, in all
committees to be established for the implementation and coordination
of the Project, and (ii) private sector operators have unhindered
access to breeder seeds of publicly-bred varieties and to basic
seeds from ESE, and are allowed to import seed for use in the
development of new varieties and in the production of seed, in
accordance with the Program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) provide sufficient and
timely budgetary and staffing support to enable NSIA to carry out
its responsibilities in the implementation of the Project; (b) by
not later than the start of the 1995 crop season, eliminate all
price subsidies on seed; and (c) establish, not later than September
30, 1996, enforcement mechanisms, satisfactory to the Association,
for seed quality control and seed certification.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30,
1996 establish inspection and detection procedures, satisfactory to
the Association, for the effective application of its plant
quarantine system; and (b) thereafter implement said procedures with
due diligence and efficiency.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) prior to the end of the
first Project Year, publish NVRC's first annual seed/variety


﻿-7-
register, listing varieties in production and those withdrawn from
production; and (b) thereafter, ensure that said seed/variety
register is updated and published each year.
Section 3.08. (a) Not later than six months after the end of
the second Project Year, the Borrower, through NSIA, shall conduct,
jointly with the Association and ESE, a comprehensive review of the
implementation of the Project. Without limitation upon the
generality of the foregoing the review shall cover, inter alia, the
implementation and management aspects of the Project, implementation
procedures, progress made in carrying out the Project including the
performance and use of technical assistance personnel, the role of
national counterpart staff, the status and results of training,
reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement procedures
and the overall sustainability of the Project;
(b)  Not later than three months prior to such review, the
Borrower, through NSIA, shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, including an assessment of the progress achieved
in carrying out the various parts of the Project; and
(c)  Promptly after said review, the Borrower, through NSIA,
shall: (i) prepare an action plan satisfactory to the Association
based on the recommendations stemming of said review, and (ii) adopt
and implement said plan for the remainder of the Project period.
Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)  prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such other date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof;


﻿-8-
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in   accordance   with  ,appropriate   auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request; and
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)  maintain,   or  cause   to  be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at   least one year after     the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of the Special
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant- to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)  A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;
Cb)   ESE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ESE will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)   The Council of Ministers' Regulation No. 154/1993 of
November 19, 1993 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ESE to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement; and
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ESE or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ESE;
(b)  NSIA has: (i) filled PCMU's positions listed        in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, with staff whose


﻿- 10-
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall be acceptable to the Association, (ii) furnished to the
Association for review and comments its annual work program for
1995/96, including procurement, technical assistance and training
programs, and (iii) finalized standard bidding documents acceptable
to the Association for procurement under the Project;
(c)   ESE has furnished to the Association: (i) an action plan
acceptable to the Association for the restructuring of its
operations and management, including key monitoring indicators for
its implementation, and (ii) its annual business plan for 1995,
acceptable to the Association; and
(d)   The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that an accounting system,
acceptable to the Association, is in place.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ESE, and is legally binding upon ESE in accordance with
its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreemeint has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ESE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ESE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Telex: 21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
. By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                 k
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works:
(a) under Parts             120,000        50%
A.5 and A.6
of the Project
(b) under Part
A.4 of the Project      360,000        50%
(c) under other
Parts of the Project    480,000       60%
(2) Goods:
(a) Equipment:                             100% of foreign
expenditures, and
85% of local
expenditures
(i) under Parts
A.5 and A.6
of the Project        1,130,000
(ii) under Part
A.4 of the Project      660,000
(iii) under other
Parts of the
Project               2,620,000
(b) Vehicles:                              100% of foreign
expenditures, and
85% of local
expenditures
(i) under Parts
A.3, A.4, A.5
Amount of the
and A.7 of the
Project               1,040,000


﻿- 14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expen.ditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed.
(ii) under other
Parts of the
Project                480,000
(c) Seeds under
Part B.5 of the
Project              1,860,000        90%
(3) Training                                  100%
(a) under Parts
A.3, A.5, B.6
and B.8
of the Project         140,000
(b) under other
Parts of the
Project                900,000
(4) Technical                                 100%
Assistance:
(a) under Part B.6
of the Project          70,000
(b) under other
Parts of the
Project                620,000
(5) Studies:                                  100%
(a) under Part A.4
of the Project          70,000
(b) under other Parts
of the Project         690,000
(6) Operating Costs           2,140,000       90%  of  payments
made in PY1 and
PY2, and 50% of
payments     made
in PY3, PY4 and PY5


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Refunding of                550,000        Amounts due
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation Advance                        Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated               1,260,000
TOTAL                     15,200,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(c)   the  term   "operating  costs"   means   expenditures
incremental on account of the Project for office supplies, expenses
for travel, salaries of local staff employed on a contractual basis,
rental, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment,
utilities, and rental and maintenance of office; and
(d)   the terms "PY1", "PY2", -PY3", "PY4", and "PY5" mean the
first Project Year, the second Project Year, the third Project Year,
the fourth Project Year, and the fifth Project Year, respectively.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures
under Categories (1) (b), and (2) (a) (ii), unless the Borrower has
furnished to the Association detailed technical specifications and
cost   estimates,  acceptable   to  the   Association,  for   the
implementation of Part A.4 of tzhe Project; and (c) expenditures
under Category (2) (c), unless the Borrower has furnished to the
Association a comprehensive action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for the implementation of Part B.5 of the Project.


﻿- 16 -
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 17-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to help increase the
Borrower's agricultural production through the development of a
broad-based and competitive seed industry.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Seed Enterprise Development
1.    Implementation of a secondary seed multiplication scheme to
strengthen the Borrower's informal seed exchange system including:
(a) training of farmers in selected locations in improved seed
production and cleaning and preservation technology; and (b)
acquisition by farmers of basic equipment and materials.
2.    Strengthening of the Borrower's seed extension system through:
(a) training of extension agents and subject matters specialists;
(b) improving the mobility of extension staff through acquisition of
bicycles and mules; and (c) strengthening of management and service
delivery, through provision of equipment, vehicles, materials and
technical assistance.
3.    Restructuring  and  strengthening  of  ESE's .organization,
management and operations including: (a) upgrading of operational
and management capacity of regional units- through training; (b)
diversification of its seed programs to include hybrid and vegetable
seed production and marketing; (c) developing brand names for
marketing of seeds; and (d) seed production through contracts with
private farmers and cooperatives, and seed marketing through private
traders and cooperatives.
4.    Establishment and operation of a basic seed farm in the
northern part of the Borrower's territory to produce basic seeds.
5.    Rehabilitation and improvement of ESE's seed processing
infrastructure, including: (a) installation of a seed processing
plant in Bahir Dar; (b) provision of one mobile seed cleaner to
ensure seed supply in the northern part of the Borrower's territory;
and (c) training of ESE's staff in seed processing, packaging and
labeling.
6.    Improving seed quality control through: (a) upgrading of the
ESE's headquarter seed testing laboratory; and (b) setting up of
five regional mini-seed testing laboratories.
7.    Provision of vehicles to support ESE's marketing activities.
8.    Promotion of private sector participation in production,


﻿- 18-
processing, and marketing of seeds through: (a) assistance to
private  producer-sellers   (seedsmen)  in  the   preparation  of
feasibility studies and business plans for seed production and
commercialization projects; and (b) provision of advisory support
to small and medium enterprises to engage in production,
multiplication, processing and distribution of hybrids, improved
open pollinated seed varieties and seeds of specialty, and high
value crops.
Part B:     Capacity Building
1.    Strengthening of the Borrower's departments, committees, and
agencies involved in the seed sector, including NSIA, NVRC, PQS, and
PGRC through training, acquisition of equipment, materials, vehicles
and technical advisory services.
2.    Construction of storage and drying rooms at the PGRC's
headquarters.
3.    Upgrading of: (a) AUA's breeder seed stations located at
Alemaya and Debre Zeit, and (b) IAR's breeder seed units located at
Holetta, Melkassa, Bako, Awassa, Kulumsa, Adet and Melka Werer.
4.    Establishment  of  a  national quality   control and   seed
certification system, including establishment and operation of an
independent national seed testing laboratory under NSIA.
5.    Establishment of a strategic reserve of all varieties of seeds
to enhance the Borrower's capacity to cope "with emergency
situations.
6.    Provision of technical expertise to assist in the preparation
of specifications of equipment and machinery for rehabilitation of
seed processing facilities.
7.    Provision of technical assistance to assist in the selection
of seed processing equipment adapted to the needs of the private
sector;
8.    Training of ESE's staff in: (i) repair, operation and
maintenance of seed processing and storage facilities, and (ii) seed
processing, packaging, and storage operations.
9.    Development  of    streamlined  supervision,   procurement,
disbursement and reporting procedures and systems to assist NSIA in
the implementation of the Project.
10.   Training of seed farmers, traders and enterprises, in: (a)
market promotion; and (b) operation, management, and maintenance of
seed processing plants.


﻿- 19 -
11.   Strengthening of AUA' s undergraduate programs in crop science
and seed technology through, inter alia, enhancement of skills of
teaching and research staff.
12.   Training abroad of AUA's faculty members in specialized
disciplines of seed technology.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the
evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the
contract. The bid validity period may be extended a second    time
only if the bidding documents or the request for extension shall
provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of
extension. Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made
subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the Association's prior
approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days,
and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period; and
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures.
1.    Works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-21 -
2.    Items, or groups of items, of: (a) seeds and grains required
under Part B.5 of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $2,900,000; and (b) equipment and vehicles
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$2,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items, or groups of items, of: (a) office supplies, and
consumable for laboratories up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $200,000; and (b) transport animals provided under
Part A.2 (b) of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contracts for proprietary equipment required for Part A.5 of
the Project, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)  With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract;
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿-22-
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and ESE in carrying out the
Project the Borrower and ESE. shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower and ESE shall employ such consultants under contracts using
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower and ESE shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of
consulting firms ; (c) assig,.ments of critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for
employment of consulting firms raising the amounts of the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or      (e) amendments to
contracts for employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    Under the supervision of the National Seed Industry Council
(NSIC), the National Seed Industry Agency (NSIA) will be responsible
for the coordination of the implementation of the Project. NSIA
shall establish, and maintain until the completion of the Project,
a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) , headed, by a
Project Coordinator, and with staff whose qualifications shall at
all times be satisfactory to the Association, including a Project
accountant/disbursement officer, a management information and
reporting officer, two operations officers, a secondary seed
multiplication scheme specialist, a procurement officer, a training
specialist, and a business specialist.
2.    The Borrower, through NSIA, shall conduct, jointly with ESE,
a quarterly review of the implementation of the Project, and
thereafter promptly take all measures necessary on its part to
remedy any shortcoming identified during said review.
3.    The Borrower, through NSIC and NSIA, shall: (a) adopt and
apply criteria acceptable to the Association for the selection of
private sector operators to be assisted under Part A.8 of the
Project; and (b) establish and maintain a Project Implementation
Committee (PIC) which shall have an advisory role to PCMU, and shall
comprise, inter alia, representatives of private sector seed
producers and traders.
4.    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Borrower, through NSIA,
shall organize, jointly with Association and ESE, a workshop for the
launching of the Project implementation which shall cover, inter
alia, disbursement and procurement procedures for the Project.
5.    The Borrower, through NSIA, shall furnish to the Association
quarterly reports, in such detail and of such scope as the
Association may reasonably request, on the implementation of all
components of the Project.
6.     Not later than two months before the end of each Project
Year, the Borrower, through NSIA, shall: (a) organize a workshop
with the participation of regional agricultural research and
extension offices, ESE, private sector seed producers and traders,
and farmers, to review progress achieved in the implementation of
the Project during the concerned Project Year; (b) based on the
recommendations of said workshop, prepare and furnish :-o the
Association, before the start of the following Project Year, a work
plan, acceptable to the Association, for implementation of the
Project during the following Project Year, including, inter alia, a
procurement plan, a staff deployment plan, details of consultants'
services and technical. assistance requirements, detailed training
programs, and quarterly expenditure projections; and (c) thereafter,
implement said work plan, taking into account the Association's


﻿- 24 -
comments thereon.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that the Project implementation is
carried out in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan,
subject to such modifications as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association from time to time.


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means:
(i) for the Special Account "A", Categories (1) (c),
(2) (a) (iii) , (2) (b) (ii), (2) (c) , (3) (b)
(4) (b), (5) (b), and (6) set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(ii)   for the Special Account "B", Categories (1) (a),
(1)  (b) ,  (2)  (a)  (i) ,  (2)  (a)  (ii) ,  (2)  (b)  (i)
(3) (a), (4) (a), and (5) (a) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means in respect of
either of the Special Accounts, an amount equivalent.to $1,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited for either of the
Special Accounts to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or


﻿-26-
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; and
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify; and
(ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿-27-
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be;
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount;
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account; and
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


