Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 9572
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
DECORIS OIL PALM PROJECT
(LOAN 1765-LBR)
MAY 17, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIBERIA
DECORIS OIL PALM PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - United States Dollars
Weiights and Measures
i metric ton = .98 long ton
1 long ton - 2,240 lb = 1.016 metric ton
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
1 acre = 0.405 hectare
1 kilometer = 0.62 mile
1 mile = 1.609 kilometer
Abbreviations
ACDB        - Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
ADB         - African Development Bank
CDC         - Commonwealth Development Corporation
DOPC        - Decoris Oil Palm Company
EEC         - European Economic Community
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return
FB          - Fresh Fruit Bunches
FRR         - Financial Rate of Return
GOL         - Government of Liberia
IBRD        - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(World Bank)
IFC         - International Finance Corporation
IRHO        - Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
LPMC        - Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation
LPPC        - Liberia Palm Products Corporation
NPC         - National Palm Corporation
SCDEPALM - Societe pour le Developpement et lihexploitation du
Palmier a Huile
UDW         - Usine de Wecker
VDK         - Vanderkerchov
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FOROFCLUE LY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ohice di Di,eevG.s,
OStMic  W ivahatGwsm
MAy 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Liberia Decoris Oil
Plm Project (Loan 1765-LBR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Liberia Decoris Oil Palm Project (Loan 1765-LBR)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of %heir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorition.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
DEC0An IS OIL PALM PROJECT (LOAN 1765-LBR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .....................................             i
Evaluation Summary ...........       ................  iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIVE
Projel Identity .........................    1
Background ................                       1
Project Objectives and Description  ......... .   1
Project Design and Organization ........... .     2
Project Implementation    ............. .         3
Project Results  .............. .                 S
Project Sustainability  .............. .          6
Bank Performance  ............. .                 7
Borrower's Performance  .......... .              8
Consulting Services ............. .               9
Project Documentation and Data ........... .      9
PART II   BORROWE,R'S PERSPECTIVE  .......  11
PART m  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans/Credits  ...... .........  13
Project Timetable  .......................   14
Loan Disbursements        .....................  15
Project Implementation ...................  15
Project Costs and Financing  ...... .........  16
Project Results  .........................   16
Status of Covenants  .....................   17
Use of IBRD Resources ..       ................  17
MAP  IBRD No. 14275R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



j
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
DECORIS OIL PALM PROJECT (LOAN 1765-LBR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Decoris Oil Palm
Development Project in Liberia, for which Loan 1765-LBR in the amount of US$12.0
million was approved on October 30, 1979. The project was co-financed by the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), which provided a loan equivalent to
US$15.0 million; by the African Development Bank (ADB) which provided a loan
equivalent to US$8.0 million; and by the European Economic Community (EEC) which
provided a Special Action Credit equi- alent to US$2.0 million. The loan was closed on
schedule on December 31, 1987. An amount of US$7.4 million (62% of the loan)
remained undisbursed at the time of loan closing and was cancelled with effect from the
same date. The last disbursement was made on July 23, 1987.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III) was prepared
by the Agriculture Operations Division (AF4AG) in the Western Africa Department of
the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower was not sent Parts I and m, nor could they
provide Part II because the Government collapsed as a result of the ongoing civil war.
Preparation of this PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal
Bank memoranda.



iii
PR     Cr COMPLETION REPORT
LIBERIA
DECIS OIL PALM PRQT!ECr (LOAN 1765-LBR)
EVALUATION SIJMMARY
Introduction
1. Liberia has a dualistic economy. Its agricultural economy coexists with an enclave
sector which is export-oriented and produces besides iron ore, rubber and forest products.
The enclave sector provides about 70% of export earnings, generates about 25% of GDP
and about 15% of all government revenues. Total population is about 1.7 million. About
60% of the population is dassified as agricultural households. Soils are generally fertile
and the climate is suitable for a variety of field and tree crops. With the decline in
demand for iron ore which was a dominant prod-:ct for export earnings government began
to make serious efforts to diversify the etnomy and emphasize development of its export
oriented tree crop production. However, with the collapse of the government and the
continuing civil war situation is likely to have serious impact on the tree crop sector.
Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to help the Government to diversify, strengthen and
widen the base of Liberia's economy. At the same time, it was to increase the export
potential of the country and income earning capacity of smallholders. The project was
expected to lead to an additional annual production of 24,000 tons of palm oil and 4,300
tons of palm kerneL About US$11 million in net foreign exchange was expected to be
realized per year from the export of palm oil. Permanent employment was to be provided
for about 1,000 people in the Decoris area, and cash incomes of 1,000 smallholder farm
families were expected to increase from US$100 to US$950 a year at full development.
Roads and bridges under the project were to provide about 30,000 people in the nearby
villages access to health, educational and market facilities. The project design was
consistent with the Government's and the Bank's balanced approach to Liberia's
diversification needs and with its agricultural development strategy.
Implementation Experience
3.    At the beginning, the Government delayed establishing the Decoris Oil Palm
Company's (DOPC) Board and its by-laws, acquiring land for the nucleus estate, making
compensation payments to the settlers and initiating the roads and port components.
Field progress (plantation & nursery) was satisfactory up to about early 1982.
Subsequently, a variety of factors including inadequate and irregular Government
budgetary contributions and slow progress of the roads/bridges component hindered
implementation of both the estate and smallholder plantations. The smallholders lacked
self-reliance and the farmgate price provided them no incentive to improve their farm



iv
practices. This led to a serious time lag in execution of the smallholder plantation
component and produced an indifferent quality of the fruit. The estate part was also well
behind schedule, though better managed agronomically. The procurement of the oil mill
was greatly delayed due to disagreement between the Government and the Bank and
amongst the different Government ministries. A small interim mill was established in 1986
but due to shottfalls in production, and inadequate level of prices offered to the farmers,
even this mill could not obtain adequate raw materials for full production. Overall, the
expatriate project management and the counterpart manager performed reasonably well,
but other local staff were inadequately trained. Project implementation suffered
chronically from shortage of funds particularly in the later years, due to inadequate and
irregular amount of Government contributions and frequent/prolonged suspension of
extrnal donor disbursements. The Bank failed to advance loan funds through a special
account perhaps due to concern about Liberian handling of such accounts. At the project
appraisal stage, the Bank had failed to fully anticipate t K - risks facing the project and the
international palm oil price movements. Consequently, it failed to design the project on a
more modest scale for a first stage development consistent with local financial capacity and
perhaps concentrating only on estate plantation with a smaller mill.
Results
4.    Project objectives were not realized. The project's viability was questioned even at
the appraisal stage. Its relatively marginal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was known
to be contingent upon a timely project execution. Actually, the estate plantings took
seven years instead of four and the area planted was 88% of the appraisal estimate. The
smallholder plantings were also delayed and reached less than 60%o of the appraisal target.
Overall, nucleus estate and smallholder plantings were 5,882 ha against the estimated
7,500 ha (78% of SAR target). Instead of an annual income estimated at $3 million in the
last 2 years of the project, actual income reached less than half a million. A June, 1986
Bank million estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at 9.5%. Due to serious
financial shortfalls in later years, the project was grinding to a halt in the latter half of
1985, seriously compromising its future by failing to maintain planted trees and the
interest of the smallholders through an adequate buying price of ffb. The large mill was
not constructed and the road and storage tanks remained in abeyance. The project
maintained a low profile in the final years (1986-S7) with little skeleton maintenance
taking place. Meanwhile, several efforts to rescue the project were unsuccessfuL Even if
a restructured project could have been completed in two additiona; years, its economic
rate of return would have been much less than the 12% estimated at appraisa and might
have been negatve.
Sustainability
5.    The project as originally designed and approved by the Bank and other donors
could not be sustained. With about US$22 million already invested and financial and
other difficulties bringing the project to near collapse, efforts were made by DOPC with
the Government's and the Bank's assistance to devise a restructured project for
completion. Attempts to privatize DOPC by attracting an international company with
experience in palm oil plantation and marketing failed in the prevailing economic
circumstances of the country and low palm oil prices in the world market. Another



v
altemative considered included financing by a local bank-Agricultural and Cooperative
Development Bank (ACDB)-and constructing the mill Li two stages. Tsis also did not
materialize by the time the Bank loan was closed in December, 1987. Even with a rescue
package and modifications to the project, it would probably not have been sustainable.
Because of the time lag (9 years instead of 4), reduced area of oil palm and low level of
oil prices, only a very low rate of economic return could be expected.
6.    Fidinp and Lessons Learned
(a)   Sound agronomic conditions do not necessarily ensure success of an
agricultural project; appropriate pricing and marketing arrangements are
also essential.
(b)   SmallJholder investment is socially desirable but fraught with risks,
particularly if the farmers lacked motivation, investments have a long
gestation period and incentive prices offered are inadequate.
(c)   A project with a modest but successful beginning has a better prospect in
the long-run, than one with an ambitious beginning which raises the risks.
(d)   Project investments inevitably require external as weHl as Government and
other local contnbutions. Without assurance of counterpart funding and its
timely release, a project is doomed from the start to falter and fail.
(e)   Expatriate project management firms should be expected not only to
provide good managers and field staff but also sufficient back-up support
from their headquarters, particularly in areas where their field staff are
found to be weak and in technical matters beyond their (field staft)
competence.
(f)   It is a matter of judgement whether to scuttle a project and its investments
mid-stream or to rescue it. Sustaining a non-sustainable project on grounds
of sunk costs cannot be beneficial for any country.



I
PROJECT' REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
PART I
Project Identit
Project Name: Decoris Oil Palm Project
Loan No.:   1765-LBR
RVP Unit:   Africa
Country:     Liberia
Sector:      Agriculture
Sub-Sector:  Tree crop-Estate & Smallholder
Background
1.    The growth of Liberia's economy remained heavily dependent on the performance
of the enclave sectors consisting of iron ore mines, rubber plantations, and forestry
concessions. Another dimension of structural imbalance was the disparity between
traditional agriculture and the (monetized) modern sector. The Government's Four-Year
Development Plan (1976-1980) identiried the basic long-term objectives as diversification
of production, dispersion of sustainable socio-economic activities throughout the country,
,preater involveMLnt of Liberians in development activities, and equitable distribution of
the benefits of economic growth. In line with these obje..tives, the Government attached
high priority to agriculture and rural development. In this sector, the Government's
objectives were to diversify and modernize agricultural production, increase productivity,
improve associated rural economic activities such as marketing and processing, and provide
social and other basic infrastructure.
2.    The strategy for agricultural development involved: (i) establishment of larger
industrial estates with associated smallholder participation for oil palm, coconuts and
sugarcane run by public sector corporations; (ii) encouragement of smailholder rubber,
coffee and cocoa production; and (fii) implementation of integrated agricultural
development projects to raise income and living conditions of traditional farmers. In this
context the Government recognized that larger-scale tree-crop estates could make an
important contribution to expansion of exports and Government revenues. The Decoris
Oil Palm Project which is being reviewed here and which included a nucleus estate and a
smallholder component was a good example of this strategy.
3.    The Bank supported the Government's objectives and provided assistance to help
in broadening the economic base and in overcoming infrastructural constraints to growth.
In line with the priorities in the Ciovernment's Plan, increasing emphasis was given by the
Bank to agricultural and rural development projects. Bank financing included two
agricultural projects involving subsistence farmers, a rubber apd a forestry project.
Project Objectives and Description
4.    The project was intended to hel'p the Government in its efforts to expand and
diversify the country's economy and export base with a view to reducing heavy dependence



2
on iron ore. The project was to provide permanent employment for about 1,000 persons
and directly increase the income levels of about 1,000 smallholder farm families through
the development of 7,500 ha of high yielding oil palm on a nucleus estate and associated
smallholder farms. The project would also help strengthen the institutional capability of
the country through provisions for staff training and an organizational studY to determine
a suitable institutional arrangement for the longer term development of the oil palm sub-
sector.
5.    The project was located in Maryland County where the ecological conditions were
considered suitable for oil palm cultivation. The project was to be carried out by the
specially established Decoris Oil Palm Company (DOPC) for implementation over a 7-year
period (1980-1987). It included: establishing and operating a 5,000 ha nucleus estate,
providing extension services and credit facilities to develop 2,500 ha of smallholder farms,
training DOPC staff and smallholder both on-the-job and abroad, constructing an oil mill
with a processing capacity of 30 tons of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) per hour, establishing a
fruit collection system, constructing main access and feeder roads and tracks, constructing
and installing storage and port facilities, and providing technical assistance and consultant
services.
Project Design and Organization
6.    The project was the result of a practical and most interesting form of regional
cooperation in West Africa. It was prepared by SODEPAIM, an Ivory Cost corporation
and tested seeds were to be imported from Ivory Coast. The project aimed at the creation
of an agro-industrial complex for the production of palm oil. Project design was
technically sound, and the establishment of a separate (autonomous) company with an
experienced expatriate team for management and operation of the complex during the
implementation period of the project was well thought-out. Provision was made for
gradual Liberianisation through on-the-job training and visits abroad. The nucleus estate
idea, both for providing extension, collection and processing services to the smallholder
production and for proiding a minimum assured quantity to the oil mill was essential. In
view of the inaccessibility of the project area which was dissected by a network of rivers
and creeks, provision for roads, tracks, culverts and bridges in the project was practicaL
Another item in the project design which was often absent from such projects in Liberia
was the inclusion of a fruit collection system to service both the nucleus estate and
smallholder plantations. In view of the distance from Monrovia (the capital) and the need
to export at reasonable cost abroad, the project correctly provided for the construction of
storages and port facilities at Harper. Since there was no oil crushing facility in the area,
a 30 ton/hour mill was provided. The size of this mill, and the expected yield from the
palm trees on which it was '- ed was perhaps too optimistic. The appraisal mission failed
to make allowances for the poor agricultural husbandry of the farme' in LAberia,
particularly in the subsistence sector. Due to delays in procurement decisions, this large
mill was never established. Instead a smaller mill with 1.5 ton/heur crushing capacity was
procured in consonance with the reduced acreage and yield. Towards the end, when
discussions on a project rescue operation were conducted (1986-87), consideration was
being given to a two stage large mill, with one line of 10 ton/hour, to be followed later at
full plantation development of a second 10 ton/lour capacity.



3
7.    During project preparation, the issues that required particuiar attention of the
Bank and the Government were the need for establishing a new ent.ty, the Decoris Oil
Palm Company (DOPC) for the project, the mix and phasing of the outgrower and estate
components, compensation payments to the settlers mechanical versus hand clearing of
forcsts, and the type and extent of expatriate management assistance for the project. The
Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC) and the Liberian Palm Products
Corporation (LPPC) were the two public institutions then involved in the oil palm
development in the country. These institutions suftered from inadequate management and
lack of cxperienced technical and accounting systems. Because of these weaknesses, and
in spite of the concern expressed by the Government about a plethora of institutions ia
the samc sub-sector the Bank pushed for setting up a separate autonomous entity, the
DOPC. At the same time, provision was made under the project for a study to determine
the most suitable framework for the development of the sub-sector. DOPC acquitted
itself well and the project would have failed to make whatever progress was actually made
had the Bank not insisted on its creation.
&     In retrospect, in spite of the generally satisfactory design of the project it should
he mentioned that the appraisal mission did not adequately address the isolated nature of
the project area which lacked basic infrastructure. Also it failed to realize that the
subsistence farmers from whom a lot was expected in the project lacked the minimum
enterprise necessary for the project's success. Since it takes many years (7-8) for the palm
trees to provide substantive yields, it is difficult in any case to motivate the farmers who
very often are not interested in long-term investments. The appraisal mission had,
however, quite imaginatively provided incentives through free rice and modest cash
allowances to the farmers and it worked to some extent. Concerning the port facilities
and size of the oil mill, project design could have been better. The Bank appraisal
mission's estimates of transport costs and variation in palm oil prices (both local and
international) were too optimistic. Eventual larger drops in international prices were not
anticipated by the mission. The inclusion of the roads and provision for their design by
consultants was a plus point in the project. However, later agreement by the Bank to
leave this matter in the hands of :he Public Works Ministry caused substantial delays in
the planning and execution of this component.
Project Implementation
9.    While it was agreed with the Government that DOPC will be organized along
sound commercial lines, there were considerable delays in doing so. Some delay can be
attributed tc the change in Government that took place in April 1980. However, the
Government's earlier reluctance to set up a new entity for the project may have been
reflected in its procrastination in setting up DOPC's Board and by-laws. On the ground of
consolidation of all activities in the sub-sector, the Government in later years decided to
set up a National Palm Corporation (NPC) and attempted to do away witb the
autonomous nature of DOPC and its operations. However, when concern was expressed
by the Bank and attention was drawn to the Government's obligations under the Loan
Agreement, DOPC was allowed to function as before.
10.   At appraisal project costs were estimated at US$48.8 million with the Bank
financing 25% of the costs. In early 1987, the Bank supervision mission estimated the cost
is likely to be about US$43.4 million (89% of SAR). However, the performance is not



4
balanced since this expected reduction in costs was due to lag in project implementation
(9 years instead of 4), reduced plantings and building of palm oil mill of lesser capacity
than anticipated at appraisal.
11.   Implementation of the nucleus estate and smallholder plantation had varying
degrees of success. The estate plantings were carried out in seven years, instead of the
four recommended by the Appraisal Report. These plantings reached 4,412 ha in 1986/87,
as compared to 5,000 ha estimated at appraisal, or an implementation rate of 88%.
Smallholder plantings also lagged in time, reaching a total of 1,470 ha, as compared to the
appraisal estimates of 2,500 ha or less that 60%. Agronomically the plantation work in
the estate was well done, while that in the smallholder farms left much to be desired.
Farmers who expected everything to be done by the project authorities, poorly maintained
their fields with consequent deterioration in yields. Due to financial difficulties, the
project was unable to pay a remunerative price to smallholders who had therefore no
incentive to improve their farming practices. The project management introduced
inspections and tied the issue of free rice and cash grant to better weeding and
maintenance. This had the desired effect on some farmers. The farmgate price for
smallholders was also critical for ensuring adequate supply of fruits to even the small mill
commissioned in 1986. A supervision mission in February, 1987 reported that the price
which was being paid to the farmers was 5 cents per bunch, about 20%1o to 33% of what he
should have received based on the prevailing sales price of palm oil in the local market of
US$450/500 per ton. For the farmers, crushing the fruit artisanally, and selling the oil to
neighbors brought better returns.
12.   The procurement of the. large mill was inordinately delayed due to bid evaluation
and award problems which took a disproportionate amount of DOPC's, the Government's
and the Bank's time. Meanwhile, in order to process available fruits and generate some
income, as mentioned already a smaller mill was set up. The delay in the procurement of
the larger mill was at least partly due to unclear advice given by the, Bank. In the
beginning, the Bank left the decision concerning eligibility of UDW bid (whose tender was
found unsealed) for bid evaluation at the discretion of DOPC. DOPC evaluated UDW
bid with other bids and found it to be the lowest evaluated bidder. However, on the
ground that VDK bid which was the second lowest and which according to DOPC had
better technology and more experience, DOPC accepted VDK offer, though the price was
US$1 million higher than UDW. The Bank then rightly took the position that the UDW
bid could have been rejected at bid opening on technical grounds, but once it was
accepted for evaluation, it must be awarded the mill contract if its bid was the lowest.
The Government took advantage of the lack of clarity in the earlier Bank advice; there
was also considerable disagreement between the various ministers. In the end, after a
laps_ of about 2 years, the contract was awarded to UDW but the large mill was never
constructed. By that time, the financial condition of the Government and DOPC had
become weak (Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and Bank loans were
under suspension for some time as a consequence of debt service problems). Also due to
the lack of progress in plantation and its poor care, and lower international palm oil
prices, a large mill at that time was hardly justified. On hindsight, it appears that the mill
size was not correctly iesigned by the appraisal mission. The procurement delays,
however, did not make much difference to the ultimate failure of the project, since other
reasons (including financial constraints and poor farmer response) did not allow sufficient
fruits to be made available for crushing even by a much smaller mill.



5
13.   Implementation of the project suffered chronically from shortage of funds. The
Government's contributions were falling short of requirements and were irregular in
timing. This was at east partly due to the Government's own financial difficulties and the
strong dollar value at the time. Except for the CDC which was advancing funds, donor
contributions were (until suspended in the later years 1985M7) provided on a
reimbursement basis only. The Bank considered establishing a Revolving Fund and
discussed it with the Government, but this procedure was never used in the project for the
Bank LAn Tis was certainly a serious deficiency in the Bank's supervision of the
project. In liberian conditions, this would have made a lot of difference in the execution
of the project, particularly in its agricultural component, where the staff and laborers
could not be paid timely, some had to be laid off and weeding and maintenance suffered.
14.   The project management, staffed at the higher level by a Malaysian firm,
performed reasonably welL After the fist project manager resigned quite early in the
project, the second project manager, who remained the General Manager for the rest of
the time, did well as an estate manager. He was strong on the plantation side but weak
on the financial side. The first financial controller was not satisfactory and left the job for
health reasons. The successor was not competent either. The financial management of
this troubled project was consequently very poor. The supervision missions were critical of
the Malaysian r,roject management firm, not giving enough support to the Decoris staff in
spite of direct request for assistance. A mission in December 1984 mentioned the mini-
mill evaluation as a case in point. According to this mission, the Decoris staff who seemed
quite capable of planting oil palm and managing staff, seemed completely at sea on
contractin& procurement and marketing. The Government was also unhappy with the
Malaysian firm's back-up support, and during negotiations for the second term it was able
to reduce the fees.
Project Results
15. One of the few things during project execution which was correctly foreseen by the
appraisal mission was the serious implication of any lag in execution of the project's
viability. The slow implementation of estate plantings had a negative influence on the
project's cash flow. If plantings were completed as estimated at appraisal and the estate's
mill had been erected, income from the sales of palm oil in project years 6 and 7
(1985/87) would have reached an estimated US$3 million. Actual income reached less
than half a million. On the other hand, while field establishment costs remained within
appraisal estimates, administrative and general expenses were higher, resulting in an
additional strain to the cash flow. Decoris had to rely more and more on Government's
fund transfers which were always insufficient. For example in 1986/87, on a budget of
over US$3 million, the Government promised US$60,000 per month, and even this
amount was not regularly paid. As a result of the cash flow constraints, the project was
unable to offer an attractive price to smallholders for their fruit, unable to hire sufficient
harvesters for its mature plantings, and unable to extend proper maintenance to all
plantings. As reported by the project manager in December, 1986, the cumulative effect
of all these deficiencies was that the project was able to collect enough fruit to sustain
only one shift of the small mill in operation. Even the local demand for palm oil
estimated at between 125 to 165 tons per month could not be satisfied fully. By
December, 1986, an investment totalling over US$20 million had been made and was at
stake. A February, 1987 supervision mission came to the sad conclusion that the project



6
was in serious jeopardy that even if the project survived, it was compromising its future by
not maintaining properly planted trees (mature and immature) and by antagonizing
smallholders by its unattractive buying price.
16.   The financial situation of the project started to deteriorate very badly from 1985.
A Government contribution amounting to only US$50,000 was made in July 1985 after a
long lapse. The only available funds in the first half of 1986 were the EEC grants for
roads and small mill construction, and some draw-downs from the Bank and CDC as and
when suspension of disbursement was not in force. A Bank supervision mission at end -
June 1986 found DOPC cash balance to be about US$90,000 which was only sufficient to
maintain the operation on a very low profile of salary and wages for one more month.
Only minimum maintenance was carried out at the time. The project's heavy equipment
could not be operated due to shortage of spare parts and fuel. Shortage of funds resulted!
in suspension of land clearing and most of the contract work, and the number of workers
had to be reduced. The small mill had a capacity of almost 1200 ton oil per annum but
due to lack of storage capacity, appropriate port facilities,and very limited domestic
market, only 40% of mill capacity could be exploited and even the sale of this limited
quantity was not secured. The June 1986 Bank mission estimated the financial rate of
return (FRR) at 11.3% and the economic rate of return (ERR) at 9.5%. In February,
1987 a Bank mission reported that the project, which continued to suffer financially, was
undertaking no new development and was on a skeleton maintenance regime.
C-onstruction of roads, storage tanks and the large mill was also in abeyance. The small
mill was producing only on one shift basis, and some sales were being made domestically,
generating modest income. The management and the staff were demoralized and their
focus, as well as that of the Bank staff, was on designing a feasible rescue package for the
project.
Project Sustainability
17.   By 1986, with the financial difficulties, lag in plantation development and
procurement delays for the large mill, the project was grinding to a halt. It was also
evident that unless the project and its finances and management were restructared the
project was not sustainable. With about US$22 million already invested by DOPC and
debt-service obligations imposing additional burden, DOPC, with the assistance of the
Bank staff, attempted to devise altemative packages for project completion and future
sustainability. This would have been achieved more easily if DOPC could be privatized
and its management and operations were taken over by an experienced private
(international) company. The Government enacted the necessary laws to facilitate
privatization. A few international companies were approached and assistance by IFC was
explored, but perception of the political and economic instability of Liberia at the time
was discouraging to the private sector. With low intemational palm oil prices, high cost of
DOPC production and insecurity about the Government allowing possible oil export
revenues to be put in escrow abroad for project expenses and profit repatriation, it was
not surprising that there were no takers. The other alternative explored by DOPC and
the Bank staff was the scaling down of the project, bringing all plantation areas to full
production, constructing a 20 ton/hour mill in two stages, guaranteed provision of about
US$6 million by the Liberian Agricultural Credit and Development Bank (ACDB) to meet
the project's cash flow requirements and possible conversion by the Government of part of
the loans as equity.



7
18    It would be worth considering the financial implications and economic benefits of
the project rescue and sustenance plan which did not materialize. The total required
investment in the project was estimated by a Bank mission in February, 1987 to be
US$43A million (compared with the appraisal estimate of US$48 million) with only about
78% of the 7500 ha. planted. The investments were to be completed in two years. In
1989/90 when the larger mill was to go into production, the expected income for that year
was estimated at about US$3.2 million growing to US$10.9 million in the peak year
1995J96. The ERR was expected to be considerably less than 12% estimated at appraisal
and could even be negative. The reasons for the above were the lag in implementation (9
years instead of 4 years), the reduced area of oil palm, and the then prevailing low level of
oil prices on the world market. Since all Bank operations in the country remained
suspended since then and no Project Completion Mission visited Liberia for this project, it
was not possible to know the final fate of the project. It is unlikely that the project had a
beneficial economic impact for the country.
Bank Performance
19.   The main strengths of the Bank's performance on this project were its insistence
during both appraisal and project execution stages on fair compensation for the settlers
displaced by the project and being pragmatic about the land clearance issue. The Bank's
anxiety about adequate compensation and alternative land for rehabilitation of the
displaced people reflected its social concerns while pursuing economic goals. The
mechanical clearing of land was a practical measure pursu¶d by the Bank The Liberian
argument for labor-intensive hand clearing was based on promotion of farmers'
involvement and interest. The Bank, however, demonstrated that mechanical clearance
was cost-effective and it was possible to prepare the fields more expeditiously to
encourage the smallholders to take up improved farm practices therein. The Bank staff
performance was exemplary in the later years in diagnosing the project's problems and
working closely with the project management to devise remedies. The Bank was most
helpful in exploring various avenues (approaching IFC, private parties abroad and
examining financing packages and cash flow) for rescuing the project from total collapse.
The Bank also showed realism and flexibility in readjusting the financing categories and
disbursement percentages (including financing part of the local expenditures) in light of
the project's implementation experience.
20.   The main weakness of the Bank was the inability of its appraisal mission to design
the project for development in stages. A more modest beginning could have been
planned, perhaps concentrating first on an estate plantation development with a smaller
and cheaper oil mill. As already mentioned some of the mission's basic assumptions
concerning project implementation speed, mill size, oil prices and the Government's
financial capacity were far out of line with the Liberian realities. The Bank staff were
cognizant of the generally adverse situation and projected a seven year project execution
period. They, however, failed to provide anything more than the usual five year grace
period for the repayment of the Bank's loan which compounded the financial difficulties
of the project. The Bank also failed to introduce the Revolving Fund (Special Account)
procedure to facilitate quicker disbursement of its loan funds. In the face of budgetary
and cash flow problems in many other countries at that time, the Bank had routinely set
up special accounts to relieve fund constraints. In this project also the Bank staff
considered this possibility but never actually established it. Discussions with Bank staff



8
concerned with the project at the time indicate that the Bank's experience with Special
Accounts in other Liberian projects was unsatisfactory and therefore the Bank was not too
enthusiastic about setting up such an account for the Decoris project. Usual
reimbursement procedures continued throughout the execution period, placing additional
financial strain on the project. The Bank's handling of the procurement matter for the
large mill was a definite weakness of its performance. As already mentioned (para 11), it
created confusion about the Bank's real intentions and contributed to the prolonged
debate on bid acceptance and evaluation decisions. While the Bank's supervision missions
performed their tasks in a professional manner, one gets the impression that perhaps a
little more supervising and a more active follow-up and intervention at the higher levels of
the Government (for fund release, procurement decisions, etc.) were calied for in the
troubled circumstances of this project.
Borrower's Performance
21.   The main strength of the Borrower's performance on this project was that it was
quite flexible on many issues and was prepared to change its position even after holding it
for a long period. For example, during project appraisal, it wanted one of the existing
public corporations in the oil palm sector to undertake the project. The Borrower was,
however, persuaded by the Bank to not only have a new entity for the project (DOPC),
but also to incorporate it under the Companies' Act as an autonomous company. It made
also considerable equity investments in the new company by utilizing part of the proceeds
of the external loans, including that of the Bank. Towards the end, when the project was
having serious financial troubles, the Government was willing to introduce a private
partner by selling part of its own equity in the company and letting it also manage/operate
the company. At the same time, it was also willing to continue making external loan
proceeds guaranteed by it to be utilized for required further investments by DOPC. In
the case of the large oil mill in the procurement problem, the Government at very high
levels (including the President) ultimately agreed to the Bank's recommendation to award
the contract to UDW in spite of the fact that DOPC Board with the President's blessings
had on three separate occasions approved the award to the other bidder (VDK). Apart
from the fear of litigation and losing Bank financing for the item, the Government in its
correspondence had acknowledged that any other action would have tarnished its integrity
and reputation abroad. The Government's final decision was belated but responsible. In
the matter of the project management firm and the expatriate staff, the Government's
handling was helpful but firm. It expressed its unhappiness in some respects with the
project management firm's back-up performance, and (with Bank staff moral support)
negotiated a more favorable contract at the time of renewal after the first four-year
period.
22.   The Govefnment, however, was not fully committed to the project and the
Maryland County .n which it was located. It was very far from the Capital and not easily
accessible, the underdeveloped county being used primarily as a pleasure/hunting ground
for the privileged in Liberia. The lack of commitment was demonstrated by the
Government's most inadequate and irregular contributions to the project. In 1983-84, only
24% of the Government's share of US$3 million was actually released. By 1986, the year
during which the project was planned to be physically completed, the Government had
paid only US$4 million out of US$11.8 million promised by it. It should be noted that the
coup of 1980 and the financial difficulties in the early eighties made it extremely difficult
for the Government to fulfill its obligations to the project. Even when funds were



9
available, dollar currency notes were not to be found and the supervision staff reported
nearly heroic attempts by the project manager carrying suitcases full of newly minted
Liberian dollar coins from Monrovia by air to pay project staff. The Government delayed
taking necessary measures for early start-up of the project. Land clearance and issue of
titles/certificates for the land were delayed. Delays in properly setting up DOPC and in
facilitat.ng commencement of the port, storage and the road components can also be
attributed to the weaknesses in the Borrower's performance. The inordinate delay in
taking a final decision for the mill procurement has already been mentioned. In short,
the Government failed to take resolute actions to expedite the proixct's execution which
might possibly have given the project some chance to succeed and survive.
Consulting Services
23.   Project consultants provided valuable assistance to the project management in
project implementation including training of local staff. A good relationship existed
between the consultants, the project management and the Borrowers.
Project Documentation and Data
24.   The documentation for the project was adequate. The Loan Agreement was quite
adequate for achieving project objectives. The appraisal report provided a useful
framework for review of project implementation.



11
PART II
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower could not provide Part II due to the ongoing civil war and the
collapse of the Government.



13
LIBERI
DECORIS OILPALM PROJiEC (LOAN 1765-LBR)
PARTIH
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank/lDA
Loans/rdt
Year of
Loan/Credit Title         Puro                              Approval  Status
A.  Cr. 306-LBR. Lberia       To assist the Government to        1972      Completed
Agricultural Development    determine means of improving the
and Technical Assistance  Liberian-owned rubber industry in the
Project.                  context of implementing its plans for
agricultural development.
B.   La. 1544-LBR/Cr. 786-LBR. To improve productivity and income    1978   Completed
Rubber Development        cf small and medium farmers and to
Project                   increase the country's export earnings.



14
2     proect Timetable
Date                  Date
Planned                 Actual
Identification                    3 75                   3175
Preparation                       N/A                      76
Appraial mission                  1/79                   1/79
Loan Negotiations                 8179                   8/79
Board Approval                   1079                  10/79
Loan Signature                   12/79                  12/79
Loan Effectiveness                2/81                   2/81
Loan losing                      12V87                  12/87



15
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Appraised                                    % Actual/
FY                 Estimate            Actual             Appraisal Estimate
81                      600                544                     91
82                     1400               1307                     93
83                     2800               1738                     62
84                     4900               1813                     37
85                     8000               2372                     39
86                    10600               3948                     3.
87                    12000               4501                     37
88                                        4550                     38
Date of Final Disbursement: July 23, 1987.
Disbursement date for corinanciers not available.
4.    Project Implementation:
Appraisal                         % Actual
Estimate          Actual         Appraisal
-----------hectares----
Nucleus Estates (oilpalm)      5000             4412               88
Smallholders (oilpalm)         2500             1470               60
TOTAL                      7500             5882               78
Number of Smallholders         1000              588               59
Production of FFB
1986                     14,000 tons          10,000  jJ           71
1993                    109,000 tons          62,000  1/           57
1/ Estimated



16
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appraisal                        % Actual/
Estimate          Actual         Appraisal
----------US$ million ----------
Field Establishment
Nucleus                     4.4             NA              NA
Smallholders                1.4
Oil Mill                       13.0
Road Construction               3.1
Buildings and Houses            2.9
Vehicle and Equipment           1.7
Staff Salaries and
Recurrent Costs             5.4
Base Cost                      33.4
Contingencies                  15.5
Total Costs                    48.8             43.4  1/          89
i/ Estimated. Cost breakdown by components not available.
(from Form 590).
B. Proiect Financine
Planned (Ln. Agreement)           Final
---------- US$ million ------------------------
Bank/IDA                       '2.0           (25%)               4.6
CDC                            15.0           (31%)              NA
ADB                             8.0           (16%)              NA
EEC                             2.0            (4%)              NA
GOL                            11.8           (24%)              NA
48.8           100%
6.    Project Results
Data for assessing direct benefits and economic [ERR] and financial impact are not available and a
PCR mission has not visited the country because the government collapsed as a result of the ongoing civil war.



17
7. STAT1IS OF COVRNANTS: NA
&  [USUI OF IBRD RFSOURCFIS
A.   Staff Inputs:      1978      1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987  TOTAL
Preappraisal        1.4       9.2                 --                          --                                  10.6
Appraisal             -      73.7     11.0         -       --        --       -.                                  84.7
Negotations          --        --      3.3                      --            --        --
Supervision                            7.1       6.9      9.4      9.1       8.0      11.0      7.5       5.4     64.4
---- ----  ....  ----  ----     ----      .... .....    .....         .....     - --
1.4     82.9     21.4       6.9      9.4       9.1      8.0      11.0      7.5       5.4    163.0
B.Mission Data             Month/       No.        Days in         Specialization   lPerformance       Rating        Types of
Year      Persons       Field        Represented 1/       Status  2/     Trend V      Problems 4/
Identification
Preparation:             2t78            1           3                    c
lfR          1            5                    e
Appraisal:               I179            6          22                e,f,c,o
Supervision I            1179            1           2                    e                1            2
Supervision 11            6/80          2            2                   e,f               1            2
Supervision III        9-10/80          3            3                 e,c,o               1            2               0
Superv-sion lI            3/81           1           5                    b                1            2               0
Supervision V             6/81           1           3                    b                1            2               0
Supervision VI           11/81           1           3                    b                1            2               0
Supervision Vll           3/82          2           5.5                 b,c                2             1              0
Supervision VIII       9-10/82           1          10                    c                2             1            O,F
Supervision IX          2-3/83           1           3                    c                2             1            O,F
Supervision X           8-9/83           1           3                    d                2             1            O,F
Supervision XI          1-2/84          4            5                a,c,e,f              2             1            F.O
Supervision XII        9-10/84          2            5                   c,f               2             1            r;o
Supervision XIII        7-8/85           1           7                    f                3            2             F,O
Supervision XIV           4R86           1           6                    f                3            2             F,O
Supervision XV            6/86           1           3                    f                3            2             F,O
Supervision Xvl         1-2/87          3            5                 c,g,o               4            3             F,O
I/a = Division Chief; b = Deputy Division Chief; c   Agriculturalist; d = Credit; e = Economist; f = Financial Analyst; g   Operations Assistant;
o = Other
J I = No significant problem; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems; 4 = Major problems but the problems are not being adequately addressed.
3/1 - Improving, 2 = Stationary; 3 = Deteriorating
4/ F = Financial; 0 = Other



< ~,;5°° ^1ff l .-', (f
(D                !                   AND.COU
L  500A  h    a
%% (j'      ~Satokehn
i 2-5 `01'                          \MARYLAND    COU! 
20J'                           °--                ':      i ''
(*v~  NJwok -1                                90h  
-410   EGrw WiRvie>
*4s                                                   >    F5ht725ha
s.                20 4 Newake2
4-40'x
1 0050 h.
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~740 ha
I Bewahn         F
-In~~~~~~~~~                                               ~~~~~ I 25 hd 
-10~~~-~
IL   ~~~~~    2 ~~~19310 ha                            4
Wilsonville 
00 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~r.,-~----                                30h
I '-   Wisojivele ,,* iVA   ill
430,   ~~1 NGorowe/
90   ll     /i
20                                        30



