FILE COPY
Document of
The World Ban:ik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2628-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR AN
OIL PALM PROJECT
October 10, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  =  Lib. $1.00
The official monetary unit is the Liberian dollar, with par
value equal to that of the US dollar. Apart from the Liberian
dollar, the US dollar is a legal tender in Liberia.
GOVERNMENT OF LIBERIA - FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -  African Development Bank
CDC    -  Commonwealth Development Corporation
EEC    -  European Economic Community
LBDI   -  Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
DOPC   -  Decoris Oil Palm Company
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Program
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
LPMC   -  Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation
LPPC   -  Liberian Palm Products Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
OIL PALM PROJECT
LOAN, CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Liberia
Beneficiary:           Decoris Oil Palm Company (DOPC)
Amount:                Bank Loan of US$12.0 million equivalent; EEC Special
Action Credit of approximately US$2 million equivalent. 1/
Terms:                 Bank loan for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
7.95 percent interest per annum. EEC Special Action
Credit on standard IDA terms.
Relending Terms:       The Government would relend US$7.7 million of the
proceeds of the Bank loan to DOPC for 25 years,
including 8 years of grace at 10 percent interest and
invest US$4.0 million of the proceeds as equity in DOPC;
the remaining US$0.3 million would be retained by
Government for studies and strengthening Government's
monitoring and evaluation system. All the proceeds of
the EEC Credit would be invested by Government as equity
in DOPC. The foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan
would be borne by DOPC.
Project
Description:         The project would help expand and diversify the
country's export base, provide employment, increase
the income levels of rural families, and strengthen
the institutional capability of the country for the
development of the oil palm sub-sector. The project
would include: establishing and operating a 5,000 ha
nucleus estate, providing extension services and credit
facilities to develop 2,500 ha of smallholder farms,
training DOPC staff and smallholders, constructing an
oil mill, establishing a fruit collection system,
constructing roads, constructing and installing storage
and port facilities, and providing technical assistance
and consultant services. The project faces no unusual
risks, but the success of the institution building
program under the project would depend on the ability of
the Government and DOPC to recruit, train and retain
competent Liberians.
1/   The EEC Credit is calculated in a basket of currencies.  The dollar
equivalent is subject to fluctuation.
This docunmnt hus a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performafnc
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be dibcbsod without World Bank authorizion.



- ii. 
Estimated Cost:
In Million US$
Local      Foreign    Total
NUCLEUS ESTATE
Field Establishment                            2.3         2.1        4.4
Palm Oil Mill                                  4.7         8.3       13.0
Harper Port Oil Storage Station                0.4         1.0        1.4
Road Construction                              1.3         1.0        2.3
Buildings and Houses                           2.1         0.6        2.7
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture              0.3         1.3        1.6
Staff Salaries, Other Recurrent Costs          1.8         3.0        4.8
and Studies
Subtotal:                                   12.9        17.3       30.2
SMALLHOLDER
Field Establishment                            0.9         0.5        1.4
Road Construction                              0.8          --        0.8
Buildings and Houses                           0.1         0.1        0.2
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture               --         0.1        0.1
Staff Salaries and Other Recurrent Costs   0.4             0.3        0.7
Subtotal:                                    2.2         1.0        3.2
BASE COST                                       15.1        18.3       33.4
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                       1.2         1.4        2.6
Price                                          5.8         7.0       12.8
Subtotal:                                    7.0         8.4       15.4
PROJECT COST                                    22.1        26.7       48.8
Taxes                                          0.9         --         0.9
Project Costs Net of Taxes                    21.2        26.7       47.9



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Expenditures
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Government                         11.8         -         11.8
IBRD                                 -       12.0         12.0
ADB                                 1.7        6.3          8.0
CDC                                 6.6        8.4        15.0
EEC (Special Action Account)        2.0         -          2.0
Total                              22.1       26.7        48.8
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million)
Bank  FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85        FY86    FY87
Bank Loan
Annual                 600      800   1,400   2,200   3,000    2,600   1,400
Cumulative             600   1,400   2,800   5,000   8,000   10,600  12,000
EEC Special Action Credit
Annual                 700   1,300
Cumulative             700   2,000
Rate of Return:        12 percent.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 2526-LBR, dated September 26, 1979.
MAP:                   IBRD 14275






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA FOR AN OIL PALM PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$12.0 million and a proposed EEC Special Action
Credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine EEC Member States, for the
equivalent of about US$2.0 million 1/ to the Republic of Liberia to help
finance an oil palm project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, includ-
ing 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum. The Govern-
ment would relend US$7.7 million of the proceeds of the loan to the Decoris
Oil Palm Company (DOPC) for 25 years, including 8 years of grace alt 10 percent
interest and invest US$4.0 of the proceeds as equity in )OPC; the remaining
US$0.3 million would be retained by Government for studies and strengthening
the Government's monitoring and evaluation system. The EEC SpeciaL Action
Credit would be on standard IDA terms. All the proceeds of the EEC Credit
would be invested by Government as equity in DOPC.  The project would also be
co-financed by a loan of US$8.0 million from the African Development Bank
(ADB) and a loan of US$15.0 million from the Commonwealth Development Corpora-
tion (CDC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A basic economic mission visited Liberia in March 1973.  Its report
"Liberia: Growth with Development - A Basic Economic Report" (No. 426a-LBR
dated March 1, 1975), was distributed to the Executive Directors. An
economic report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Liberia"
(No. 1642a-LBR) dated February 28, 1978 has also been distributed to the
Executive Directors. An updating economic mission visited Liberia in May 1979
and its report will be circulated to the Executive Directors shortLy.
Structural Characteristics
3.         The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross
domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the
enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
1/   In accordance with the agreement between the EEC Member States and IDA
dated May 2, 1978, standard IDA terms will apply to the EEC Special
Action Credit except that a variety of EEC currencies will be used and
repaid in the amounts disbursed.



- 2 -
4.        Another dimension of structural imbalance is the disparity between
traditional agriculture and the (monetized) modern sector. Traditional agri-
culture has minimal inter-action with the rest of the economy; however, it
supports the majority of the population - as much as 60 percent - who live at
or near subsistence level. With a population of about 1.7 million, average
per capita GNTD in 1978 is estimated at US$460. While the enclave sector
yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared to US$780 for the rest of
the monetized economy, the great majority of the population who live in the
traditional non-monetized sector have a per capita income of about US4160 per
annum. To help redress these imbalances the Government is trying to increase
its earnings from the concessions and use the resources to diversify the
economy with increased participation by Liberians.
Development Plan
5.        The Governnent's Four-Year Development Plan, covering the period
July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1980, was prepared with the assistance of a planning
team financed jointly by the Bank, the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
the Government (Reference: President's Memorandum to the Executive Direc-
tors, No. R74-61 dated March 25, 1974). The Plan identifies the basic,
long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic development as: (a) diver-
sification of production; (b) dispersion of sustainable socio-economic
activities throughout the country; (c) greater involvement of Liberians in
development activities; and (d) equitable distribution of the benefits of
economic growth. The average annual growth of real GDP during the Plan
period was envisaged at around 6.8 percent. However, because of delays in
the implementation of expected investments in iron ore mining and slackening
in demand for the country's main exports, the recent Bank economic mission
has estimated that real growth during the four-year period is unlikely to
exceed 1-2 percent.
6.        The Government has already embarked on three important agricultural
development projects in the Bong, Lofa and Nimba counties which are being
assisted by the Bank Group, USAID and the German Government. Other projects
in forestry and rubber are under way which will lead to greater participation
of Liberians in the development of the country's principal agricultural
resources. At the same time, the Government's expanding water supply and
electric power utilities in both the urban and rural areas and to improve the
-oad network, the inadequacy of which presently constitutes a constraint to
growth. However, the shortage of trained manpower at all levels and the lack
of adequate domestic resources are major constraints to the Government's
efforts to develop and diversify the economy.
7.        Total development expenditure in the original plan was projected at
US$415 million, of which US$251 million would have been financed from foreign
sources and US$164 million domestically. The Plan was revised in early 1978
to take account of developments during the first two years. The revised
expenditure target was raised to $585 million to reflect increased costs and



- 3 -
to include additional projects. It is estimated that actual development
expenditures over the first three years of the Plan have been about: US$400
million, of which about 20 percent has gone to the productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing), about 39 percent to infrastructure, about 15
percent to social services and about 25 percent to general services and
miscellaneous projects. Total expenditure by the end of the Plan period is
unlikely to exceed US$520 million, one-fourth of this amount being allocated
to facilities and buildings for the OAU conference.
8.        The Government has started preparing a second development: plan
(1980-84). The objectives of the first plan are still relevant for Liberia
and in order to achieve greater progress towards these objectives, Goverrment
will need to pay particular attention to increasing domestic resources, to
giving greater priority to investments which increase the country's produc-
tive potential and raise incomes in the rural areas and to improved plan
implementation.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During 1973-75 Liberia, like most other developing countries, was
hit by higher import prices and international inflation. While strong world
demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore, brought large gains in export
prices in 1974, subsequent recession in the industrialized countries sig-
nificantly reduced the demand for the country's most important export
commodities -- iron ore, rubber and timber -- in the 1975-78 period. With
growth performance continuing to be largely a function of enclave activities,
growth of real GDP -- which averaged about 6.3 percent a year in the 1967-70
and 4.2 percent a year in 1970-74 period has slowed down significantly and is
estimated to be about 0.7 percent between 1974 and 1978.
10.       Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management, and public
sector resources did not come under undue pressure during the past decade.
A satisfactory growth in government revenues averaging about 13.5 percent
per year between 1970-75 enabled the Government to finance increasing expen-
ditures. Recurrent expenditures during this period grew by about 10 percent
while development expenditures increased nearly fourfold. However, public
sector finances have recently come under increased pressure which is likely
to continue over the medium term mainly because of an acceleration in the rate
of growth of government expenditures coupled with a more moderate rate of
growth in revenues. Since 1974, Government has been facing a growing budge-
tary deficit. The deficit in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but in 1979
it was estimated at US$122 million, or 64 percent of government revenues. In
March 1979, the Government concluded a standby arrangement with the! IMF in
the first credit tranche in an amount equivalent to SDR 9.25 million. The
supporting program included restraint in public expenditure and restrictive
credit expansion and external debt policies.
Balance of Payments
11.       During the 1970-74 period, merchandise exports grew by 14 percent
and imports by about 18 percent annually in current prices. Thereafter,
during 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international inflation, imports



-4-
rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual export growth.
Oil imports increased from US$15 million in 1973 to US$84 million in 1978.
Between 1975 and 1977 the decline in exports was partly offset by favorable
movement in the terms of trade but the trade surplus declined from US$110
million in 1974 to a deficit of $16 million in 1977, while the current account
deficit, reflecting substantial remittances of capital and other factor
income from enclave operations, increased to about US$100 million in 1978
as compared with US$30 million in 1974.  The rising current account deficits
were financed mostly by private capital transactions, but in the last two
years, official capital inflows have risen substantially.
Creditworthiness
12.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was esti-
mated at about US$341 million as of December 1978. The Bank Group share of
the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 17 percent
and is expected to increase to about 24 percent by 1984. As a proportion of
public debt servicing liability, the Bank Group share is expected to remain 14
percent over the same period. Debt service payments as a proportion of
exports of goods and non-factor services were estimated at about 6 percent in
1978 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7 percent for 1974 and 1972 respectively. Debt
service payments as a percentage of Government revenues (a more meaningful
indicator for Liberia which uses the US dollar as a medium of exchange) have
also declined from about 24 percent in 1972 and 21 percent in 1974 to 16.5
percent in 1978. A continuation of the recent low rate of growth in public
revenues and exports (7 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively) would
lead to an increase in Liberia's debt service ratios to about 27 percent of
public revenues and 12 percent of exports by 1983; while high, this debt
service burden would remain manageable. However, as explained below, there
should be an improvement in the country's economic prospects over the next
few years. The growth in export earnings should be higher than in the immedi-
ate past as a result of the recent strengthening in the demand for iron ore
and an increase in iron ore prices. Also the forecasts for natural rubber
prices indicate a consistently upward movement and Liberia may also expect
higher yields from the recently replanted acreage and new plantings of rubber.
Other on-going agriculture projects (particularly for coffee, cocoa, palm oil)
will help diversify the economy and should result in an acceleration in the
rate of growth of exports during the next three to four years. Public reve-
nues will benefit from these increased export earnings. At the same time, a
reduction in the size of the Government budget deficit, restraints on new
commercial borrowings, and increased mobilization of Government revenues, may
be expected as a result of policy measures being implemented in association
with the recent IMF Standby Arrangement. After a sharp increase in external
public debt during the last year, much of it in connection with the OAU
conference, government is expected to pursue a cautious policy over the next
few years with regard to contracting new short term external loans. Given
the country's improved export and public finance prospects, Liberia continues
to be credit-worthy for Bank lending combined with assistance from IDA.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1/
13.       The Bank has made 18 loans (including one Third Window loan) for
projects in Liberia totalling US$118.7 million; there have been 8 IDA credits
totalling US$44 million and one technical assistance grant of US$200,000
for development planning. IFC has made two equity investments totalling
US$550,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Development and
Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has been for roads, agriculture,
rural development, power, education, water supply, DFC and ports. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of August 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
14.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiatives in developing their own resources for the benefit
of their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a
broader distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the
Government in broadening the economic base and in overcoming infrastructural
constraints to growth; and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing devel-
opment resources from other external agencies. In furthering these objec-
tives particular attention is being paid to (a) the need to expand thbe
supply of trained manpower so as to relieve this constraint to development;
and (b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of the
public corporations in Liberia.
15.       In line with the priorities established in the Government's Four-
Year Development Plan, the Bank plans to give increasing emphasis in its
lending program over the next few years to agricultural and rural develop-
ment. The Bank Group is co-financing with USAID two agricultural projects
currently under implementation in Bong and Lofa Counties. These pro;jects are
designed to assist subsistence farmers to diversify their production base and
to increase their productivity and income through the provision of support
services and infrastructures and to help diversify the country's export and
revenue base. The rubber project, which is being implemented with Bank Group
and CDC financing, would lead to expanded exports, increased productLvity and
incomes for small and medium size farmers through strengthening credit and
extension services and promotion of greater Liberian participation in the
development of this subsector.  The forestry project would strengthen the
Government's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program and
help Liberia to better manage and exploit its forestry resources. The pro-
posed oil palm project would help expand and diversify the country's export
and revenue base, provide employment, increase the income levels of rural
families, and strengthen the institutional capability of the country for oil
palm development. Further Bank Group assistance to the sector being con-
sidered would include a rural development project in the southeastern region
of Liberia which would help increase agricultural production, improve physical
and social infrastructure in selected low income rural areas and strengthen
the local capability for planning and implementation of rural development
projects.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for Feeder Roads
Project dated April 4, 1979 (Report No. P-2462-LBR).



- 6 -
16.       In infrastructure, a water supply project was approved in December
1978 which is designed to help rehabilitate and expand the Monrovia water
supply system, extend water distribution to lower income groups in the metro-
politan areas, and strengthen the management, staffing, and finances of
the Liberian Water and Sewer Corporation. The feeder roads project, approved
in February 1979, is designed to open up the agricultural hinterland of
Liberia in support of the ongoing and proposed agricultural and rural de-
velopment programs. A fifth highways project is under preparation to con-
struct and improve sections of main roads in the agricultural interio    In
the power sector, a fourth power project was approved in June 1978 which
would expand the Liberia Electricity Corporation's thermal power generating
facilities to meet demand until a new hydro-electricity generating facility
has been constructed and made operational around 1985. The project also
includes management and training assistance to LEC and service connections to
about 5,000 urban poor households in Monrovia.
17.       In the social sectors, three education projects have been financed
by the Bank Group. The first two projects aimed at improving secondary
education, education planning and management, as well as extending the educa-
tional system to rural areas through the provision of secondary schools and
100 village community schools. The third project emphasizes vocational and
technical training. The Bank has recently undertaken a study of the country's
education, training and manpower planning needs and ways in which to augment
the supply of trained manpower; the results of the study will form the basis
for preparing a fourth education project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Characteristics
18.       Agriculture is the second largest productive sector after mining
in Liberia's economy accounting for 25 percent of GDP and 23 percent of
export earnings. The rate of growth of agricultural output is estimated at
around 5 percent per annum for the period 1976-80, consistently above the rate
of growth for the economy as a whole. About 60 percent of the total popula-
tion of Liberia earn their livelihood from agriculture. With 15 persons per
square kilometer, the average population density is low, ranging from 5 to 20
in the various counties. Thus, land availability is not a constraint to agri-
cultural development at present. The upland areas of Liberia are generally
unsuitable for permanent cultivation of annual crops due to low soil fertility.
For this reason, shifting cultivation is widely practised which has a damaging
environmental effect, particularly on the country's forest resources. However,
the ecological conditions of Liberia's upland areas are generally suitable for
profitable cultivation of tree crops. Liberia is not a major producer of tree
crops and its share of world production is negligible (in the case of coffee
and cocoa, 0.2 percent) and will continue to be so even after the implementa-
tion of the Government's expansion program.
19.       The existing farming operations fall into three categories:
(a) concession farms consisting of large foreign-owned plantations producing
exclusively for exports (rubber, timber) and characterized by the use of



- 7 -
trained managerial and technical staff and extensive capital outlay;
(b) Liberian-owned commercial farms engaged primarily in rubber production
but with secondary interest in coffee, cocoa and oil palm and some poultry and
livestock; and (c) traditional subsistence farms consisting of small Earmers
producing mainly for home consumption. The latter comprises over 90 percent
of all households in agriculture. The traditional sector is largely outside
the monetized economy, located in areas with minimal infrastructure and
composed of farms where less than two hectares are cultivated each year. It
produces mainly subsistence crops such as rice and cassava and some cash crops
such as coffee, cocoa and sugarcane. There is little adoption of modern
farming technology.
Government Objectives and Strategies
20.       As noted in Part I, Liberia's economy is heavily dependent on
iron ore mining for export earnings and government revenues. Iron ore output
is subject to unstable world demand and market prices, and the Government's
strategy is to diversify its economic base with particular emphasis oln increas-
ing agricultural output in a variety of commodities. Within the agricutural
sector, the aim is to diversify and modernize production, increase productivity,
improve associated rural economic activities such as marketing and processing,
and provide social and other basic infrastructure. The Government aims at
achieving a balanced development combining increases in production with a more
equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth, at the same! time
promoting the participation of the entire population in their country's
development efforts. The National Socio-Economic Development Plan (1976-80)
attaches priority to agriculture and rural development and considers the
sector as the cornerstone of the country's development strategy.
21.       The Government's approach to agricultural development involves:
(i) the establishment and operation by public sector corporations of rela-
tively large estates with smallholder outgrowers for cash crops such as oil
palm, coconuts and sugarcane production; (ii) encouragement of smallholder
rubber, coffee and cocoa production; these crops would help diversify exports
and increase export earnings and government revenues; and (iii) the implemen-
tation of rural development projects to raise the productivity, income level
and living conditions of the traditional farmers who represent the vast
majority of the rural population. The Government has also implemented a few
"special projects", such as the expanded rice program, based on mechanized
land clearing and cultivation of cleared areas by smallholders. The devel-
opment of plantation and special projects reflects the Government's
understandable desire to increase and diversify agricultural output quickly
and to offset labor shortages. However, in one or two instances, implemen-
tation of large-scale costly mechanized projects, principally for rice
production, has led to uneconomic investments and a revision of Government
policy regarding "special projects."
Constraints
22.       A rapid expansion and diversification of the sector in the short and
medium term is constrained by a number of factors. The most critical is the
shortage of adequately trained manpower, particularly at the managerial and
professional levels, to plan and implement an increasing number of development



8-
projects. The Government is taking measures to overcome this constraint
through the establishment of a manpower planning unit in the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs, the creation of an Agricultural and Industrial
Training Board and manpower studies with assistance from external multilateral
and bilateral agencies such as the Bank and USAID.
23.       Another major constraint to the development of the sector has been
a lack of adequate institutional capability to plan, prepare and Implement
agricultural and rural development projects. The Government's extension ser-
vices, input and credit supply system need to be strengthened. The Ministry
of Agriculture, despite recent attempts to reorganize and decentralize its
activities, needs further strengthening. The recently created Agricultural
and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) is helping expand and streamline the
Government's agricultural credit operation and is serving as a first step in
creating a framework for institutional credit for the traditional agricul-
tural sector. The Government has also established a Rural Development Task
Force which has developed proposals for strengthening institutions at the
county level for preparing and implementing rural development projects.
The Oil Palm Sub-Sector
24.       The oil palm industry in Liberia is still in its early stages of
development. Palm products (consisting of palm kernels, palm kernel oil,
expeller cake and palm oil) accounted for only 0.8 percent of total exports
in 1975. There are about 10,000 ha of cultivated plantations, with only
50 percent in full production. There are about 35,000 ha of wild groves
harvested by small farmers for home consumption and village markets. About
80 percent of the cultivated area is in the hands of large farmers and cor-
porations ranging in size from 65 ha to 3,000 ha. The remaining 20 percent
is operated by small farmers with government technical and financial assist-
ance. Present palm oil production is estimated at about 10,000 tons a year.
25.       The Government's involvement in the oil palm sub-sector began in
1972 when it started to provide technical and financial assistance to farmers
through the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC). There are three
smallholder projects being operated by LPMC. These are a 900-ha project at
Foya-Solumba, a 300-ha project in Zlehtown and a 270-ha farm in Kpatwee.
These projects have been in operation since 1974 and are being financed
entirely by the Government.
26.       The Government's first attempt to develop a large-scale industrial
estate with associated smallholders followed the signing of an agricultural
cooperation agreement between the Ivory Coast and Liberia, under which the
Ivory Coast agreed to assist Liberia in developing its oil palm and coconut
industry. As part of the assistance, the proposed oil palm project at Decoris
(Maryland County) was prepared together with two other projects at Buto (Sinoe
County) and Dube (Grand Gedeh County) by SODEPAIM in 1976. The Government
expects to develop 5,200 ha at Buto (3,100 ha of nucleus estate and 2,100 ha
of smallholder farms), 5,200 ha at Dube (4,166 ha of nucleus estate and
1,034 ha of smallholder farms), and the proposed Decoris project. The Buto
project is being financed by the European Economic Community (EEC) and the
Dube project by the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI). At
full development, these three projects wuld produce about 50,000-60,000 tons



-9-
of palm oil per annum, of which about 75 percent would be for export. This
would amount to less than 1 percent of world production and less than 1
percent of the entire amount sold on the world export market. Under an
agreement signed in March 1977, SODEPAIM would manage the Buto and '[ube
projects for the Liberian Palm Products Corporation (LPPC).
27.       At present, oil palm processing capacity is limited in Li'beria.
LPMC has been operating a small (1 ton ffb/hour) mill at Totota since 1975.
It plans to install another small mill at Foya shortly. There are also three
private plants with capacities of 20 tons ffb/hour, 5 tons ffb/hour and 1 ton
ffb/hour, respectively.
28.       The Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (LPMC) and the Liberian
Palm Products Corporation (LPPC) are the two public institutions which in
recent years have been involved with oil palm development in the country.
LPMC was established in 1962 and has been charged with overall responsibility
for the Government's tree crops program except for rubber. In 1977, the LPPC
was established as a subsidiary of L1R4C, mainly for the purpose of carrying
out the Buto oil palm project being financed by the EEC. Both of these
institutions suffer from inadequate management and lack of experienced tech-
nical staff and efficient financial and accounting systems.  Because of the
weaknesses of these institutions and the need for a study to determine the
most suitable institutional framework for the development of the suLb-sector,
the Government agreed to set up a separate autonomous entity, the Decoris
Oil Palm Company (DOPC), for the implementation of the proposed project. At
the same time, provision has been made under the project for financing a
proposed institutional study (see para. 42).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The proposed project was identified by the Government and prepared
by SODEPAIM under a bilateral assistance arrangement with the Government of
the Ivory Coast. At the request of the Liberian Government, the project was
appraised by the Bank in January/February 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Liberia: Decoris Oil Palm Project", No. 2526-LBR, dated September 26,
1979, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. NIegotiations
took place in Washington from August 27 to August 31, 1979. The Liberian
negotiating team was led by Mr. Rudolph Johnson, Deputy Minister of Finance.
Project Objectives
30.       The project would help the Government in its efforts to expand and
diversify the country's export base with a view to reducing the couantry's
present heavy dependence on iron ore. The project would provide permanent
employment for about 1,000 persons and directly increase the income levels of
about 1,000 smallholder farm families through the development of 7,500 ha of
high yielding oil palm on a nucleus estate and associated smallholder farms.
The project would also help strengthen the institutional capability of the
country through provisions for staff training and an organizational study
to determine a suitable institutional arrangement for the longer tierm devel-
opment of the oil palm sub-sector.



- 10 -
Project Area
31.       The project would be located in Maryland County about 32 km
northwest of Harper and about 750 km southeast of Monrovia. The ecological
conditions in the project area are considered suitable for oil palm cultiva-
tion. The good climate and soil conditions and the proximity of the project
area to an existing port are favorable factors for the viability of the
project.
Project Scope
32.       The project, which would be implemented over a 7-year period
(1980-87), would include: establishing and operating a 5,000 ha nucleus
estate; providing extension services and credit facilities to develop 2,500 ha
of smallholder farms; training DOPC staff and smallholders; constructing an
oil mill; establishing a fruit collection system; constructing roads; con-
structing and installing storage and port facilities; and providing technical
assistance and consultant services.
Nucleus Estate Development
33.       It is proposed that about 5,000 ha of oil palm plantation be estab-
lished on the nucleus estate. Land required for the estate would be acquired
by the Government and leased for a period of not less than 50 years to the
Decoris Oil Palm Company (DOPC), a statutory corporation which the Government
has very recently established (see paras. 48 to 50). In order to ensure
timely execution of the estate plantation program, the Government would, as a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan acquire and lease to the oil
palm company about 8,350 ha of land already surveyed (44 percent of which
would be planted). The acquisition and transfer of an additional 1,500 ha
required for the estate would take place by September 30, 1980. Settlers
already cultivating any of the land to be taken over by the estate would be
provided with adequate compensation by the Government in accordance with
criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The criteria would include provisions for
cash payments for structures and value of crops, land of comparable size and
quality, as well as community facilities in the areas of resettlement. (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 6.01).
34.       Seeds required for the project would be obtained from IRHO (Institut
de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux) in the Ivory Coast or other
suitable suppliers. The planting material to be used would have already been
tested and proven suitable for the ecological and soil conditions of the
project area. Seed requirements of the project would be provided under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.04 and
Schedule 1, C3).
Smallholders
35.       The project would help develop smallholder plantations in seven
villages adjacent to a road leading to the nucleus estate. The smallholder
program would be the responsibility of DOPC which would set up a Smallholders
Plantation Division for this purpose. The smallholder participants would
be selected in accordance with criteria agreed during negotiations between
the Government and the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.05). The criteria



- 11 -
would include giving preference to people who live in the areas where the
plantations are located and are engaged in agriculture as their main source
of livelihood. As an incentive to participate in the project, farmers would
be paid US$1 cash per day worked and given one bag (100 lbs) of rice per
worker per month (one bag of rice costs US$22.50 as of May 31, 1979) during
the first four years of plantation development. Credit would be provided in
kind (e.g. seedlings and fertilizers) as well as in cash (e.g. for Labor),
with repayment over 13 years, including 6 years of grace and interest at 12.5
percent. Although the recent inflation rate in Liberia has been about 14-15
percent (April 1978 to March 1979), the rate is expected to decline over the
next two years to around 10 percent per annum, thus resulting in a positive
interest rate.  The farmers would also have sufficient land and techmical
assistance for cultivating food crops.
36.       Land currently owned by the Government adjacent to the se/en villages
which would be used for the smallholder plantations would be surveyed and
demarcated by December 31, 1980 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). In the
demarcated areas, participating farmers would initially obtain tribil certi-
ficates for their holdings, but would subsequently be given title with DOPC
technical assistance. Each farm would be allowed to plant food crops on an
extra two ha of land outside the oil palm plot. Settlers already cualtivating
land where smallholder plantations are to be located would be compensated, if
they need to be resettled, according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
Training
37.       Under their management agreement (see para. 50), DOPC management
consultants wDuld be required to implement a program for staff training and
on-the-job experience that would enable qualified Liberian DOPC staff to fill
senior managerial and technical posts at an early stage. Employees selected
by DOPC for training for senior managerial and technical positions would be
required to agree to work with DOPC for a minimum of two years after complet-
ing their training (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(b)). DOPC would be
required, by Project Year 2, to select candidates for the mill engineer and
mill manager positions since their training would require at least four years
of university training plus two years practical work before joining the
company. Part of their training would involve visits to companies where the
mill equipment is being manufactured, including working with engineers in the
construction phase in Liberia. Liberians who are already trained in agricul-
ture and engineering would be given on-the-job training and short courses
abroad including short working periods on oil palm plantations of other
developing countries. They would be initially hired as field superintendents;
from among them the estate manager, assistant estate manager, smallholder
manager and roads engineer would be selected.  Overseers, headmen, laborers
(for harvesting) and smallholder farmers would receive on-the-job training.
Palm Oil Mill
38.        Production of oil palm is scheduled to start in 1986 with about
14,000 tons ffb, building up to an annual production of about 109,COO tons by
1993. To process this, a palm oil mill capable of processing 30 tons ffb per
hour would be constructed in two stages. The first stage, to be ccmpleted by



- 12 -
1986, would be capable of processing 20 tons ffb per hour. In the second
stage, equipment with an additional capacity of 10 tons ffb per hour would be
installed. The completed mill would be in operation by the end of 1987, i.e.
at project completion. A maintenance workshop equipped with tools and equip-
ment required to keep the mill functioning would be constructed on the mill
site.
Fruit Collection
39.       Both estate and smallholder ffb would be collected from roadside
collection points by dump trucks provided under the project.  Ffb would be
graded by project staff and loaded manually. To maintain quality standards,
a simple grading system would be introduced with announced discounts for
overripe or badly bruised fruits. Trucks would be weighed at the mill gate
(in and out) and the weight of each truckload recorded. The weight of bunches
delivered daily by each block plantation would be communicated the next
day to smallholders and the corresponding receipt delivered to them by the
truck driver. Farmers would be paid in cash at the end of each week. Using
the proposed oil palm pricing study under the project, a price formula satis-
factory to the Bank will be established to determine prices to be paid to
farmers (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07).
Project Roads
40.       To ensure efficient transportation of project estate and farm
products and the distribution of inputs, the project would include a program
of constructing, rehabilitating and resurfacing about 47 km of main access
roads, constructing 128 km of feeder roads, and constructing 350 km of col-
lector tracks with some culverts and bridges.
41.       Included in the roads program referred to above are some roads
which are estimated to be used about 75 percent of the time for non-project
purposes by non-project users. They include 9 km of the Fishtown/Harper road
to be rehabilitated, the 5 km of the Plebo/Harper Port road to be resurfaced
and 35 km of feeder roads linking smallholder plantations to the estate. That
part of the cost of these roads attributable to the project, estimated at
US$0.4 million, is included in the total project cost as a part of the
Government's contribution. However, the construction of these roads would be
the responsibility of the Government (Ministry of Public Works) and would be
completed by December 31, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
42.       DOPC would employ consultants to prepare tender documents and final
designs for all roads and bridges on the estate and smallholder plantations.
All estate roads and feeder roads on the smallholder plantations would be
constructed and maintained by DOPC, while the Government would be responsible
for maintaining all other roads constructed under the project (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05).



- 13 -
Port Improvements
43.       About 75 percent of project output consisting of about 24,000 tons
of palm oil and 4,300 tons of palm kernels would be for export, and would
be shipped through the port of Harper located about 25 km from the proposed
oil mill site. To facilitate this, provision is made under the project to
construct a palm oil storage depot at Harper comprising two storage tanks with
1,000 tons capacity each and a pumping/boiler room with associated equipment
and piping. The port improvement works would also include the construction of
a weigh-bridge, a jetty and an oil barge. The required space at the port
would be leased to DOPC by the National Port Authority (NPA); NPA would also
allow DOPC's electricity, palm oil and water lines to pass through NPA's
property to connect the project facilities with public supplies.
Consultants Services
44.       The project provides for 90 man-months of consultants services
estimated to cost US$10,000 per month (including fees, accommodatLon, sub-
sistence and transportation). The consultants would: prepare preLiminary
designs for the palm oil mill, prepare tender documents, analyze tenders and
supervise mill construction; design and supervise construction of port
facilities at Harper; design and supervise access and feeder roads financed
under the project; conduct an organizational study to help determine the most
suitable institutional arrangements for the oil palm sub-sector; prepare a
follow-up oil palm project; and help the Government to develop a suitable
pricing formula for smallholder fresh fruit bunches. In addition, provision
is made for 3 man-years of technical assistance, estimated at about US$50,000
per year (excluding housing), for strengthening the monitoring and evaluation
unit of the Ministry of Agriculture. All consultants employed under the
project would have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.02, Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       Total project cost over the 7-year development period 1980/81
to 1986/87 is estimated at US$48.8 million. Of this, US$26.7 million or
55 percent would represent foreign costs. Project costs include an estimated
US$0.9 million of identifiable taxes (e.g. on fuel, diesel oil, lubricants and
other locally purchased consumables) but exclude all other taxes and duties on
items specifically imported for the project which are exempt. The costs
include physical contingencies ranging from 5 to 15 percent on various com-
ponents and price contingencies of 10 percent per annum for all local costs
and between 5 and 7 percent per annum on foreign costs.
46.       The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million would cover about 27
percent of total project costs net of taxes and duties or about 48 percent of
estimated total foreign costs.  It would be used to help finance only the
foreign costs of the project. The bank loan would be disbursed against the
foreign costs of the nucleus and smallholder field establishment, oil mill,
port improvements, road construction, and consultants. Co-financing would be



provided by the African Developnent Bank (ADB) in the form of a loan of US$8.0
million equivalent (16 percent of total project costs) which would be dis-
bursed against the costs of road construction, project buildings and houses,
and vehicles and equipment. The ADB loan would be repayable over 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8 percent per annum, including a
statutory commission of 1 percent per annum. A loan of US$15.0 million
equivalent (31 percent of total costs), to be provided by the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), would be used to finance the nucle-          I --te;
and smallholder establishments, the oil mill, agricultural equipmenL, and
expatriate staff salaries. The CDC loan would be for 20 years, including 7
years of grace, with interest at 7.5 percent per annum.  A credit of approxi-
mately US$2.0 million (4 percent of total costs) from the European Economic
Community under the Special Action Account would be earmarked for local costs
of road construction and domestic transportation of equipment. The EEC
financing would be on standard IDA terms.  The Government of Liberia wotld
provide US$11.8 million (24 percent of total cost) towards the local costs of
the oil mill, port improvements, roads, local staff salaries, buildings and
houses. The Government of Liberia would also assist DOPC in obtaining addi-
tional financing of about US$3.0 million required between project development
Years 6 and 9 to bring all plantings to maturity and the mill into operation
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).
47.       It is proposed that US$4.0 million of the Bank loan, all of the EEC
credit of US$2.0 million, US$5.0 million of the CDC loan and US$2.5 million
of the ADB loan as well as US$11.8 million from government resources be
transferred to DOPC in the form of equity investment by the Government.
US$7.7 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan and the balances of the ADB
and CDC loans would be re-lent by the Government to DOPC at 10 percent
interest per annum for 25 years, including a grace period of 8 years during
which interest would be capitalized. (The balance of US$0.3 million from the
Bank loan would be retained by Government for studies and the strengthening
of the Ministry of Agriculture's monitoring and evaluation unit.) The
foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan would be borne by DOPC. The conclu-
sion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for making available to DOPC the
proceeds of ADB and CDC loans would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
Implementation
48.       The project would be implemented by the Decoris Oil Palm Company
(DOPC) over a 7-year period between 1980 and 1987.  DOPC is an autonomous
company, with its own Board of Directors, established for the purpose
of implementing the proposed project. The establishment of such a new
entity was necessitated by the absence of a suitable institution to which the
implementation of the project could be entrusted. The existing institutions
such as LPMC and LPPC were found inadequate for the purpose (see para. 25).
In view of the other ongoing oil palm projects in the country, the broader
question of management of the entire oil palm sub-sector needs careful con-
sideration. Therefore, the project provides for an institutional/ orga-
nizational study to assist the Government in determining suitable



- 15 -
institutional arrangements for the development (e.g. production and market-
ing) of the oil palm sub-sector. The implementation by Government of any
recommendations resulting from the study shall be subject to the Bank's
agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The company would have ia debt/
equity ratio of 1:1 at project completion with a total government investment
in equity of US$25.3 million. While the mill is under construction, the
company would experience some cash deficits; but from Year 10 onwards DOPC
would show annual cash surpluses after debt service. The financial rate of
return to DOPC is estimated at 15 percent.
49.       DOPC would consist of five main divisions:  Finance and Administra-
tion, Estate Planning, Smallholder Plantations, Engineering, and Processing
and Marketing. DOPC's senior management staff would be provided by an
international management firm selected and operating under a management
contract acceptable to the Bank. The signing of the management contract
would be a condition of effectiveness for the Bank loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(c)).
50.       When the project is fully operational, the senior management staff
would comprise: General Manager, Financial Controller, Estate Plantations
Manager, Assistant Estate Plantations Manager, Smallholder Plantations
Manager, Roads Engineer, Chief Mechanic, Mill Manager, and Mill Engineer.
Personnel recruited for senior positions would be acceptable to the Bank;
where suitably qualified Liberians are not available, the required expatriate
staff would be recruited internationally. The management contract would be
for eight years, given the limited local capability at present and the long
gestation period of the crop. However, the contract would include a break
clause to allow for a mid-term review of the performance of the management
team and also a possible change in the status of the company in the light of
the recommendations of the proposed institutional study. The contract would
also include provisions for training and Liberianization.
Procurement
51.       Procurement contracts of US$100,000 or more to be financed under
the Bank and CDC loans for farm inputs (e.g., fertilizers, chemicals), heavy
equipment and vehicles, and barge and port facilities at Harper would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Such contracts are estimated at about US$5.2 million in tbhe aggregate.
Contracts for these same items and contracts for civil works (other than
buildings housing the palm oil mill) between US$20,000 and US$100,000 would
be procured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The aggregate total of such contracts would not exceed US$1.5 million.
Contracts of less than US$20,000 would be handled by direct competitive
shopping. The aggregate total of such contracts would not exceed US$800,000.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15 percent preference or
the applicable duty, whichever is lower, when comparing domestic bids with
those of foreign manufacturers.The turn-key contract for the mill estimated at
US$17.1 million, of which US$4.9 million would be financed by the Bank, would
be awarded under limited international tendering procedures acceptable to the



- 16 -
Bank. Services of expatriate staff, valued at US$1.4 million would be
obtained in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts
for civil works, estimated at US$2.9 million (other than those being financed
by the Bank), comprising mainly houses, camps and workshops, and construction,
rehabilitation and resurfacing of roads valued at US$2.3 million would be
financed and procured by ADB, EEC and Government of Liberia in accordance
with their procedures. Remaining project costs (e.g. salaries, operating
costs, training and field establishment) amounting to about US$17.6 million,
including contingencies, would also be financed by these external agencies and
Government according to their own procedures.
Disbursements
52.       The Bank loan of US$12.0 million would be disbursed over seven
years (1980-87) as follows:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign costs of directly imported
seeds, polybags, fertilizers, tools, and other materials
for the field establishment program or 80 percent of
local costs if procured locally, totalling US$2.9
million;
(b) 50 percent of the foreign costs of the palm oil mill
equipment, totalling USS4.8 million;
(c) 100 percent of the foreign costs for the barge and port
installations at Harper Port, totalling US$1.3 million;
(d) 100 percent of the foreign costs of directly imported
equipment for the road program or 80 percent of local
costs if procured locally, totalling US$0.9 million;
(e) 100 percent of the foreign costs or 80 percent of local
costs of consultants' services and technical assistance,
totalling US$1.1 million; and
(f) unallocated estimated at US$1.0 million.
The EEC Special Action Credit of about US$2.0 million would be disbursed over
a period of less than two years between July 1980 and March 1982 as follows:
(a) 85 percent of local expenditures for road construction and domestic
transportation for road equipment, totalling US$1.7 million; and (b) unallo-
cated, totalling US$300,000.
Benefits and Justification
53.        The project would help the Government to meet the country's develop-
ment objectives of diversifying its export base, increasing foreign exchange
earnings, and providing employment for, and improving the income levels of,
rural farm families. The principal direct benefit from the project wuld be
the additional annual production of 24,000 tons of palm oil and 4,300 tons of
palm kernel, of which about 75 percent wuld be exported. By 1993, additional
net foreign exchange earnings wuld be about US$11.0 million per year in
1979 constant dollars. The project would have a permanent staff of about



- 17 -
1,060 people drawn from the Decoris area and employ about 1,200 people during
the development phase. The project would also increase cash incomes for at
least 1,000 farm families (7,000 people). At full development, these families
would earn about US$950 per family per annum compared to their present per-
family cash income of US$100 per annum.
54.       The project would provide training for at least 1,500 Liberians
in oil palm production techniques. Access and feeder roads and bridges
constructed under the project would provide much needed infrastructure for
about 30,000 people residing in the villages in the immediate vicinity of
the project areas. The improved infrastructure would improve the access of
the people in the area to health, educational and market facilities.
55.       The overall economic rate of return of the project is estimated
at 12 percent, which is comparable with the return expected from other Bank-
financed oil palm projects. Sensitivity analysis indicates that with a
one-year delay in full project development and a cost increase of 10 percent,
the economic rate of return would be about 9 percent.
Risks
56.       The project faces no unusual technical risks.  It would be managed
by an international firm with considerable oil palm experience. The project's
technical package has been tested under similar conditions in neighboring
Ivory Coast. Climatically and in terms of soil conditions, the project area
is considered favorable for oil palm cultivation. The closeness of the area
to an existing port facility would facilitate the exporting of project output.
The risk of delay in the rate of development of the smallholder plantations
should be overcome with assistance from the Decoris Oil Palm Company and close
monitoring by the Government. However, the success of the institution build-
ing effort to ensure the effective and efficient management of the oil palm
sub-sector over the long term would depend to a large degree on the ability
of the Government and DOPC to recruit, train and retain competent Liberians.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and the
Bank, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and the Association as the Administrator of the Special Action Credit
Account, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, the Administrator and
DOPC, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
58.       Additional conditions of effectiveness are: the Borrower shall have
deposited an amount of not less than US$900,000 into DOPC's bank account; the
signing of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and DOPC; the conclusion of arrangements for making available to DOPC



- 18 -
the proceeds of the CDC loan and ADB loan; the signing of the DOPC Management
Agreement; the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the CDC Loan Agreement, ADB Loan Agreement and EEC Special Action Credit
Agreement; and the acquisition and leasing by Government to DOPC of about
8,350 ha of land required for the nucleus estate (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and that the Special Action Credit would comply with
the Agreement between the EEC and the Member States and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 10, 1979



- 19 -                                           ANEX IL
TABLE 3A                                      Page  1  of  5  pages
LIBERIA - soIJ.L LNtDCATORS DATA SREET
LIBERIA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (AWSTll"ED AypMGES
LAND AREA (TUOUSAND SQ.KMP )                                               -        MOST RECENT ESL ATE)
tOTAkL          li11. 4                                                SAKE        SAKE     NEXT if GlER
AGRICULTUAL        6.1                               5 IST RECNT     GEOCGRAPHIC   UiCOKE      LNCOME
1960  b    1970 r ESTIMATE L        REGION /c  GROUP Id   GROUP /f
GNrP PER CAPITA (US)                160.0       250.0    460.0           306.1      467.5       1097.7
ENZC! CONSUMTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGIAS Of COAL EQOIVALDET)      86.0       454.0    418.0             80.6      262.1       730.7
POPULATION AiD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATItON KID-TEA! (MILLIONS)     1.0         1.3       1.7
UUAN POPULATION (PDCEN?T OP TOTAL) 20.5         26.2     29.5            17.1       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MLULIONS)                      3.0
srATIONAAtL POPtLATION (MILLIONS)                       9.0
LA  STATLONAIT POPULATION IS BLACNMD                 2130
POPUATION DUES rTy
PER SQ. KM.                       9.0        12.0      15.0            18.4       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. IOL. AGRICULTURAL LAND    163.0     217.0    279.0             50.8      149.0       140.7
POPULATION ACG  mUCrE (PRCENT)
0-14 YnS.                        40.8        40.7      43.0            44.1       45.2        41.3
15-64 ILS.                        56.0        56.0      54.0            52.9       51.9        35.3
65 Yu. AND ABOVE                   3.2         3.3       3.0             2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULAIOtN G3OrVE RATE (PUCNrT)
TOTAL                             2.8          3.1      3.4             2.7        2.7         2.4
UR8AN                               ..        5.6       5.6             5.7        4.3         4.5
CRUDE RUTh UATE (PDL TEOUSAJD)      51.0        51.0      51.0           46.3        39.4       31.1
CRUDE 014TH RATE (PER TOUSAD)       25.0        20.0      18.0            17.2       11.7        9.2
GROSS UPRODUCTION RATE                -          2.6      3.4             3.1        2.7         2.2
PAMILY PLANING
ACCPTORS  ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PELCE8T OF MARRIED WOtEN)   ..          ..        ..              ..       13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
IDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTIOEE
PUIL CAPITA (t969-71-100)        97.6       101.0     109.0            94.3       99.6       104.4
Pu  CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (PURCIENT OF
uRQUIRImTS)                    86.0        84.0      87.0            89.5       94.7       105.0
PEtOTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        35.0        36.1      39.0            55.8       54.3        64.4
OF WILICh ANIMAL AYD PULSE       ..         9.6Lz.                   17.9       17.4        23.5
C-lLD (ACGS I-4) MEALITT RATE       36.0        29.0      23.0           22.3        11.4        8.6
HEALTH
LInt EZECTANCY AT rt7  (YEARS)    40.0         47.0      48.0            47.0       54.7        60.2
IDrANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TIOUSAND)                            *-       159.0        *-              *-       68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATL (PURCENT OF
POPJLATIONA)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      20.0            20.3       34.4        60.S
URSAN                              ..          ..      64.0            53.9       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              *-          *-       6.0            10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL (PEILCUT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..       11.0           22.5       40.8        46.0
URBAN                              ..          ..      35.0            62.5       71.3        46.0
RURAL                              *-          *-       6.0            13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PEYSICI.A        1200O.OLh   11590.0   10050.0         17424.7    6799.4       2262.4
POPULATIEON PER 9UESINC PUSON     5710.OLh    4590.0   3150.0          2506.6    1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PUR SOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            730.0       690.0       ..           502.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           201.4      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              *-          *-        *-          1403.6     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BED          ..         27.7       ..            23.4       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE S IZE OF SOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.4         5.3
UR3AN                               ..         ..        ..             4.9        5.1         5.2
RUaAL                              ..          ..        ..             5.5        5.5         5.4
AVERAGE NcEaD OF PERSONS PD. ROOM
TOTAL                               *                                                          1.9 
UR8AN                              1-7L        ..        ..              ..         ..         1.6
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              .          ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITT (PERCENT
OF DWELLIYCGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       28.1        50.0
URBAN                              ..          .         ..              ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                              ..          .         ..              ..        9.9        17.3



- 20 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
LXBUIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBtlIA                   RZEFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED Ay RACES
LIBERIA                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAtt        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOK        INCOnE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 31.0         53.0       62.0             59.0       82.7        102.5
MALE                  45.0         72.0      79.0             64.2        87.3       108.6
FEMALE                18.0        35.0       44.0             44.2        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          9.0       16.0              9.0       21.4         33.5
MALE                   3.0         13.0      24.0             12.0        33.0        38.4
FEMALZ                 1.0         4.0        8.0              4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)    ..           5.3        3.0              7.0        9.8         11.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            32.0         36.0       41.0            42.2        34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                          12.0         17.0         ..            22.9        23.4         22.9
ADULT LITEACY RATE (PERCENT)           9.0/f      15.0         ..             20.8       54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CRS PER TXOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         11.0        8.1              4.0        9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         77.0        132.0      155.0            44.3        76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVEIS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         4.3        5.0              2.9       13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GNERAL
IIrTIREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          6.0        7.6              5.6       18.3         40.0
CINEMA, ANNUAL ATENDIANCE PER CAPITA  0.6          0.6         ..              0.4        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       410.0/f      580.0      650.0
FDKALE (PERCENT)                   33.5         32.5       32.3             31.9       29.2         25.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.7         75.6       73.0            77.6        62.7         43.5
JNDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.7         11.6       14.0              7.9       11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.3         39.8       38.3             40.8       37.1         33.5
KALE                                 56.6         54.4       52.7             53.9       48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                28.1        25.6       24.4             25.6       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY LATIO                1.0/f       1.0        1.1              1.2         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS       ..        61.7/        ..              ..        15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          72.6M        ..               ..       48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         5 3         .                ..        6.3          3 9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS       ..        109o         ..              ..        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..            187.6      241.3        270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       75.0            96.8       136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LLVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      137.0           138.4       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      125.0            71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .           ..      23.0             34.5        24.8         20.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..            48.7        37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicacor and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among che
indicators dep4nds on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate. between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income  (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1962;   Li  1965;   /b  1964;   /i  City of Monrovia only;
/   Population, 1975 Bank Economic Report.  Righer Income calculated as residual; includes expatriates.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
AuguSt, 1979



-21 -                                                            ANNEX I
DrMfITI  OFOMMCT                                                           Page r of 5 pages
lotte:  Although the data  -r  droee  fri  souoecgemlly joudgd the met asthnritati    aid reliable, It shoul  eI-se  he  ted that they MaY not Incetee -
tIo...lly rops-a-blc becaus  of the lek of standardised deinitiona  an  osmepta case by d12ffrmt coutries In collet hug the data. The hots e.r, ntee
useful to descibe order  of -qeitude, Weirabe trae.4, ad oherarterts cetain  ajor dlfferses beshtemeru-                   h.
Th   6uted szcsaypup  for each indicator are Ppeluiato-cighted   nmctrho smacas, eIAiuleg the extre,e nine, of the  indictor end the -.s  populated
oouiryiihegnspJTeeto les  of data, g-op  -eeegm   of .11  dindotera fer Capital a-pI.a. Oil  aptertr  and of tadio-tora of keen  to bwaer  An  2wreta
Diepocal, Haswiag, Incom   Msitrhbtioneead ib"rec   for sOar cotry g-nsq  are ppltwie,l-cetd gosstrte ve,ea  dihoest emeimi of the  -tre  enace ad
inleatea  a t    ta             Punssstry and r  treoe. mama.
LAID ASEA (thousnd oq.km..)                                                              Mecca to lomsdapaj  peen   f  otltia      otl                                    
%T          Ttota  curfee area -roirhiog land are   ad inlnd caters.                     N r of people(otel uras  adrual   sredbyscrtsdipma
drirs_klt-rl -  Ibset -cot esthete of egieultsrcj area need teqerar-ip                   pacetagee of their repeotive ppiestions, fterets diap.ees eq  taslt
or pe-aetly for crpe, pastures, tSt and kitham gardens or to                          the -o11stioa cd diep .sal, sith or cutout tretaeet, of bin  -arete
his fallow                                                                             -ad cate-wter by eater-bore  cyst-n  or the .ee of pit prieics as c-dle
ibetellattos..
GNP  ER   PTA (S4)- GNP per capita catiate  st curret market pric...               Honultiom  see_ibasi4_n    Ppolathoe dieddd by cuter of prsticIag pdyahia.ea
Maleuatedhby sane  -ovrehon  sthod  s World lack Atlas (1976-78 haste);                 jJfl1flU7 t-    l:al eshool at onhorabty level.
1960, 1970, cod 1978 data.                                                             f    ~tflctherpaJkepgyceM  - Populaion dichdcd by out.  Lofpe              ite    male
nel  cgiipi WOR CAPITA - Anes-sl  ooenatioe of co-rIe  -acrg                           fe1   -4t                  preti-clonc,adusois
hca   n    ignte  yprirle.,naturaL gas and baldro-, maleran.          Lo              Poeesltion erNnaphte  Bed - total obn, adrrl-  outd(_a,s
therma  elvoiheity kin ti egam   of coa  equhvolet per ..pits; 1960o              ad rurl) divIded       hi  repotIve e _e of hoapital be&acfae  Ja
1970, and 1976 data.                                                                     poblic sod private general nod epeialed hostpital and rehabilitat*o    set.ra
-                                                            Ros~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Epitala are .tbtlkibeente  pera- tly  teffed by at least oMe Avysian.
copoPAtaRt  AND  IfTAL STATISTICS                                                          IettblisBeceta providing principally  -utodhal _creno  art i-ioldou  Rural
Total  uniston  wld-ea  (hlioc) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                          ho-jitala * hevr, tarlde health nod  edhoa1 -et-r  not preeansetly starred
197  ht.by a fepyioieo  (bt by n aedical asahetent, cure, aideife, et-.) aiso  ofer
rban Popula tion(seeen  of total) - h.ieth  of urban to total popsaisa                   in.ptient  -coedatice sod provde a lhiitrd csin  of mdclfailitiec,
different defhite  of urba  are., may affet o..r.hility if data                     Ada4gg5pngp rjpip6    e  - Tctel oute.r of  dialsicos to or diachargc, fe'o
ameeg c-utrhee; 1960, 1970, and 1975 hots..                                            . bop ld,  idi       j     Pseuber of hedj.
- C.rret populatie projections or based - Pe8
(1975 ttal *shotionby  gs and ce  ad their sociality sod fertility          Aeeraelc  of ushldiercone per Aouaboiu(   totl,  rba.Ion rMal 
ratee    rjtonooeesfo                 tlt  rtc"   ongriePofthree6bhouehol  coite cfa gon;c   ebiuast    hr  IIn    ,atr 
leel  aeuin  life  -ecrtoc  at birth Ihoore neg sut, coutry-a                      their main meals. A honodr or lodge  eqoreq not be iluded in the
per vephia moos  leve, and reale life toprottnoy stsiliaheg at                      houcehld fo  otatisti-al Prposec.
y7. yeo.  The parcastera for f-rtility rate ale  hav  tires level              Avmersa   ca rtr Opef perp rob  - total, urban, ad rural - Avrerge  -cber
Issa=o  deliee he fertility  -oordleg to inoa levl and past                         odf p_ronsperfroom in ill urban, and rural oecpte          -e~d c ...nIoa  dwellings,
family cleaning perfrean. F.oh coutry he thee asaigsaed one of these                repetively.  IusdLlinn  -solde non-preeanaet oteut-re   -d  -eccpted ports.
dIne o-binatifa oE mortality nod fertility treede for proJetics                   Ae.-  to electrIcity (errat of  ee lia    -tota,1 urbn, and rura  -  Con-
purposee.  -                                                   veo~rtricoldellga with   stirt i n liigqatr   spereenge of
stathosry ooesltioo - in. a  tathioos  pepultios there Ieco groeth                    total, urban, and rura  dwelInigs repectiely.
siar  the birt  rtch  equal to the drath rate, and alec the oge
strucur  revaiso o tentnt. This Is achievd only after fertility rates          ELIEATIOLI
decline to the replacmet leve  of -it net reprodutiPo rate, .en                   JM-tdhculle59t   ioa
each genertion of  -ee  replac-  btaelf  -tly.  The sttiPoary pop-ttl.ml  ndfsl -Prlines ltotal, sir and fesale enrol-
muon- nic ea  estimtetd os the bseic of the PJireted ohoractrictica                    -   of      ae  atteprmr  lvla  prreataga  of reapertiv- primary
of the population in the year 2000, end the rate of decline of fertility               scolaepoplation; aoremIly ioludes childea  aged (-l y-ar  hot
rote to replacemet leve.                                                                djucted for dIfferrt lengths of primory e&eatise; for countri-t ctb
Yea statise    eco-latico is reached - The year  hn stationery poplation                ani-eW  ed-rtion enrolment eq  asend 100 pareti sinc  som  pupilo
cisc has been reeched.                                                                ore avo   or shov  the offbichl school ag..
Pooo1atioe D-itby                                                                       Secodar school - oa. aeedfl       iatdW soo;soiiec
Pe  n.h. - md-yea  population perpruar  kilomter (100 heoirs)o                       ducation  -equbrs  t eat   foryaso          -prvd primary hnst-utcoo;
totalet                                                                               proides gseo'al  -octicesl, or tamehr tradoing 1tsotru .h.. for pu,pils
Per   k. h. agriculturl land - C.npoted us nho- for cgibutural land                     usualy of 12 to 17 year  of age; cropanecu eoare gc--rly
Poltbon de  tutre(        0rn)-Chbidren (0-it years),  kring-ege                     Voratb Pslerllet(eet             o   sniui     uaonlisiotoobi7"0
(15h  prns   n   eird(Oyaoad ove) as p-roetage  of eid-yaur                              teohnionL,  nusril  or. other penre  ahieb operate idcpndcotly or as
populatios; 1960, 1970, and 197i7 data.                                                  dcpertmeta of  -eoday institutions
.. nlation Growth Rate (peruet)t  total - Ao-Isalroath rates of total aid-             Ppnl-ta rrtio -  riMa.en   eeday- To,tal sideots  -arclld is
erpuplatio.e for 19%-0-b, 1960-711, sad 1970-77.                                     pr_r   n   naaylvl  dvide  by etrs o- teobe-  ho the  ore
Pouslation Growth Pate (percnt - urban - Asus-a  growth rates of urba                      spending  e-el..
populationsfor 1950-60, 1907,ed17-75.                                                 Adult lhierme  rate (cer-et) - Literate edu1t  (sie to sed and -ric.)a
Cr.d  Birh   t.perthsosea) - mAn-1. live births per thousnd of aid-                  apereetge of total adult posho   ged 15 year  end over.
yea  p6Ation  IW0, 1   , and 1977 data.
Crude teeth late (pee thousad) - Ansesal deatho per th-ucnd c iad-year              CiNUMI4PION
poultion; 1900, 19170, and 1977 da.Peaar Cars (per thouan  Posslto) I-                                                                asaeroscorise motr core
GRoa   eRod_rth   baicRt  - Avera.ge  -uber of hought-r   eei cll hens               seti       .:es  thnrgtpro;co-dsa ees,bee-see and milItary
heher norma reprod-ctice perIod If ohe e-pricoc-o peeeet  ge-                        vehicles
epsoifhi  fertilIIty ratee; usualIly fiv-yea   --erg-e ending in 1960,              P.dic  ede         petcusdo l.is)-All tywpe  of r-crier  for radio
5970, nod 1975.                                                 b~~~PRoadrouts to geP      er tP",sad  f pePulatin;soldsuhase
eumhi elssing- hoestos. Aesoa (thssnede) - Annual esbee cf                    reoivresoutrhee   ind  ayasac  rehistw                    f raiosts         In d
septor  of birth-conro  device   une -uPices of oations  family                     effect; date for recet year  eq art be comarble share ns          rouirhe
planing prngrs.                                                                       abolished licening.
Pe:aoyPleonbo  - Uses   -ecet of criedhociare) -iPer-etsgc of earnd                   TV pece,ivers (cr thoonad pool  tin)   f  recIvrs foe brodcat to gearaa
woe   f child-bsinz  ge(5tbyar)nbnu  birth-control devices                         pulcprtouadpplio;scur   nIcend TV r-ce-er  he cetriva
to all maried ecar  he saagr groP.                                                    end ho yea obee rrgistr-ti- of TIV aetn ono iseffeot.
Indee offo   rdoothoo per Capits (1969-71-h00) - ffodec of Per capita                   devoted primaily to recrdinggera  bees.  It Is cnahdcred to be "daily'
eol production of all fond coidities. Production e-odes seed end                      hf it aPp_eaeat leat fou  time  a  -e,k
feed end is on --dar cen-  basis.  Conditise cover prirar  goodn  t                 Cinem  Annua  Attendanc  Per C spts ocr. hea  - Peord -, the outer of tichete
(s.. ogaono  boted o  egur  whchncredileendcotol  sori(it       od during the year, including  dsio-o-  to driv-is ciii   -An  mobile
(eg   offe  nod tca are cucded).  Aggregatc production of each cotery             unIts.
Is bta.ed .. netionel average Prod-"e prc        ghts.
per capit   upl   f caloies (preto         ieur-ets) - Coputed fro.               LABOR FOugh
onergr cocivaboot of net foo    upic   aRibnhl  ..so...try per capIta      Tota laor too         ho-nds) - &-noically active peroon, i-cldingerd
per day.  A-ailable supplie  -cpri-S do-t-c production, imports less                fore  and uneqlYw  ho   .. cWMoin  hou-eive, stedene, et. DsfinjiPPoa
e-prto, nod changes in otok.  Net ouplicu  -oobds anhie  feed, seeds,               invrIucutrie are_ tot cmprble.
quet it-es used is rood pror-ing, and Ioc-csis dibtribotcos.  equire-             fujr5e(             - feal  labor force as Peretage oP ita;. labor force
000 ccrti*antod by FAl bnucd on phyeiologia  ceds fr.  normal              9g~pff.pp )- labor PoesisfnadgI oetry, hit Ing ad
cothoity sod icaot cossbdcring -r-vrometnl t-ep-rtu-, body ceights,         fihing as perceetug  of total labor fore
ag  nd Lco   iobitioo of populatio, nod nll-oiag 10 pc--t for                   Ieduotry (Per-ent  - Labor force  iw ling, contrution, anfcurn   n
aste ot houshold leve.                                                             cltcoriciy, eater nod ga.n   pecnaeoftl lbor forew.
Pe icte sucri o f protcho lnre,  per daY) - Proteic cotect of Per                 Patoipathon Pe.te (;erocti  - tota   male  and femae         , Patiiption or
capit  ocspply of food per dey. act oupply of foo  so deficed us                    ntioityr-teo  - computed astotal,=. mae,nd femlemor forc  as per-
sbov. Peqoir-eeto for all cootr_etablished by USiDA proide for                       -etngeo of total, tale and fcmalw population of oil egre. repectively;
aiinhas  ellonoe  of 60 gren  or tcto1 protein per dey and 20 grin  of              1960. 1970, nod 1975 deta.  Thes,eare ILE-s perticipathi  rates reflecting
noisl and pulse protein, of  hiob     gee-  should b.eanimal protein.               oge-sesetrutur  of thr population, end long tle treod.  A fee estimates
Tlhese otanduds      1- ose  tha  th-arof 75 gras  of tstal protein and             arfetntio...  sorce.
23 gonof noialpoensnnere for the oorld, proposed by FAO                           Rcoeolah   L Ps    ec  Patio-   ctico~f popsIiiso  under 19 sod t5 and over to
ho ith  Third World Pc-d Puc-y.                                                     th_abrfoc   insn  group of 15-64 ear..
Per cacits Pro teds oulY fro  an-la   and pulo   - Protein eupply of food
derived fros aniasI  nod puls   n           e  day.                          .   CPl6 DIBThIUJTIX
Chil (ngrs l-41( irtallty  Rbae(rtound- Aon1 deaths per thousnd                       Pretgof PiaeIcm   both in cah and kind) - decived by  iehest
ic age oroip 1-1 ponro, to obihuve theib  ago grouP; for yst devel-         5 M_ont  ihetP  pret, poorest S   eon,sdpoett   eo
00goo,or-    dr  d__oc  fr           i lfe tabio                                      of hou-holdo.
HEALTH                                                                                POVERpTY TARGLT GltOmYs
losbP`ot-Yo nO Bidt  Eyn.tororcre   fyar   flf                                      oiated Ab.olote P-verty boom  Love  (796 per capita) - urban and rura  -
croolin~g al ocrth; 19P  170, nod 1977. dnts.                                         Absolute po-ertp Incom  lee  h  ha          _ ,om   eclhe     bkamIia
infunt  AhreiyR        pctosn)-..Iccn dratbo of infants under ooritio..ai1y ndcqnts diet Plus  tci hlonfodrtienI   o
y-u  of ng  Prr tho-od lIce tints~.-afodbe
dooco to  sfr  otcr(perent  f pouintoc)    tota, orac, od rral      intmateIbeEtlocbonn   Income hoe-11              e o   ia   - ie  med rura  -
eobrocple (toal  urc   and r-ol) s    re-calr  cootobRnt reltive poc-ty  leoe  eelS  one-third of eveag  per capita
..feo-trroupply  inc.ludes  -rrtid surf. nyc   t-  or untreated hot                   peronl 10cr of the   -toy.  rban 1e-e  i  derived from nh  -rura  leve
uo-tlai-tc  enter ouh no tint fro  pr-t-ted horehe-, springs,                         sits sdjostnet for higher oct of living is urban arena
nodo'itay cello) no p-r -tg-i of tbsir respective population,  Di                 Estietd  ~Popu,latio  delo  boolte Povrt  Pnoclvl(.rueI   ro   n
-nubannv   public f-ntnin  or otandpoet booted not are thancr     Preeo  p ltio   uba  nob~ rurael) sic                                               T    por
h- eco   rn     os   ve Ic --niderd -s heig s-thin reaonable
ni hooft  h..luse   I. rura   --eo  rensonbhi  acces   -Id ieply
tItdr -0c -fe or e-el-  of thr house.hold do not love to spend                                                           --Ooooo  nod dooia1 1sis Diehsii
'diiprtcpcrtLoootc part of tics dy in fetching the faily. noator needs                                                 Eoo...ic oA-lyst  and Pr,enio... DPeptieent
August 5971



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS  - LIBERIA
GROSS NATIONAL PROIXDCT IN 1978                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%;1977 CoNSTANT PRICES)
US$ Mln.     _i                                           1974-77            1978
GNP at Market Prices           807.8       100.0                                           2.3             6.7
Gross Domestic Investment      253.0        31.3                                          13.7             6.8
Gross National Saving          101.7        12.6                                          -3.9            -9.2
Current Account Balance       -100.1        12.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          500.1        61.9                                          -6.6             8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          544.6        67.4                                           4.3             9.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                   Labor Force/                   7. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.    _ %'_                           %                    US S%
Agriculture                    283.7      35.0                482.2     70.5                  588.3       49.6
Industry 2/                    168.8      20.8                 30.8      4.5                 5480.5      462.8
Services                       358.5      44.2                 73.8     10.8                 4857.7      410.2
Unallocated                                                    92.2     14.2
Total/Average               810.0     100.0                         100.0                 1184.2      100.0
00VFRNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Government
(_ Hln.)     % Of 0GF                    (US$ Min.)          IOf NW
197       197z       196 -7                 197B-79    197?'       19T4-77
Current Receipts                     ..            ..          ..                    190.8     23.5         22.5
Current Expenditure                                ..          ..                    154.0     19.0         14.4
Current Surplus                      ..            ..          ..                     36.8      4.5          8.1
Capital Expenditures                 ..            ..          ..                    159.5     19 7         14.4
External Assistance (net)            ..            ..          ..                     60.4      9.4          4.0
JMOYI . CRZDIT and PRICES                               974         1975        1976        197T         1978
Tilulion US  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                                    .
Bank credit to Public Sector                           4.0          2.2         0.9            4.7         9.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         72.7         76.8        83.1         109.2        132.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDIP
General Price Index (1963 - 100) 3/
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                    19.5         13.6        6.o          5.8         8.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                             ..        -45.0      -59.1        422.2       100.0
Bank credit to Private Sector                            .-          5.6        8.2         31.4        20.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
I/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Over 80% is accounted for by iron ore.
3/ Consumer Price Index (Sept, Nov. 1964=100)
not available
.hot applicable



- 23 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MEBCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977      1978                                                  US $ Min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         467.1    458.0    500.1                 Iron ore                             292.2   62.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        -443.5   -490.1   -544.6                 Rubber                                60.5   13.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    351       -32.1    -44.5                Diamonds                              22.7    4.9
Logs or Lumber                        29.5    6.3
Interest Payments (net)        -4.7      -6.7    -10.1                 Coffee                               25.0    5.3
Workers' Remittances           -25.0    -27.5    -30.3                 Palm Products                          3.7    0.8
Other Factor Payments (net)  -80.3    -68.0    -48.0                   Cocoa                                  8.2    1.8
Net Transfers                   32.9     30.8      32.8                All other commodities                 13.1    2.8
Balance on Current Account   -45.7   -104.5   -100.1                         Total                         464.9  100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       57,3      8.1    -10.5               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31.19783
Net MLT Borrowing               19.4     38.3      58.3
Disbursements               35.4      52.0      70.0                                                          US $ Hln
Amortization               -14,0    -13.7    -11.7
Subtotal                    52,4    -19.8    -41.8                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               341.5
Capital Grants                  ..        .        .7                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -25,2    -35.3       33.7                Total outstanding & Disbursed               341.5
Other items n.e.i                1,5     51.1       5.8
increase in Reserves (+)    -28.7         4.0       2.3              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978k/
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)       .         ..       ,,                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              6.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Puel and Related Materials    59.5       68.8      84.6                 Total outstanding & Disbursed             67]T
Imports
of which:  Petroleum
Exports
of which:  Petroleum                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (DECEMBER 31,  1978) O(ILLION UsS):
IBiD        IDA.
RATE OF EXCHAINGE
Outstanding & Disbursed                43.8        13.1
Throgh    971                   Since  -  1971                   Undisbursod                            55.9        22.8
US   1.00   1. 00               Us $ 1.00       1.00            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed
1.00  us $                      1.00o= us$
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.                                  August 1979
.   not available
. not applicable



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                            Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                               less cancellation
Number  Year   Borrower               Purpose                 Bank   IDA /a  Undisbursed
Eight loans and two Credits fully disbursed                  26.67   3.8
305   1972   Rep. of Liberia         Education                       7.2        0.00 /b
1055   1974   Liberian Bank for       Second Development
Dev. and Investment   Finance                  4.0               0.24
577   1975   Rep. of Liberia         Agriculture                     6.0       3.37
700   1977   Rep. of Liberia         Agriculture                     7.0       5.59
786   1978   Rep. of Liberia         Rubber Development              6.0       5.81
839   1978   Rep. of Liberia         Forestry                        6.0       5.49
Development
859   1978   Rep. of Liberia         Monrovia Water                  8.0        6.80
supply
1150   1975   Liberia Electric        Third Power             1.8               0.52
Corporation
1156   1975   Rep. of Liberia         Third Road             27.5               9.71
1266-T 1976   Rep. of Liberia         Second Education        4.0                1.65
1323   1976   Liberian Bank for
Dev. and Investment   Third Development        7.0               4.97
Finance
1417   1977   Rep. of Liberia         Education               6.3                5.80
1544   1978   Rep. of Liberia         Rubber Development    7.0                  7.00
1573   1978   Rep. of Liberia         Fourth Highway         13.8              13.13
1600   1978   Liberian Electric       Fourth Power           10.0               5.54
Corporation
t644   1979   Rep. of Liberia         Feeder Roads           10.7              10.70
Total                                        118.77  44.0        86.32
of which has been repaid                    10.14    -
Total now outstanding                        108.63  44.0
Amounts sold                       0.41
of which repaid                  0.41        0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                   108.63  44.0
Total undisbursed                             59.26  27.06      86.32
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   US$4,823.08 remain undisbursed.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1979)
(in US$ million)
Fiscal
Year          Obligor                 Type of Business    Loan  Equity Total
1966           Liberian Bank for       Development
Development and        Finance
Investment             Company                    0.250   0.250
1977           Liberian Bank for       Development
Development and        Finance
Investment             Company                    0.306   0.306
0.556   0.556
Less Sold                                          0.001   0.001
Now Held                                           0.555   0.555



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 305-LBR    First Education Project:  US$7.2 Million Credit of
May 17, 1972; Effective Date: December 18, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
After initial delays in awarding civil works contracts, imple-
mentation has progressed satisfactorily. All project buildings have been
constructed and are in use, although contractors are still at the sites
finishing external works. All technical assistance and fellowship programs
have been completed. It is expected that all civil works and disbursements
will be completed by the closing date of December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1266T-LBR    Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third Window
Loan of June 7, 1976; Effective Date: July 8, 1976;
Closing Date: October 31, 1980
The implementation of most project components continues to improve
after initial delays in civil works due primarily to shortages of construction
materials and unusually long rainy seasons. The extension of the Zorzor
Rural Teacher Training Institute has been completed on schedule and within
appraisal cost estimates. About one-half of the community school units
have also been completed on schedule, although the remaining units will be
completed over the next two years. Most technical assistance specialists have
completed their assignments. The implementation of the fellowship program is
about two years behind schedule, but the pace is improving and about one-half
of the fellowships have been awarded. Most of the project elements have been
completed; the overall project, however, is expected to be completed about two
years behind the original completion date but within appraisal cost estimates.
Loan No. 1417-LBR       Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Construction of the Vocational Training Center (VTC), the Forestry
Training Institute and three of four science centers has begun and furniture
and equipment have been ordered for the VTC. The technical assistance program
is being implemented as planned and the VTC instructors have returned from
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
fellowship training abroad. Overall project implementation, however,, is about
1 year behind schedule due to the poor quality of supervision by the Division
of Education Facilities, the slow pace of the contractor for the VTC and
difficulty in placing fellows. The Government has recently taken measures to
deal with these constraints to project implementation.
Credit No. 577-LBR    Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Million
Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date: May 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completing its third year and progressing satisfac-
torily. Farmer response to the project continues to be good. Swamp rice
target of 500 ha for 1979 is expected to be met while a shortfall is likely
in upland rice production (900 ha to 1,200 ha) mainly because of a lack
of adequate seed. New plantings of coffee are likely to attain 500 ha
(appraisal 500 ha) while those of cocoa are estimated at 450 ha (appraisal
300 ha). Training and schistosomiasis surveillance are proceeding satis-
factorily and the building program is practically complete. The feeder road
program is behind schedule due mainly to the commitment of the Minist:ry of
Public Works to other activities related to the OAU conference. The planning
and evaluation officer is now on post and is preparing a work prograa. The
employment contracts of most expatriate staff have expired this year and have
handed over responsibilities to Liberians on schedule. Government fuLnding and
support for the project has been generally satisfactory.
Credit No. 700-LBR    Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7 Million
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is experiencing initial difficulties and is not likely
to attain its crop development targets this year. Swamp rice is being slowly
developed, but is hampered by the absence of a swamp development officer,
labor shortages and the preference of farmers for farming upland rice. The
Training Unit and Schistosomiasis Surveillance Unit have been set up.
Building construction is proceeding satisfactorily. Greater publicity of
the project is required to increase farmers' response, and the project is
preparing a program for th-is purpose. Organization of Cooperative Siervice
Units is proceeding slowly and the Ministry of Agriculture has suggested
that this activity be coordinated with the office of the Deputy Minister
of Agriculture in charge of cooperatives. Government funding and support
continue to be good, but it is yet to adjust its policy of distributing
free farm inputs in the country. Government is replacing the Project
Manager with a former Lofa Staff member.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Loan No. 1544-LBR
Credit No. 786-LBR    Rubber Development Project:  US$7 Million Loan
and US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978;
Effective Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project started off slower than anticipated at appraisal.
About 250 acres have been rehabilitated against appraisal targets of 500
acres. The replanting program, is delayed because of poor planning by
Project Management. The Project Manager was recently relieved of his
position, and the Government has appointed a temporary replacement. The
development of the nursery is proceeding satisfactorily and an intensive
effort is being made to survey and register potential participants. Staff
and farmer training is expected to commence this year.
Credit No. 839-LBR    Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28, 1978;
Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project includes strengthening the Forestry Development
Authority, establishing a 1,600 ha industrial plantation and technical
assistance, studies and training. Project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1156-LBR      Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The construction of a major bridge and of an urban main road
(5.4 mi) in Monrovia is now complete, and the construction of a rural main
road (83 mi) is almost complete after delays due to bad weather and dif-
ficulties in the supply of materials. The feasibility studies of about 85
miles of main roads and an urban transport study in Monrovia are substantially
completed. A feeder road construction unit became operational in January 1977
and is operating in association with the Lofa County Agricultural Development
Project (577-LBR). Technical assistance in building up the Planning and
Programing Division of the Ministry of Public Works is proving fairly effec-
tive.
Loan No. 1573-LBR      Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project includes reconstruction and Improvement of the
Paynesville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, technical assistance
for road maintenance and preinvestment studies. Reconstruction of the
Paynesville-Robertsfield road financed by the Kuwait fund started in Novem-
ber 1978. Rehabilitation of Paynesville-Totota road is scheduled to start



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
in October 1979. Detailed engineering of Ganta-Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapeta
roads is expected to be completed by April 1980. Contract for the extension
of road maintenance advisory services was signed in January 1979.  Iechnical
assistance positions have been advertised.
Loan No. 1664-LBR      Feeder Roads Project:  US$10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
The project provides for the construction or improvement and main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and for the maintenance of a
further 200 miles of feeder roads. The work will be undertaken by three
brigades operated by the Ministry of Public Works assisted by local con-
tractors. The Loan provides for the purchase of equipment and supplies,
for the construction of workshops and for technical assistance to assist
in planning and executing the works. Project implementation is under way.
Loan No. 1055-LBR      Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective
Date: January 3, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980;
and
Loan No. 1323-LBR      Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective Date:
December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982;
The Loan 1055-LBR helped LDBI meet its financial requirements
through calendar year 1976. LBDI's loan approvals during calendar 1976
surpassed the projected level for the year. Commitments and disbursements
were similarly above targets. Disbursement of Bank funds, in particular,
had been faster than projected. The loan is fully committed and almost
completely disbursed. The Loan 1323-LBR, signed October 7, 1976, together
with loans from the African Development bank and the European Investment
Bank, were expected to have covered LBDI's foreign resource gap for the
period 1977 and through the first half of 1979. However, commitment: of Loan
1323-LBR has been slower than anticipated (by September 1979, 40Z of the loan
had been committed) due to clients' reluctance to accept the foreign exchange
risk on the non-dollar hard currency disbursements.  It is hoped that the
Bank's recent introduction of a new policy for DFCs whereby disbursement would
be half in dollars and half in a basket of other currencies would permit LBDI
to utilize the loan faster.
Loan No. 1150-LBR      Third Power Project:  US$1.8 Million Loan of
August 1, 1975; Effective Date: October 20, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project finances technical assistance for establishing a
long-range development plan and detailed investment program as well as for
strengthening the management of the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC)
and training its staff. LEC's management continues to need externa]L support



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
and the training program needs to be expanded to include practical training
for middle-level staff. The financial performance of the utility has deter-
iorated and remedial measures are being taken to improve LEC's financial
viability, e.g. tariff increases, improved financial control, in connection
with the Fourth Power Project. LEC recently engaged a foreign electric power
utility (TATA Consulting Engineers) to provide a management support team to
replace expatriates who have left at the expiry of their contracts. The LEC
consultants, Chas. T. Main (USA), have completed the pre-feasibility study of
the hydroelectric development of St. Paul River.
Loan No. 1600-LBR      Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective Date: December 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
All contracts for the Bushrod Power Plant extension have been signed and the
contractors have proceeded with their respective work. The civil works con-
tractor has almost completed the task.
Credit No. 859-LBR    Water Supply Project:   US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date:  April 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to assist the Government and the Liberia
Water and Sewer Corporation in expanding Monrovia's water production and dis-
tribution capacity, increasing access to service for the urban poor, improving
LWSC's managerial efficiency, planning capacity and financial viability, pro-
viding a sector study as a basis for a sector development plan and strategy,
and providing effective training opportunities and facilities for LWSC's
Liberian staff. The project is progressing satisfactorily. The expatriate
management assistance personnel are in post, and Liberian counterparts have
been assigned to all five of them. A draft report on the management study has
been completed and is currently under review. The sector study is under way.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
Oil Palm Project
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        1 year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        SODEPAIM under bilateral
assistance from the Goverment
of Ivory Coast.
(c)  Date of first Bank mission to         October 1978
consider the project:
Cd)  Departure of appraisal missiont       January 15, 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:               August 31, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        December 31, 1979
Section II
Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:
Special Conditions
The following special conditions are included in the draft
Loan Agreement:
(a)   Acquisition and transfer by Govermnent of additional 1,500 ha
of land required for the estate by September 30, 1980; and
settlers already cultivating any of the land to be taken over
by the estate to be adequately compensated on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 33);
(b) DOPC to make necessary arrangements for the provision of all
seed requirements for the project by IRHO or other suitable
suppliers (para. 34);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) Smallholders to be selected in accordance with
criteria acceptable to both Government and Bank
(para. 35);
(d)  Land which would be used for anallholder plantations
to be surveyed and demarcated by December 31, 1980
(para. 36);
(e) Settlers already cultivated land where smallholder
plantations are to be locatd will be compensated
according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 36);
(f) Farmers to be paid for ffb on the basis of price
formula satisfactory to the Bank (para. 39);
(g)  Non-project roads to be completed by December 31, 1981
(para. 41);
(h) Acquisition and leasing by Government to DOPC of about
8,350 ha of land required for the nucleus estate (condi-
tion of effectiveness, paras. 33 and 58);
(i) Conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
for making available to DOPC the proceeds of ADB and
CDC loans (condition of effectiveness, para. 47);
(j) Signing of DOPC managenent contract (condition of
effectiveness, para. 49); and
(k) Government to deposit an amount of not less than
US$0.9 million into DOPC's account to facilitate DOPC's
project start-up activities (condition of effectiveness,
para. 58).



IBRD2 14275
,~~   7  ~ ~ ~ j  030  ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    uo                                 740 ~~~LIBE RIA
I S..kehnI                                                                                                                       DECORIS OIL PALM PROJECT
1                       ,                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moir access roads:
-L-AMRLAND' CYUT
20                                                    /,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. To be resurfaced
To be constructed
'7  New E                                                                                                                                                              Feeder roeds:
ke                                                                                                                                               Existing-
-4'40'                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To be resurfoced
4'dC'  \.                                                        . Henegow                    Tugloo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bke .e  To be upgraded
To be constructed
__            /                    ~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~740 ho\  (    j155 ho..                                                                   Nucleus estate boundary-
~~~                 Rowo~_  8.he    Si                                                                        -                                             melheder area boandairies
L  1Enlarged estates
~~~~~~~~1i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2 
10                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,vers or creeks
337 hour                                                                                                 -   -                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Towns or settlements
r              2              1930 H
7  T~~~~~~~~~) T J~~~~~~~~  <         I  ~~~~FIRETI                  PLNTATIO
210  (7                                                                                                                                                                                          07--~~~~~~'\ 50h
450 1,.~~~~~~~~~~I,~~~0O 
Wil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie
'4C,eek  Wochun .~<                 ots,roeenossroffeK  & I . -t-
r.k.                                              4-30Ooo707o75f777ad7,7
h0 ,lnec,,as7e
C-k  h k~~~~~~~~~~~fe07set,ssOa.7,
h --i.,ssow  hn -d- 73
doh.t.-.e7 ,71,7
II        17 35         I   I 
90 At/anh/c   OceanSIRA I
4'25'                                                                                                                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'5
L I BE RIA             IVORY
Rock                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COAST
~~~~~~~~Id~~~~~~~~~~~~~
50                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30                            4
I  I  I   I  I  I  I   I  I  (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  ~~~~~~,45  1  I     I        I        t  40        tp  H                                         rp



