OFFICIAL      LOAN NUMBER 1765 LBR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Decoris Oil Pals Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated   ~$eL              Q/1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1765 LBR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         k i-    2/ , 1979, between REPUBLIC
OF LIBERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts G and H of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower and the remaining Parts of the Project by Decoris Oil
Palm Company (hereinafter called DOPC) with the Borrower's
assistance;
(C) as part of such assistance, the Borrower will relend
to DOPC out of the proceeds of the Loan an amount equivalent to
$7,700,000 as hereinafter provided;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from Commonwealth
Development Corporation a loan (hereinafter called the CDC Loan)
in an amount in pounds sterling approximately equivalent to
fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the CDC Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation;
(E) the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Devel-
opment Bank a loan (hereinafter called the ADB Loan) in an
amount equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and the African Develop-
ment Bank; and
(F) the Borrower has requested from the Special Action
Account established with funds contributed by the Member States of
the European Economic Community additional assistance towards
the financing of part of the Project and by an agreement (herein-
after called the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the International Development
Association as Administrator (and hereinafter called the Adminis-
trator) of the Special Action Account, the Administrator is


﻿-2-
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to approximately two million dollars
($2,000,000) (hereinafter called the EEC Special Action Credit);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, the Adminis-
trator and DOPC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank, IDA, as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account
and DOPC, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and DOPC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement and Section 3.01 (c) of the
Special Action Credit Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement;
(c) "DOPC" means the Decoris Oil Palm Company, a company
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(d) "Parts of the Project" means with respect to DOPC
all Parts of the Project except Parts G and H;
(e) "Project Area" means the area located in Maryland
County of Liberia bounded on the north and south by latitudes
40 45'N and 40 29'N and on the east and west by longitudes
70 4'W and 80 O'W and shall include such other area or areas
as the Borrower may, with the Bank's agreement, determine;
(f) "Subsidiary" means any company of which the majority
of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is owned or effectively controlled by DOPC and/or by any one
or more subsidiaries of DOPC; and
(g) "IRHO" means Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et
016agineux.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7-95%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts G and
H of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with appropriate administrative, financial and agricultural
practices.
(b) The Borrower shall cause DOPC to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable DOPC to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. The
Borrower shall in particular include in its budgets funds suffi-
cient to cover the estimates of expenditure approved for the
Project by DOPC's Board and shall provide DOPC with the funds it
shall require for the Project.
(c) Without restriction or limitation on the Borrower's
obligations under the foregoing paragraphs of this Section, the
Borrower shall on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank: (i) contribute to DOPC's equity a total amount of about
twenty-five million three hundred thousand dollars equivalent
($25,300,000) in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as
such schedule may be amended from time to time; (ii) cause to
be provided to DOPC an amount equivalent to three million dollars
($3,000,000) or such funds as DOPC shall require to bring all
plantings to maturity and the oil mill into operation; and (iii)
make available to DOPC the proceeds of the CDC Loan, ADB Loan and
EEC Special Action Credit.


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall relend seven million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($7,700,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan to
DOPC under a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DOPC, under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank including repayment of principal in 17 years, interest
at not less than 10% per annum and 8 years of grace during which
interest shall be capitalized. The said interest rate shall be
reviewed annually by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank
with a view to maintaining an adequate rate of interest.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part H of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications and experience and terms and conditions
of employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly furnish the Bank for its
review with the results of the study included in Part H of the
Project. The carrying out by the Borrower of any recommendations
of such study shall be in agreement with the Bank.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in monitoring the
financial and technical progress of the Project, and evaluating
its economic impact as well as establishing the data base for a
follow-up project, the Borrower shall employ an agricultural
economist whose qualifications and experience and terms and
conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, assurance satisfac-
tory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall no later than September 30, 1980
acquire and transfer to DOPC for a term of not less than 50
years additional land which DOPC will require to establish 5,000
hectares of plantations for the nucleus estate of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
compensate settlers now occupying land to be made available for
the nucleus estate and smallholder block plantation. Criteria for
determining compensation shall be satisfactory to the Bank and
shall inter alia include provisions for cash payments for struc-
tures and value of crops, land of comparable size and quality, as
well as community facilities in the areas of resettlement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1980 carry out soil surveys on about 5,500 hectares of
land in villages adjacent to the nucleus estate, and shall
demarcate and earmark suitable portions of that land for the
establishment of the 2,500 hectares smallholder block plantations
of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the roads included
in Part D of the Project (other than roads on the nucleus estate
and feeder roads on smallholder plantations) to be adequately
maintained in accordance with sound engineering practices and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and
services required for the purpose.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) construct, no later
than December 31, 1981, about 35 km of feeder roads linking
smallholder plantations to the nucleus estate; (ii) rehabilitate
about 9 km of the Fishtown-Harper road and resurface about 5 km of
the Plebo-Harper road; and (iii) provide for the purpose funds
presently estimated to be at least $900,000 and such other facili-
ties and services as shall be required.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall no later than January 1,
1985 establish and thereafter maintain in a form and with func-
tions and membership satisfactory to the Bank an oil palm pricing
committee to determine producer prices to be paid by DOPC to
smallholders for fresh fruit bunches. The members of the commit-
tee shall include representatives of the ministries of Agricul-
ture, Commerce, Finance, Planning and of DOPC and smallholders.
The committee shall jointly with representatives of the Borrower,


﻿-7-
DOPC and smallholders and using the results of the oil palm
pricing policy study of the Project, establish a pricing formula
for smallholder fresh fruit bunches, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section. 3.08. The Borrower shall, from time to time, consult
with the Bank about the future need of management services to be
provided by an international firm or organization, and unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall cause DOPC to maintain the
agreement referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement
or, in the event that said agreement is terminated, to enter into
an agreement with another international firm under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.


﻿(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part H of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out that Part of the Project or any part
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) DOPC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Articles of Incor-
poration and By-laws of DOPC which would materially and    adver-
sely affect the operations or the financial condition of DOPC;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of DOPC;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that DOPC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DOPC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(f) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) below:


﻿-9-
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan, ADB Loan and
EEC Special Action Credit shall have been
suspended, cancelled or   terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) above shall not apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) above shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and
DOPC; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b), (c), (e) or
(f) (i) (A) of Section 5.01 above shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and DOPC, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action;


﻿- 10 -
(b) conclusion of arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
making available to DOPC the proceeds of the CDC Loan and ADB
Loan;
(c) the signing of the management agreement referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement;
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDC Loan Agreement, ADB Loan Agreement and EEC Special Action
Credit Agreement other than the effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment shall have been fulfilled;
(e) the Borrower shall have deposited an amount of not
less than $900,000 into the DOPC Bank account; and
(f) the Borrower shall have acquired and leased to DOPC
for a period of not less than 50 years the 8,350 hectares for the
nucleus estate under the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by DOPC, and is legally binding upon DOPC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and DOPC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and DOPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date /ei./* -  Ju       is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Monrovia
Liberia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINIFIN                            4221
Monrovia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
By1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
A' 'Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Seeds, polybags,               2,900,000       100% of foreign
fertilizers, tools                            expenditures
and materials                                 for directly
imported items
or 80% of local
expenditures
if procured
locally
(2) Palm oil mill                  4,800,000       50% of foreign
expenditures
(3) Barge and port                 1,300,000       100% of foreign
installations                                 expenditures
(4) Roads                            900,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
for directly
imported items
or 80% of local
expenditures
if procured
locally
(5) Consultants'                   1,100,000       100% of foreign
services and                                  expenditures or
technical assistance                          80% of local
expenditures
(6) Unallocated                    1,000,000
TOTAL         12,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 14 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project which is designed to assist the Borrower in
the generation of oil palm export earnings and provision of
employment and incomes for rural families living in the Project
Area consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) Establishment and operation of an oil palm nucleus
estate Plantation of about 5,000 hectares.
(2) (a) Development of smallholder oil palm block planta-
tions totalling about 2,500 hectares.
(b) Provision of grants and credits and technical
services to smallholders for the development of
their block plantations.
(3) Establishment of a fruit collection system for the
nucleus estate and smallholder block plantations.
Part B:
Training of DOPC's Liberian staff and of smallhold:rs,
including on-the-job training and training abroad for DOPC's
staff.
Part C:
Construction of an oil mill with a processing capacity of
30 tons of fresh fruit bunches per hour including a maintenance
workshop for the mill.
Part D:
Construction within the nucleus estate and smallholder
block plantations of about 350 km of collector trecks including
supporting culverts and bridges and about 93 km of feeder roads,
construction within the nucleus estate of about 27 km of main
access roads, and construction between the nucleus estate and the
Fishtown - Harper road of about 6 km of main access road.


﻿- 16 -
Part E:
Construction and installation of storage and port facilities
at Harper to facilitate loading to mainline vessels and shipping,
including an oil palm storage depot, a pumping boiler room,
a weighbridge capable of handling trucks of 20 tons capacity,
two mooring dolphins and procurement of a 500 ton barge fitted
with two diesel palm oil pumps.
Part F:
(1) Provision of about 55 man-months of consultants' ser-
vices for preparation of preliminary designs of the
palm oil mill, preparation of tender documents, analysis
of tenders, supervision of mill construction, design and
supervision of construction of port facilities at
Harper.
(2) Provision of about 12 man-months of consultants' ser-
vices for design and supervision of access and feeder
roads of the Project.
(3) Provision of about 6 man-months of consultants' services
for the preparation of a follow-up oil palm project.
Part G:
Rehabilitation and resurfacing of about 14 km of main access
roads, construction of about 35 km of feeder roads (between the
nucleus estate and smallholder block plantations) including
supporting culverts and bridges.
Part H:
Provision of about 16 man-months of consultants' services for
a review of the oil palm industry in Liberia; a study to develop a
pricing formula for smallholders' fresh fruit bunches; and 3
man-years of technical assistance for strengthening the monitoring
and evaluation unit of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1985
and ending August 15, 1999                 400,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentagc-s are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.20%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                              2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.35%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen. years
before maturity                              6.35%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.15%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.95%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Equity Contrioutions in DOPC
(expressed in millions of dollars)
From EEC
From the                                   Special
Fiscal Borrower's   From the   From CDC  From ADB  Action
Years   Resources   Bank Loan    Loan      Loan     Credit   Total
1981        0.5        0.4        0.4       0.2     0.7       2.2
1982        1.1        0.3        0.7       0.4      1.3      3.8
1983        1.1        0.4        0.5       0.4        -      2.4
1984        2.6        0.8        1.0       0.6        -      5.0
1985        4.2        1.3        1.7       0.9        -      8.1
1986        2.0        0.7        0.6        -         -      3.3
1987        0.3        0.1        0.1        -         -      0.5
TOTAL 11.8         4.0        5.0       2.5      2.0     25.3


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank fir Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this l    t day of I   e_ . , 197.
FOR SECRETARY


