                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29170

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (SCL-40540)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                                          IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                           US$86.9 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                     STRATEGIC URBAN ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                              June 30, 2005




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective May 31, 2003)

                                      Currency Unit = Rupiah
                                 1,000,000 Rupiah = US$ 121.58
                                             US$ 1 = 8225.0 Rupiah

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1    December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB         Asian Development Bank
AMDAL       Environmental Impact Assessment (Process)
BAPPENAS    National Development Planning Agency
BINKOT      Directorate of Urban Road Development
DLLAJ       Road Traffic and Transport Unit
EA          Environmental Assessment
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
GOI         Government of Indonesia
IWG         Interministerial Working Group
Jabotabek   Jakarta Metropolitan Area (Jakarta, Bogor, Tangerang, Bekasi)
JBIC        Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
Kabupaten   Regency/District (Level II local government
Kotamadya   Incorporated municipality (Level II local government)
KPI         Key Performance Indicator
Krismon     Indonesia Term for the Financial Crisis of the late 1990s
MPW         Ministry of Public Works
PAP         Project Affected Person
PHRD        Population and Human Resource Development Grant (from the Japanese Government)
Perda       Decree
PDO         Project Development Objective
PMU         Project Management Unit
QLI         Quality of Life Improvements
REPELITA    Five Year Development Plan
ROW         Right of way
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SESIM       Strengthening of Environmental and Social Impact Management
SURIP       Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project
TA          Technical Assistance
TKI, II     Provincial level, local level
URMS        Urban Road Management System


                                     Vice President:     Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                                 Country Director:       Mr. Andrew Steer, EACIF
                                   Sector Director:      Mr. Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
                               Task Team Leader:         Mr. Edward Dotson, EASTR

                                            INDONESIA
                           Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
   6. Sustainability                                                                13
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
   9. Partner Comments                                                              18
   10. Additional Information                                                       20
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34
   Annex 8. ICR Workshop Summaries                                                  35
   Annex 9. Resettlement Experience                                                 42
MAP
     IBRD No. 27993

Project ID: P004016                                                  Project Name: Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure
                                                                     project
Team Leader: Edward Dotson                                           TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure project             L/C/TF Number: SCL-40540
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (81%); Sub-national government
                            administration (17%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Other urban
                            development (S); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/01/1995                                     Effective: 11/11/1996                11/11/1996
     Appraisal: 09/14/1995                                         MTR: 02/29/2000                  02/29/2000
      Approval: 06/25/1996                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 05/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:             Edward Dotson                                  Edward Dotson
ICR Primary Author:             Hugh Brown


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (SURIP: Loan No. 4054-IND) was identified in 1994 in
response to Government concerns that development of the urban sections of the national road network were
not being given sufficient attention in Integrated Urban Development Plans (IUIDP) being prepared at the
time for urban areas. SURIP was conceived as the first in a series of projects, to cover the North Java
Corridor and regions outside Java (primarily Sumatra). The basic scope was the construction or
improvement of bypass routes for urban areas along the North Java Corridor. SURIP was intended to
compliment improvements on the interurban sections being undertaken in concurrent Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and Japanese Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) projects. The section of the corridor
in the Province of Central Java was selected as the main geographical focus as having the most acute
congestion problems and because of the preparedness for, and commitment to the project by provincial
level agencies.

The design of SURIP supported the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1995 and the Bank's
Country Study, Indonesia Environment and Development of July 1994 (Report No: 12083-IND). The CAS
highlighted the importance of managing infrastructure so as to support private sector development and
competitiveness, strengthen capacities at all levels of government, and facilitate the decentralization of
responsibilities. The Country Study stressed that reducing the rate of growth of congestion and the
numbers of vehicles in key urban areas was critical for efficiency and for protecting the health and welfare
of the urban population.

The original five objectives of the Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project (SURIP: Ln. 4054-IND) as
stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were thus to: (a) reduce traffic bottlenecks on the national road
network in selected urban areas in the North Java corridor; (b) address the environmental and social issues
associated with the use of the national road network; (c) assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in the
process of decentralization of responsibility for urban transport; (d) strengthen capabilities of GOI's central
and local government agencies involved in urban road development and management; and (e) assist GOI in
the articulation and implementation of an urban transport policy.

Assessment of Objectives. The objectives reflected the Bank's urban sector experience in Indonesia,
which confirmed that the size and complexity of urban road and transport problems were best addressed by
sectoral projects within the framework of integrated plans for infrastructure and urban development. The
project design also took into account the Bank's sectoral approach to urban transport, which was to
provide assistance through an integrated package of policy, institutional and infrastructure initiatives.

The objectives were clear, except that (b) was perhaps a little broad and should have stated "address the
environmental and social issues associated with the construction of urban links in the national road
network." The project was not particularly demanding for the implementing agency or risky, but was
complex in introducing urban transport objectives (c) and (e) into what was otherwise an urban road
development project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of SURIP were not revised, despite the addition of a major maintenance component in
response to the financial crisis which occurred in Indonesia from late 1997 to mid 2002. The financial
crisis did not alter the underlying needs for increased road capacity. In hindsight, it was an oversight not to



                                                      - 2 -

have added an objective related to road maintenance when this new component was included in the project,

3.3 Original Components:

The original five project components were: a) road construction (seven schemes; US$132 million); b)
urban road management and quality of life improvements (QLI) (four activities; US$32.3 million); c)
institutional and human resources development (two subcomponents; US$2.0 million); d) GOI urban road
program development (one subcomponent US$0.6 million); and e) policy articulation and implementation
(two subcomponents; US$0.6 million).

In general, each of the components (a) to (e) was designed to achieve the corresponding objective (a) to (e).
The design took into account the lessons from previous urban road projects in Indonesia, which showed
that the implementing agency had the capability to complete civil works successfully, but no capacity for
longer term planning ­ hence component (d). No capacity existed at the local level for transport planning,
formulating road programs and traffic management. The ascribed cause was the delay in enacting enabling
regulations for devolution of responsibilities for these activities from central to local government. These
enabling regulations were in place by the start of SURIP. The project therefore included components (b),
(c) and (e) to make a start on providing this capacity. (However as was discovered during implementation,
the availability of regulations only facilitated devolution of responsibilities. Local governments had to take
other administrative steps before they would accept responsibility for these activities). Limited urban
transport policy development and implementation was another lesson learned which the project sought to
address through component (c).

3.4 Revised Components:

The difficulties that arose during the monetary crisis resulted in the need to make a number of revisions to
the project components.

Component A - Road construction. A number of amendments was made to the scope of the schemes, as
follows (see Table 1 of Section 10).

New Component F - Road maintenance. Due to the crisis, no government funds were available to
maintain deteriorating local (Kabupaten and Kota) roads on Java. At the request of GOI, the legal
agreements were amended in December 1998 to provide for routine and periodic maintenance, including
labor-intensive maintenance works in Central Java, DI Yogyakarta, DKI Jakarta, and West Java. Periodic
maintenance works in excess of Rp 2,000,000 and labor-intensive routine maintenance works not exceeding
Rp 2,000,000 were provided for in a new Component F, which incorporated 355 separate contracts to
maintain 837 km of roads.

The schemes included were those that were already in the priority maintenance programs of the different
local governments and had already been approved by GOI for funding. Bank funding simply replaced
funding that would normally have been provided by central government, but could not be provided due to
the financial crisis. The key performance indicators were not modified with the introduction of this
component. An appropriate indicator would have been a measure of roads in various maintenance
conditions. The impact of the project investment was to reduce the length of local roads in the poorest
condition.

Reduction of Component B1. Expenditures on road maintenance were funded by a major reduction in the
funds allocated to Component B1. The scope of this sub-component was only loosely defined at appraisal



                                                      - 3 -

as traffic calming and traffic management measures to encourage traffic to use the bypasses and improve
the "quality of life" in the urban centers previously suffering from through traffic. As the schemes were
firmed up, it became apparent that they would require far less than the US$11.8 million Loan allocation.

Component D. Due to lack of funds for future schemes, the output of component D ­ an evaluated
five-year road investment program, was revised. The revised component provided for the Phase 1 roll out
and beta testing in a further ten cities of the Urban Road Management System (URMS) maintenance
management module, which had been previously developed under the Bank's Highway Sector Project. This
revised output strengthened capabilities in road management rather than road development.

Component E. Under decentralization, formulation and implementation of urban transport policy became
a local government responsibility. In order to respond to this change, the second stage output of the
component was revised to focus on policies to assist the local government of Bandung to restructure bus
services. This was partially funded by the same Japanese Population and Human Resource Development
(PHRD) Grant that funded the first stage study, with the balance funded from the SURIP Loan.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group did not review the project at appraisal. Quality at entry is rated as
satisfactory because:

        (i)        The project objectives supported the Government's strategies, the CAS, and previous Bank
        interventions in the urban transport sector.
        (ii)       There was full compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies for environmental
        assessment (EA) and involuntary resettlement. The project was placed in safeguard category A as a
        number of the road schemes required involuntary resettlement and road construction on new
        alignments, with attendant environmental impacts (noise, fumes). The EA was adequate in
        identifying sensitive receptors close to the proposed roads (such as schools and community health
        clinics), but less adequate in identifying severance of footpaths and bicycle tracks. As a result,
        supplementary work to identify and make provision for these paths was required during
        implementation.
        (iii)      The project was technically appropriate and considered technically sound at appraisal
        using the approach in use at the time for checking engineering designs. Alternatives were considered
        and the economic rationale was robust. The implementing agency had considerable institutional and
        staff experience in undertaking Bank funded projects, and consequently the engineering designs for
        the first two years of implementation were ready at appraisal. Unfortunately construction problems
        that emerged during implementation (see lessons learned) showed that the quality of detailed
        engineering design at entry was not as good as assumed. Difficulties in controlling frontage access
        to the roads suggest that the alternative of building frontage roads in addition to enacting regulations
        should have been pursued during preparation.
        (iv)       Financial management and procurement arrangements met the Bank's requirements.
        (v)        The key performance indicators (KPI) were measurable and directly the result of
        investment and/or actions within the project. The values to be assigned for rating outcomes were
        specified. This assisted later assessment but did not capture the full range of outcomes, especially
        for environmental and social outcomes. No values were given for rating output indicators, which
        caused considerable difficulty in later assessment for this ICR.
        (vi)       The risks identified were largely those related to technical issues. The bigger risks of the
        ensuing financial and political crises were not foreseeable at the time of appraisal.




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project is rated as satisfactory overall, even though achievement of two of the five objectives is
deemed unsatisfactory. The major objective of the project - to reduce traffic bottlenecks essential to the
promotion of economic development - was achieved without adverse environmental or social consequences,
while the capabilities of central agencies involved in urban road development were strengthened. The
outcomes of the other objectives were unsatisfactory, despite satisfactory outputs from the studies for these
activities, largely due to institutional factors beyond the control of the project managers.

Reduce traffic bottlenecks on the national road network in selected urban areas in the North Java
corridor. Achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. Of the seven towns for which four lane
bypasses were proposed, four bypasses were completed as planned, two were revised, and one was not
constructed. The six completed bypasses are estimated to attract over 80% of through traffic and to operate
without congestion over at least 80% of their lengths.

Address the environmental and social issues associated with the use of the national road network.
Achievement is rated satisfactory. This objective was included to ensure that the road designers did not
simply confine themselves to highway design issues, but considered broader environmental and social
issues as well. The KPI, impact on Project Affected Person (PAP), was clear, measurable and directly
managed through the project. No PAP was made worse off by activities of the project. However
achievement of this objective also included a range of other items that were difficult to define as KPI. The
project contributed to the formulation of guidelines for formulation and implementation of resettlement
plans and Environmental Management Plans (EMP), which are now in everyday use by the implementing
agency in the design and implementation of road schemes.

Assist GOI in the process of decentralization of responsibility for urban transport. Achievement is
rated unsatisfactory. Local government traffic management units (Dinas Lalu Lintas Anka Jalan Tinkat II
- DLLAJ TkII) in Cirebon, West Java were established and staffed before the project, and training was
successfully provided. In the project cities in Central Java, the DLLAJ were formally established before
the technical assistance for staff training was launched, but the organizational arrangements and staffing
took longer to complete than anticipated by central government. These units did not become operational
until 2001/2002, too late to participate in SURIP in a meaningful way.

Strengthen capabilities of GOI's central and local government agencies involved in urban road
development and management. Achievement is rated satisfactory. The target of full integration (or
mainstreaming) of environmental assessment, management, and monitoring into project planning and design
was achieved for road schemes, despite changes in the institutional arrangements in the executing agency.

Assist GOI in the articulation and implementation of an urban transport policy. Achievement is rated
unsatisfactory. A Draft Urban Transport Policy Statement was prepared by Consultants in 1999.
However, the Draft Statement was not endorsed by BAPPENAS or the Interministerial Working Group
(IWG) and therefore did not become established as a component of GOI policy. Further, with the major
changes in government, the five-year forward planning program (REPELITA VII) was replaced and not
continued.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A comparison of the actual outputs by component compared with the target outputs set out in the SAR is


                                                      - 5 -

presented below and summarized in Annex 1. The overall project output is rated as satisfactory, even
though the outputs from three subcomponents are rated as unsatisfactory.

Component A: Road construction. This component is rated satisfactory. Section 1 of Semarang by Pass
was completed as designed. Due to land subsidence, the area of Section 2 was increasingly subject to
flooding. Soft ground conditions (met elsewhere along the corridor) limited the potential for embankment
construction, and so the section was built on a viaduct as an elevated road. This improved traffic flow by
taking bypass traffic over the at grade railway and road crossings into the port.

Demak bypass was designed as a dual two lane carriageway. Due to the shortage of funds, the lengths of
road between bridges and junctions were built as a single two lane carriageway.

The Pemalang bypass was designed and scheduled to be constructed in the later years of the project. As a
result of the financial crisis it was decided to delay the start of construction. The surface was overlayed to
ensure that the existing road would continue to provide for high traffic volumes without drops in operating
speeds until the bypass was built.

Section 2 of the Cirebon bypass crosses two main rail lines. At the time of appraisal, the railway company
(PT Kereta) had recently introduced a policy that all new and widened railway crossings should be grade
separated. Various options were considered, including moving the two tracks closer together to reduce the
cost of bridging them, but a cost effective road grade separated design acceptable to the to rail and road
agencies could not be found. As the only feasible option appeared to be to retain the existing road and rail
alignments, the decision was made that a flyover should be built to reduce traffic delays and achieve the
Project Development Objectives (PDO).

It is estimated that the costs for comparable individual subprojects varied by ­63% to +30% from the costs
originally estimated in the SAR (in 1996 prices), with the overall cost difference being about an 8.6%
increase. The most significant increase was due to the decision to build the flyover across two major rail
lines in Cirebon bypass Section 2, rather than upgrade the existing at-grade crossing as envisaged at
appraisal.

Component B: Quality of life improvements. Assessment. Overall, this component is rated satisfactory.
The rating is based on a combined assessment of the outputs of the three subcomponents. The highly
satisfactory result obtained for the QLI works has been tempered by the unsatisfactory ratings for the
structure plan review and Right of Way (ROW) protection, on the basis that the outputs from these
subcomponents failed to reach a satisfactory rating by only a small margin.

B1:       Traffic and Environmental management plan (including civil works) for seven towns. This
sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. The original loan allocated US$11.8 million (1996 prices) for
this subcomponent, but without a detailed scope of works. As noted earlier, due to the financial crisis, the
allocation was greatly reduced. The actual expenditure under the loan was US$ 3.2 million.

Packages in individual towns comprised traffic management works for channelization of junctions, provision
of better road lanes for becaks (cycle rickshaws), and other measures to improve road safety - to reduce
traffic speeds and calm traffic flow - thereby offering the potential for reduced noise and air pollution.
Pedestrian facilities were improved, including widening and resurfacing of footpaths, additional pedestrian
crossings and more waiting areas at bus stops, which were also provided with shelters. Landscaping was
provided to create shade and attractive areas for people to sit. Drainage improvements were also provided to
ensure adequate road drainage and to reduce localized flooding. Improvements were made to the layouts of


                                                        - 6 -

parking areas adjacent to markets so the space was used more effectively. The output represented a change
in function from a major road where ensuring the efficient passage of through traffic was the primary
objective to a more visually pleasant pedestrian friendly environment where catering for non-motorized and
local traffic movements was the prime objective. Surveys taken shortly after the initial schemes were
completed showed that traffic flow and noise levels had fallen. However it was too early to have any
definitive data on traffic accidents.

The subcomponent is rated as highly satisfactory because of the high technical quality of the output and high
level of local ownership and commitment. The approach taken to the preparation of the component
engendered this local ownership. The scope of works was only loosely defined, and local governments were
invited to participate in forums where they assisted in the design of the component within the basic
framework outlined by the Project Management Unit (PMU). All activities were conducted by Indonesian
Bank, PMU, and local government staff and in Bahasa Indonesia. Some limits were placed on the extent of
road works that could be financed, but otherwise local governments were free to design the schemes that
they felt best met local conditions. All procurement, plan preparation, design, construction and supervision
was done by local government staff from the cities and using Indonesian consultants and contractors.

B2:        Structure plan review for seven project towns. This subcomponent is rated unsatisfactory.
Reviews of local government's urban structure plans were carried out satisfactorily, and recommendations
were made on how the local structure plans and Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Plans (IUIDP)
should be updated, to take account of the new bypasses. Structure plan revisions normally occur on a
five-year cycle. During the period of the project only the Kotamadya Cirebon Structure Plan was revised,
while Cirebon already had a bypass (2 lanes) included in the Structure Plan. To merit a satisfactory rating,
structure plans for all seven towns should have been revised.

B3:        ROW for seven road schemes protected. Overall, this subcomponent is rated unsatisfactory.
The output from this subcomponent was based on two separate activities:

i.         Local Government regulation (Perda) for individual sub projects by the opening date of road.
The regulations were intended to limit direct access to the bypasses. They were prepared and enacted in all
cities. However the regulations have not been enforced, except in Kaliwungu, for two main reasons. First,
limited access to toll roads is a new concept. Traditionally everyone felt that roads were provided by the
government for the people, so they had rights to direct access. This was the argument used by the Mayors of
Demak and Kudus in refusing to enforce regulations signed by their predecessors. Second, much of the
initial land acquisition by the local government for the bypass alignment was done without cash
compensation, on the understanding that the adjacent land owners would reap benefits from the construction
of the road. Direct access was seen by the land owners as one of the benefits. Thus local government staff
remain reluctant to rigorously enforce the regulations.

ii.        Land Use plans showing acceptable location for development alongside (bypass) road prepared
by opening date. Proposals that included details of acceptable locations for development were prepared.
However, to be capable of implementation and enforcement, these proposals needed to be included in the
urban structure plans when they were next revised. This did not happen. Thus while the technical work was
completed satisfactorily, the ROW is not being protected in all seven towns, so the output is rated as
unsatisfactory.

Component C. Institutional and human resource development. The rating of satisfactory is based on an
assessment of the combined outputs of the two subcomponents. While neither achieved the output indicators
set out at appraisal, institutional development was achieved in both subcomponents. In this assessment,


                                                      - 7 -

institutional development in the central government agencies for mainstreaming of environmental assessment
(subcomponent C2) is considered to have greater development impact than institutional development of local
government agencies dealing with traffic management (subcomponent C1).

C1: Strengthening of DLLAJ in participating local governments. The output of the subcomponent is
rated as unsatisfactory, as the specific achievement target set out in the SAR could not be met. For the
institutional reasons noted earlier, except in Cirebon, staff in local government traffic management units
were not appointed and so could not be trained.

C2: Strengthening BINKOT AMDAL Section. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. The output set
out in the SAR for this subcomponent was TA for Strengthening of Environmental and Social Impact
Management (SESIM) to permit the Environmental Impact Assessment (AMDAL) section in the Directorate
of Urban Road Development (BINKOT) to take a lead role in environmental management and monitoring of
sub projects. In 2000, after consultants for the TA had been selected, the Directorate General of Highways
(Bina Marga) of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) was restructured, and a new Directorate General of
Urban and Rural Development (DGURD) took over the functions of the previous Binkot, but did not retain
the Environmental section. Therefore the SESIM TA prepared environmental guidelines and operational
procedures for road construction and operations management, a training manual, and a Bahasa Indonesia
translation of the World Bank's "Road and Environmental Handbook". These documents and backup
information have been published in book and digital form (CDROM) and provided to all local governments.
SESIM also trained 25 trainers who trained 105 others.

Although DGURD does not have a separate Environmental section, the overall results remain positive. The
underlying objective of strengthening BINKOT AMDAL section ­ mainstreaming of Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) into the urban road design process ­ has been achieved. Environmental awareness has
increased throughout DGURD and the companion Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure (DGRI),
and DGRI Environmental staff provide training in environmental management to DGURD staff. The tools
to enable high quality EIA to be undertaken have been prepared and disseminated. In effect, EIA has been
contracted out so that consultants rather than the staff of DGURD take the lead role in the preparation of the
environmental aspects of projects. Overall, the SESIM TA made a strong contribution to capacity building
and professional development within the client organization. For this reason the output of the subcomponent
is rated as satisfactory.

Component D. Urban Road Program Development. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory, because t
he consultants' work and the URMS output from the revised component were satisfactory, and the system is
ready for implementation in cities. However, the recommendation that a Core Unit be established to support
the promulgation of URMS, maintain and support the software, and provide training in its application, has
so far not been acted upon. While this so far has prevented further implementation of the system, it does not
detract from the quality of the output produced.

Component E: Urban transport policy articulation and implementation. The rating of unsatisfactory
is based on an assessment of the combined outputs of the two subcomponents. As subcomponent E1 related
to overall policy, the unsatisfactory output for this subcomponent is assessed to outweigh the satisfactory
rating for component E2 which concerned only technical guidelines.

Component E1: Urban Transport Policy and Programs. This subcomponent is rated unsatisfactory. A
Draft Urban Transport Policy statement was prepared in May 1999 by consultants funded through a
Japanese PHRD grant. While the report was "accepted" by the IWG, the recommendations were not



                                                       - 8 -

endorsed, so the output must be judged as less than satisfactory. The second stage work reviewed public
transport policy and the structure of the bus industry, and suggested regulations and guidelines to assist local
government in restructuring bus services in the Bandung Metropolitan area. Detailed regulations were
prepared for major revisions to bus service delivery. At a technical level, while the output was generally
satisfactory, and the results of this work were accepted by Bandung municipality, they have yet to be
implemented. The assessment that the output is unsatisfactory is based largely on the inability of either
study to develop implementable recommendations. (In contrast to component D, where the output is
implementable).

Component E2: BINKOT Guidelines. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Standards and
Guidelines for Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering Design were prepared by end 1999. The work
was performed to a satisfactory standard, and the standards and guidelines are ready for use. The revisions
to the Ministerial structure in 1999 did not provide a suitable unit with responsibility for the continued
development of such Standards and Guidelines. As no follow on to SURIP (or other urban road project) has
been identified, little use appears to have yet been made of the guidelines prepared. However, this does not
detract from the quality of output produced.

Component F: Maintenance. This subcomponent is rated highly satisfactory, as the inclusion of this work
had a significant impact on the condition of the road network, many sections of which were in a severe state
of disrepair. The project carried out work on 837 Km of road in 355 maintenance contracts, using over
US$14.06 million of loan funds. Of this total, there were 117 periodic maintenance contract packages for a
value of US$10.01 million, and 238 labor intensive maintenance packages for a contract value of US$4.05
million.

 4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

 The post construction economic appraisal of the various by pass schemes was undertaken using the same
 methodology used at appraisal.

 Traffic surveys of the national and urban bypass roads for the SURIP subprojects were undertaken in
 2003, and compared with 2003 traffic forecasts from the SURIP economic evaluation, undertaken in 1995.
 The results of this comparison are presented in Annex 3.

 The disturbances caused by the financial crisis, with high rates of inflation and an extremely unstable
 exchange rate, made derivation of comparable road construction costs and other economic parameters
 difficult. The Borrower's ICR estimated the actual outturn costs in 1996 prices. These are also included
 in Annex 3, with the costs estimated at appraisal in 1996 prices.

 At appraisal the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for individual schemes was in a range from 17 percent
 (Demak) to 30 percent (Kudus). The recalculated ERRs are in a similar but narrower band - from 22
 percent (Kaliwungu) to 25 percent (Cirebon).

 4.4 Financial rate of return:

 Not applicable.

 4.5 Institutional development impact:

 The institutional development impact is modest. The ability of the project to achieve the maximum



                                                      - 9 -

institutional benefit was adversely affected by the two Ministerial restructurings that occurred in 1999, and
the increased emphasis on decentralization and associated social and political instability.

One beneficial impact was the ownership of the implementation of Subcomponent B1 (QLI Physical
Works) by local governments. The implementation approach (described in section 4.2 above) supported
the policy on decentralization and showed that engendering ownership by local governments ensured
successful planning and construction of QLI works and their sustainability. The institutional success of
Subcomponent B1 has led to similar schemes being adopted in other road projects, including the Bank
funded Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project (SRIP).

The successive restructurings of MPW have resulted in very separate units being responsible for urban and
rural infrastructure. This structure has exacerbated the lack of integration of road planning and
construction, and has reduced the impact of a number of the SURIP initiatives. Lack of a unit to
promulgate the initiatives for URMS (Component D), Standards and Guidelines (Component E2) has
meant that to date these initiatives have had limited impact. This situation could be reversed if there were
widely distributed local governments to whom responsibility for these activities has been transferred under
decentralization. In contrast, despite the absence in the new structure of a central government unit
responsible for environmental management of urban road projects, beneficial institutional impact has been
achieved through the mainstreaming of guidelines and operational procedures for addressing environmental
and social issues.

As urban transport policy (Component E1) remains ad hoc and at a central government level, ownership
was difficult to establish in the midst of the restructuring of Ministries. The need for a concise urban
transport policy is not understood at local levels. The guidelines on bus service reform (prepared for
Bandung under Component E1) is one aspect that was completed successfully and could assist other local
governments in their development of policy.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                       Dec-96   Mar-97   Jun-97   Sep-97   Dec-97   Mar-98   Jun-98   Sep-98   Dec-98   Mar-99   Jun-99   Sep-99   Dec-99   Mar-00   Jun-00   Sep-00   Dec-00   Mar-01   Jun-01   Sep-01   Dec-01   Mar-02   Jun-02   Sep-02
                                    0
                                                                        2,300

                                 2,000
                                                                                                                                        Rupiah/US$
                                 4,000


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8,800
                                 6,000                                                                                                                                     7,500
        (US$1)

              Rate
                                 8,000



                  Exchange
                                10,000


                          Rupiah

                                12,000



                                14,000                                                                                                                                                        >12,000
                                                                                                                              >15,000

                                16,000




Financial crisis - The financial crisis that swept across Asia from July 1997 severely affected Indonesia.
The major problem, illustrated above, was the catastrophic and prolonged drop in the value of the Rupiah,



                                                                                                                                                                  - 10 -

know as Krismon, or "monetary crisis." An exchange rate of Rupiah 2,300 to US$1.00 was assumed in the
SURIP SAR in 1996. In July 1997, the exchange rate was around Rp 2,400 to the US$, by end of 1997
the rate had halved to around Rp 5,000 to the US$, and by mid June 1998, the daily Rupiah rate topped
over 15,300 to the US$. It was not until the first six months of 2002 that a steady improvement was seen
with the Rupiah rate stabilizing at around Rp 8,900 to the US$.

The crisis left government with insufficient funds either for normal budgetary requirements, or for the
counterpart funds required for major loan projects. The crisis had a negative impact on the physical
implementation of the works by contractors, and the inability of the government to provide the needed
counterpart funds led to substantial delays in implementation and the need for several major restructurings
of the SURIP loan.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


Adverse impact of restructuring the Ministry of Public Works. The Executing Agency for SURIP
was initially the Directorate of Urban Road Development (BINKOT) within the Directorate General of
Highways (Bina Marga) of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). MPW was substantially restructured in
1999 and again in 2000, becoming the Ministry of Settlements and Regional Development (Kimpraswil),
including a new Directorate General of Urban and Rural Development (DGURD), which incorporated the
previous BINKOT. The restructuring of MPW created difficulties for government staff to maintain
continuity in focus and activities. The new structure for DGURD exacerbated the lack of integration of
road planning and construction, and did not provide central government units responsible for environmental
management, urban road standards and guidelines or the URMS.

Delays in approving contracts. Significant delays that often ran to several months occurred between bid
evaluation and forwarding the recommendation to award to the Bank, due to review by a National
Procurement Team in BAPPENAS. Every contract of over 10 billion rupiah had to be submitted to the
National Procurement Board, which delayed the schedule by two to three months. The requirement was
changed mid way through the project.

Insufficient funds allocated by the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to local governments for land
acquisition. Land prices in bypass corridors rose rapidly between 1995 and 2003 independently of the
effects of the Krismon. These cost increases were due to local land speculation arising from the decision to
build the bypasses. Earlier land acquisition and adoption of more appropriate land use policies to protect
the bypass could have mitigated land price increases to some extent. Due to land price increases, funds
allocated for land acquisition were often inadequate, especially where there were delays to sub-project
implementation, and this resulted in further delays as additional funds had to be sought.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Appropriate management structure. The decision to nominate the Head of BINKOT as the Project
Manager (i.e., the Head of the PMU) streamlined decision-making. The Head of BINKOT was at the same
level as heads of other agencies and so commanded authority that led to faster decisions being made.

Project restructuring in response to crisis. The close project management of SURIP by the PMU and
relevant agencies mitigated the impacts of crisis. Monitoring of the progress of procurement and
implementation and early interventions when delays occurred greatly assisted project implementation. The
financial reporting system developed by the PMU permitted expenditures to be tracked closely despite
volatility in the value of the Rupiah. This system is now being used on the Bank's Sumatra Roads Project.



                                                     - 11 -

Adoption of SURIP engineering design standards for bypass construction. Wholehearted adoption of
the SURIP standard for sub-project construction led to a better standard of bypass and better integration
with urban road networks. As an example, the SURIP standard provided for design load to more closely
reflect expected maximum loads rather than legal limits, and so assists in avoiding excessive damage due to
truck overloading.

The implementing agency was not successful in influencing several factors that were potentially under its
control:

Inappropriate foundation designs on bridges in Central Java. Problems occurred on the bridges of the
Kaliwungu and Weleri bypasses and on toll bridge embankments in Semarang, all of which existed before
the project. The very soft soils in the area required more extensive and deeper foundations than proposed in
the initial design. The corrective work on both the existing and new bridges was extensive. Many of these
problems arose because soils investigations were not undertaken as part of design, or their results were
incorrectly reported. The procedures have since been revised.

Problems compounded by budget process. The budgeting process was inadequate for multi-year
construction projects. Monies were not available until April each year and agencies did not want to
commence the procurement process before the budget was available. This led to a situation where
contracts were not awarded until September at the start of the wet season when construction should not be
taking place. Recent changes to the budgeting process are addressing this problem.

Termination of contracts and rebidding was delayed. The currency collapse made it impossible for
contractors to honor their contracts due to the rise in bitumen product prices, which were priced in US
dollars. The contract escalation clauses for materials did not operate properly, and did not adequately
reflect the Rupiah price increase for these materials. A revised formula was developed, but a ministerial
decree gave contractors the option to terminate contracts without penalty, rather than use the revised
formula. Four contractors chose to do this. The net result was that the contracts had to be reformulated
and rebid, causing further delays of up to 12 months.

Changes in key personnel in BINKOT. Changes in many key personnel at BINKOT arising from the
restructurings and consequent loss of knowledge about the project and urban transport technical issues led
to delays and increased the need for the PMU and the Bank to assist. These losses were compounded by
what appeared to be an arbitrary allocation of technical staff to posts within the new agency structure.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal total project costs, not including the maintenance component, were projected at US$167.64
million. Actual costs, including the maintenance component, were US$109.23 million. The Bank's
estimated financing at appraisal was $86.93 million or 52 percent of the total, and counterpart
contributions of $80 million represented the balance. There was no cofinancing. The difficulties that arose
during the monetary crisis resulted in the need to make significant amendments to the Bank financing of
components and the Loan size. At completion, the SURIP Loan financed $76.55 million and the Second
Highway Sector Loan (HSL 2 - Ln. 3712-IND) contributed US$11.115 million, for total Bank financing of
US$86.36 million or 80 percent of the total project costs. The borrower financed $22.84 million equivalent
or 20 percent of the total. Total project costs comparing appraisal estimates to actuals are provided in
Annex 2.




                                                      - 12 -

Table 2 in section 10 provides summary information about the changes made to the civil works
components, which were most affected by the crisis. The major changes included: (a) increasing the
Bank's financing share of Civil Works, from 50 percent to 70 percent and later to 80 percent, in order to
reduce the counterpart funding requirements; (b) increasing the Bank's financing share of Consultants
Services, from 80 percent to 100 percent; (c) adding the maintenance component (Component F) for local
roads, providing up to US$18.7 million for periodic and routine maintenance; (d) reducing the funding for
civil works in the QLI component (Subcomponent B1) to fund the maintenance component; and (e)
cancelling US$10 million of the Loan (in August 1998).

The closing date was extended three times from the original date of September 30, 2001. The first
extension to September 30, 2002, was to compensate for the slow down in implementation due to the
financial crisis, and to allow adequate time for the completion of works, with lower than anticipated supply
of counterpart funding, so as the achieve the Project Development Objectives (PDO). The second
extension to March 31, 2003, was to compensate for the lower than anticipated transfer of funds from HSL
2 , and to allow BINKOT sufficient time to construct Cirebon bypass section 2 with the lower levels of
counterpart funds that were available. The third extension to May 31, 2003, was to allow completion of
the works contract for the Cirebon bypass section 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's sustainability is rated as likely. All of the Component A bypasses and Component B1 QLI
schemes are likely to be physically sustainable. The importance of maintenance in extending the economic
life of roads has been fully internalized in GOI road agencies. Even when funds were in short supply, the
government took measures to amend the Loan Agreement to allow it to finance maintenance. This suggests
that the government will be equally diligent to ensure that the roads constructed or maintained under the
project will be adequately maintained in future. The extent to which the reduction of traffic bottlenecks
remains sustainable will depend in part on the on the extent to which the capacity and function of the
schemes are maintained through the controls on access and roadside activities provided by subcomponents
B2 and B3, or through the provision of frontage roads.

The outcomes addressing the environmental and social issues associated with the use of the road network
and strengthening the capabilities of GOI agencies (Component C2) are highly sustainable as the
procedures developed in the project are now mainstreamed into Indonesian road planning and design
practices. They have been used in road projects including, the World Bank-funded Eastern Indonesia
Region Transport Project-1 (EIRTP-1), the Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project (SRIP), as well as in
ADB-funded projects.

The project came too early to have any sustainable impact on the process of decentralization. However the
training materials, policy papers and documents produced for franchising public transport services
represent sustainable outputs that can be used to support capacity building and transport policy
formulation and implementation in local governments following decentralization.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The bypass schemes were all implemented by the agency with the corresponding operations and
maintenance responsibilities. The indicators that were used to assess the project outcome ­ attraction of
through traffic and operation without congestion ­ remain valid for future monitoring. The physical works



                                                      - 13 -

of the QLI schemes were similarly implemented by the local governments with corresponding operations
and maintenance responsibilities. Suitable indicators for monitoring are those already used: traffic and
noise levels, traffic speeds and accidents.

The reviews for inclusion of the roads in local structure plans were prepared for the corresponding local
governments which now need to ensure the necessary amendments are made during the current reviews of
the plans. The local governments which prepared the various regulations for protection of the ROW are
also those responsible for seeing them implemented and enforced.

The engineering design, environmental and resettlement procedures developed during the project are now
standard practice for the design and implementation of national road schemes. The most appropriate
monitoring indicator for these aspects of the project is the extent to which the guidelines, procedures and
methods developed are used.

The Standards and Guidelines and URMS were prepared for the central government agency which should
have the responsibility, even under decentralization, for their promulgation and dissemination. However for
full use to be made of them, either new units need to be established with specific responsibility for these
tasks, or existing units need to be assigned responsibility for them.

The regulations for restructuring public transport in Bandung were prepared for the agency responsible for
their implementation. However actual implementation requires a political decision.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the preparation stage is rated as satisfactory.

Preparation was undertaken by a core team comprised of local and headquarters based staff and
consultants, with considerable experience in Indonesia, particularly in resettlement and environment.
During preparation, the scope of the project was broadened to ensure that the proposed roads were not
considered in isolation but integrated with the rest of the urban road network and the IUIDP, and that
operational issues were considered. The Bank introduced several innovations, including moving of noise
sensitive facilities like schools and clinics away from the road alignment, and the QLI component. Full
participation of the local government officials and residents was encouraged in order to improve the design
and delivery of the QLI subcomponents. Land acquisition and resettlement were being undertaken and
financed by local governments, so it was necessary to develop enforceable agreements to ensure that the
Bank requirements would be met. Environmental assessment for road schemes was relatively new, and
thus was also a focus, leading to the inclusion of an institution building component.

The Bank found that effective tools for urban road design and implementation programming were lacking,
and thus components were added to facilitate institutional development using the experience gained from
this project. Understanding was reached with the government on the inclusion of a policy component for
the development of an Urban Transport Policy Statement and Action Plan for inclusion in the Repelita VII
Urban Policy by mid-1997. The Bank also ensured that full engineering and environmental documentation
was made available at appraisal for the road schemes to be constructed in the first two years of the project.
In line with common practice on Bank funded road projects in Indonesia at the time, the engineering designs
were not subjected to detailed scrutiny. Given the later problems with the designs, a design audit at



                                                      - 14 -

preparation stage would have been appropriate.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank performance in supervision is rated as highly satisfactory. Overall the Bank conducted 16
supervision missions between July 1996 and January 2003.

The Asian financial crisis started to affect the project in 1997 within 12 months of effectiveness. From that
moment, the Bank team was constantly proactive and flexible in assisting the Borrower to manage project
implementation and the flow of funds so as to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis on the achievement
of the development objectives, and to preserve road assets. Attention was also focused on resolving
environmental and resettlement issues and ensuring compliance with safeguard policies and legal covenants.
(The covenant requiring Annual Work Programs was not enforced, as the objective of the covenant was
met with more frequent updating of work programs by the Borrower). To ensure that relevant and timely
advice could be given, at all times the status of project implementation was well documented. This status
reporting was greatly assisted by the monitoring systems set up by the PMU, regular quarterly reporting by
the Borrower, supplemented by forwarding to the Bank of the monthly Core Construction Supervision
Team civil works progress and environmental monitoring reports.

In February 1999, task management was decentralized to the resident mission in Jakarta to better address
implementation issues and achieve better follow up with the implementing agency and the PMU, both of
which were also based in Jakarta. (Task team members handling procurement, civil engineering,
environment and resettlement had been based in Jakarta since project effectiveness). Contract terminations,
cost escalations and road maintenance issues were serious problems engendered by the crisis that needed
urgent resolution to avoid the possibility of the suspension of disbursement. Regular meetings (generally
weekly) were held with the PMU, followed as needed with meetings with the Head of the PMU. At all
times the Bank team, the executing agency and the PMU worked closely and successfully to provide an
integrated approach to managing the project with the aim of solving problems and speeding critical
decisions. From June 1999, field inspections were undertaken on an approximately monthly basis to review
bypass and QLI works in progress, in conjunction with implementing agency staff, representatives of the
provincial government, PMU and construction supervision consultants. Every six months a formal mission
was undertaken. (The formal missions noted in Project Status Reports as set out in Annex 4 were therefore
only a small part of the supervision effort.).

Despite the changes in ministerial structures and staffing, Bank staff also closely supervised the quality of
the QLI program, the technical assistance and the Urban Transport Policy components. The Bank
remained concerned that the Urban Transport Policy and Program study was completed to a satisfactory
quality. Flexibility was shown in modifying the scope of TA subcomponents C1, C2 and E1 in the light of
changed circumstances, in order to try and achieve the desired project outcomes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Overall, the Bank performance is considered to be satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's contribution to preparation was satisfactory. BINKOT staff made important positive



                                                     - 15 -

contributions to the design of the sub-projects, including the timely provision counterpart funds for designs
of sub-projects proposed for the first two years of the project. BINKOT staff also supported the
innovations suggested by the Bank and worked hard to ensure all conditions for successful project
implementation (particularly relating to resettlement) were met by effectiveness. The one weak point of the
preparation, as came to light in the early stages of implementation, was in the engineering designs. The
schemes had been prepared by a number of Bina Marga agencies, and as BINKOT staff discovered during
implementation, to different engineering design standards. In line with current practice at the time, the
designs prepared for tendering were not final engineering designs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall, Government implementation performance given the difficult macroeconomic conditions and
shortage of counterpart funds brought about by the Asian financial crisis was satisfactory. Commitment
was sustained, except for the Urban Transport and Policy Component; stakeholder commitment to this
component was less than desirable for successful implementation due to the lack of a single agency being
fully accountable for the outputs. (The Japanese PHRD grant obtained for this component was
satisfactorily executed.). Stakeholder commitment to other institutional components appeared to be high at
time of preparation, but dissipated during implementation. The restructuring of Ministries negatively
affected the execution of the project, but the extent of the impact was in part mitigated by having the
position of Director of Urban Roads as project manager throughout implementation, thus facilitating
prompt responses to emerging problems.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the Implementing Agency (first BINKOT, subsequently DGURD) is rated as
satisfactory. These agencies established a full time PMU adequately staffed by consultants and
government officers, which satisfactorily discharged its responsibilities for overall project implementation,
financial management, procurement, progress monitoring and reporting and oversight of construction
supervision, resettlement and environmental management. BINKOT gave strong support to the PMU
which was essential to ensure the appropriate management of sub-projects. Despite the difficulties
resulting from the changes to the ministerial restructuring, agency staff adopted the project road design
standards and actively continued to observe the Guidelines produced by SESIM (Component C2) for the
improved environmental and social management of roads. Technical Assistance was used effectively for
studies and training. The failure to use the outputs for Components D, E1 and E2 (URMS, UTPP and
Standards and Guidelines) was disappointing, but due largely to factors beyond the control and
responsibility of the implementing agency.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall, the Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, given that it was operating in a changing and very
difficult environment through much of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Good project management facilitates effective project implementation. For any major project
involving senior, regional and local government officials, it is essential that the Project Manager have a line
position at a senior level within the executing agency to deal effectively with other government officials.
SURIP was fortunate to have the Director of BINKOT (and subsequently DGURD) as the project's
nominated project manager, thus facilitating prompt responses to emerging problems. The SURIP PMU
was a team composed of experienced local and international consultants (funded from the Loan), and


                                                      - 16 -

seconded staff from the implementing agencies. The use of good practice project management techniques
by the PMU throughout the project life was a key factor in its successful implementation. The PMU's
financial management system was of high quality and was extremely useful, and provided the ability to
plan around fluctuations in exchange rates. Similar systems are now being used on all Bank road
infrastructure projects in Indonesia and could have wider application.

2.        Flexible, supportive supervision by Bank staff is essential to ensure effective implementation
and respond to changed circumstances. Projects are not self implementing once designed ­ they need
constant adjustments in response to changing circumstances if the development objectives are to be
achieved. This is all the more true in times of rapid change like the East Asia financial crisis). Close
supervision under trying circumstances is best achieved with a field-based TTL.

3.        Major road improvements need to be integrated into urban structure. This issue was also
known at the start of the project, but (like final engineering design) was to be addressed during the project.
As bypasses were built, ad hoc road connections, pedestrian crossings and other facilities developed and
decreased the safety and efficiency of the new road. Many of these problems could have been avoided if
the broader design issues had been addressed before the start of construction.

4.        Controlling access to new roads requires more than by-laws. New rights-of-way create land
development opportunities on land fronting new roads, but providing access to this land can be detrimental
to the functioning of the facility. This was known at the start of the project, and the local government
regulations (Perdas) were conceived as means to control such access, rather than the more expensive option
of building frontage roads. It was found in SURIP that the regulations were ineffective, except perhaps in
the short term. Where development adjacent to the road is anticipated, access controls are needed, and
physical measures (such as frontage roads) are a necessary expense. This is a lesson that has wide
application.

5.        Proper design procedures are essential. SURIP designs were undertaken by a variety of
agencies to widely varying procedures and standards, and poor design was inexorably followed by poor
construction quality at completion. It is essential that a unified design procedure and standards, based on
international good practice, be consistently used by government agencies at all levels. The Standards and
Guidelines TA financed by SURIP made a start on developing an Indonesian Road Design Manual, and
this initiative needs to be continued.

6.        Final engineering designs and full bidding documents must be completed and checked as
compliant before tendering. The difficulties encountered in SURIP convinced the road agency and
reconfirmed the Bank view that good-quality final engineering designs and full bidding documents must be
completed before tendering, consistent with international good practice. This lesson was learned early in
project implementation to the benefit of the Kaliwungu Stage II, Semarang and the Cirebon sub-projects.
This approach is now standard procedure for World Bank and ADB financed road projects in Indonesia,
and should always be applied everywhere.

7.        QLI-type schemes can be mainstreamed but local ownership is essential. The experience of
SURIP is that small sub-projects to improve conditions in towns once bypasses are built are welcomed by
local governments who take ownership. Such schemes can be very successful if planned, designed and
constructed under the responsibility of the local government. The same approach to QLI is now being
incorporated into the proposed Strategic Roads Infrastructure Project (SRIP), and could have wider
application.



                                                      - 17 -

8.       Capacity building can be successful even with changes in the organizational structure if the
capacity building comprises modular training programs related to specific technical topics and guidelines
on good practice in planning, design and procedures that can be applied by a group of technicians or
professional staff in their daily operational tasks. Subcomponent C1 is a prime example. Even C2 is
judged to have had some benefits, although it rated unsatisfactory on both output and outcome indicators.

9.       Decentralization. There are several steps to decentralization of functions from central to local
government, which take time to implement and then more time for various organizations and their staff to
settle into their new roles. Drafting of technical standards and guidelines for the functions to be
decentralized is a necessary first step. Technical assistance and training can help in building capacity to
start undertaking new technical tasks, but should only be given once the organizations are seen to be fully
staffed and all administrative steps have been seen to be completed. Not all functions can be decentralized.
Decentralization also requires changes to be made in the roles and responsibilities of central agencies. It is
hampered when these changes do not occur, especially the lack of units in central agencies with
responsibility for functions which can only be performed at a national level such as formulation and
updating of technical standards and guidelines, or policy frameworks.

10.      Urban Transport Policy. For effective formulation and dissemination, urban transport policy
needs a single strong agency to be responsible. Roads are only one aspect of this policy, so it cannot be the
responsibility of the road agency. Where a single agency with responsibility for urban transport policy
does not exist, no amount of Bank support can engender it.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided comprehensive input to the ICR in the form of a twenty three page report with in
addition three Appendices. The Borrower's input to this ICR was informed by the results of a
questionnaire given to representatives of relevant provinces, local governments and central government
agencies. The analyses of the responses to the questionnaire are included in the Appendix 1 of the
Borrower's report, with the full responses given in Appendix 2. A stakeholder workshop was held on
March 24, 2003, where Project Management, Finance and Economic Issues, and Institutional and Legal
Issue were discussed in working groups. Appendix 3 of the Borrower's report contains an English
translation of the summary findings, which is reproduced as Annex 8 of this report. A summary of the
Borrower's input to the ICR, prepared by the Bank is given below.

Although the Borrower's contribution to the ICR was prepared prior to the closure of the project loan, it
reports in detail on the predicted loan outturn expenditure (as at May 26, 2003) by component and
sub-component and compares these with the amounts specified in the loan agreement. The prediction was
for an outturn expenditure of US$76.8 million versus US$76.9 million set out in the loan agreement.

Through a detailed analysis of the influence of Krismon on exchange rates and the effect on government
budgets, this ICR documents the background and rationale for five loan amendments made during the
project. This analysis also described the political changes occurring in Indonesia at the same time resulting
in a rapid shift from an authoritarian to a democratic form of government which caused uncertainty and
unrest, and resulted in a deepening of the financial and economic crisis.

The impacts of the Krismon influenced SURIP in several significant ways. Availability of counterpart
funding became scarce, and the prediction of future expenditure uncertain making effective management of



                                                      - 18 -

the loan and its components difficult. Funds for adequate maintenance of the existing road network were in
short supply. Consequently, a maintenance component was added to the loan divided into two categories,
larger periodic maintenance works and, in line with poverty alleviation, a labor intensive periodic
maintenance component for smaller schemes. These components were for works in Central and West Java
and Jabotabek.

Six pages are devoted to a detailed description of Component A: Road Construction and its outturn in
terms of expenditure, traffic forecasts and economic performance. The project set out to achieve high
standard bypasses, or ring roads around major bottlenecks on the North Java Corridor via construction of
new roads or upgrading of existing bypasses in eight cities. Detailed tabulations document what was
actually achieved versus planned. New or planned completions of bypasses were achieved in four of the
eight cities with lesser, though still significant upgradings made, in the other four cities. Problems which
occurred with incomplete preparatory work for sub-projects (eg inadequate soil investigation) and
incomplete designs common on fast tracked sub-projects early in SURIP are documented. This approach
lead to large addenda on contracts as designs were often significantly changed, with additional items added
to the Bill of Quantities and new rates negotiated, resulting in construction delays and increased costs.

The actual traffic forecast to use the project roads and estimated economic results were shown to be similar
to that forecast in the original SURIP SAR. Overall, the borrower's ICR rated these bypasses as Highly
Satisfactory (i.e., all seven bypasses attract 80% of through traffic and operate without congestion).

The Urban Management and Quality of Life Improvements (QLI) component is described in detail. QLI
involving civil works improvements such as pedestrian, becak, drainage and landscaping improvements was
found to be quite successful and well supported by local governments. The "soft" sub-components such as
Structure Plan Review and enforcement of development and access controls along the new bypasses were
found to be less successful. It appears this was because local governments were not fully aware of their
obligations under the SURIP loan.

Component C: Institutional and Human Resources Development was shown to be frustrated by
uncertainties created by policy changes occurring throughout government in Indonesia. This limited the
project's ability to fully strengthen DLLAJ (traffic units) in participating local governments. The
sub-component Strengthening of Environmental and Social Impact Management (SESIM) within Binkot
(Urban Roads Group) in Bina Marga which existed at the outset of the project ceased to exist after the first
of two major restructurings of central government agencies and their regional counterparts.

Component D: GOI Urban Road Programme Development was founded on the further development and
roll out of the Urban Road Management System (URMS) with the aid of consultants to several pilot cities.
Experience has shown that for URMS to be effective, it needs to be supported, maintained and
administered by a committed central body.

Component E: Policy Articulation and Implementation. This ICR describes the status of the work done on
Component E1: Urban Road Transport Policy and Programmes comprising work on developing Urban
Transport Policy and Program (UTPP) and Refinement and Implementation of Urban Public Transport
Policies in Bandung. Unfortunately, the guidelines and knowledge generated by these TA have not been
adopted as official policy or achieved wide-spread use for reasons beyond the Project.

More successful was the development of SURIP road design standard and guidelines. Although DGURD
had a number of recognised standards they lacked a formal document setting out standards and guidelines
to be adopted in the planning and detail design of road schemes, in particular, bypasses of the standard



                                                       - 19 -

conceived under SURIP. A TA was instigated on this project to outline the contents of an Indonesian Road
Design Manual (IRDM) and to prepare in detail a section on Feasibility Studies and Detail Engineering
design. A draft outline of the IRDM with detail sections on Feasibility and Detailed Design, including
provision of a standard TOR and Contract Document were prepared and used within SURIP.

The new component, Periodic Maintenance, was considered to have had a major beneficial effect on the
standard of the road network. The project carried out work on 837 Km of road in 355 maintenance works
contracts using over US$14 million of loan funds.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

Summary of Revisions to Component A road Component A Road Construction




                                                  - 20 -

  Project Name          Project Length   Project Cost (Rp.
                        (km)             Billion)
                        Planned   Actual  Original Actual  Remarks
1 Cirebon Bypass                                           Bypass satisfactorily completed.
  Section 1             6.0       6.0     6.05     7.52    Completed as planned
  Section 2             1.8       1.8              77.2    Initial plans for at-grade rail crossing
                                                           cancelled, replaced by overlay. Later,
                                                           major flyover proposal re-introduced
                                                           and completed
  Overlay Section 2 & 3           2.6              3.2     See above
2 Pemalang                                                 Bypass not completed.
  Section 1             5.6       5.2              3.6     Projects shelved, replaced by overlay
                                                           to prolong existing pavement life
  Section 2             4.1       0
3 Weleri Bypass         5.2       5.2     31.9     31.6    Bypass satisfactorily completed.
                                                           Initial contract terminated prematurely
                                                           Eventually completed in two Phases.
                                                           Improved bridge design made possible
                                                           by additional soils investigations
4 Kaliwungu Bypass      8.6       8.6     62.2     75.7    Bypass satisfactorily completed.
                                                           Initial contract terminated
                                                           prematurely. Contracts re-packaged
                                                           and continued. Bridge failures
                                                           required redesign and reconstruction.
5 Semarang Ring Road                                       Bypass partially completed.
  Section 1             6.6       6.6     47.4     57.1    Initial contract terminated
                                                           prematurely, and then continued with
                                                           repackaging.
  Section 2             1.5       1.5              130.5   Scope extended to include major
                                                           flyovers.
6 Demak Bypass          8.5       7.0     64.8     79.0    Bypass partially completed.
                                                           Krismon and land acquisition
                                                           problems resulted in reduced scope of
                                                           work, with single carriageway over
                                                           most of length. Bridges and junctions
                                                           constructed to allow for future
                                                           dualling when funds available.
7 Kudus SE Ring Road    11.7      11.7    53.9     50.8    Bypass satisfactorily completed.
                                                           Initial contract terminated prematurely
                                                           and then continued with repackaging.
                                                           Rigid pavement added on short section
                                                           to overcome soils problems




                                             - 21 -

Summary of SURIP Loan Amendments


Loan Category              Original WB     Jan-98          Dec-98         Jul-99          Jul-01           Aug-02            Mar-03
                           Funding
Completion Date            30-Sep-01                                      30-Sep-02                        31-Mar-03          31-May 03

1a. Civil Works projects   50%             70% FY 1997/98 80% FY 98/99     80%             80%             80% except 70% 80% except 70%
implemented by central                     80% FY 1998/99 & 99/20                                          Cirebon Bypass     Cirebon Bypass
level agencies                             50% thereafter  50% thereafter                                  Section 2 Phase II Section 2 Phase II


                           US $ 50,800,000 US $ 50,800,000 US $ 28,500,000 US $ 28,500,000 US $ 44,500,000 US $ 47,020,000 US $ 47,020,000
1b. Civil Works Projects   60%             70% FY 1997/98 80% FY 98/99     80%             80%             80%                80%
implemented by the                         80% FY 1998/99 & 99/20
participating Local                        60% thereafter  50% thereafter
Governments
                           US $ 11,800,000 US $ 11,800,000 US $ 11,000,000 US $ 11,000,000 US $ 2,750,000  US $ 1,255,000     US $ 1,255,000
1c. Contracted routine and N/A                             80%                             80%                                80%
periodic maintenance
works under Part F.1 of the
Project.                   NIL                             US $ 14,000,000                 US $ 10,300,000                    US $ 10,330,000
1d. Contracted routine and N/A                             80% FY 98/99   90%             90%              90%               90%
periodic maintenance                                       & 99/20
works under Part F.1 of the                                50% thereafter US $4,700,000   US $2,200,000    US $4,060,000     US $4,060,000
Project.                   NIL                             US $ 4,700,000
2. Goods for sub projects  100% foreign                                                   100% foreign     100% foreign       100% foreign
implemented by central     65% Local                                                      65% Local        65% Local          65% Local
level agencies             US $ 3,500,000                                                 US $ 550,000     US $ 560,000       US $ 560,000
3A. Consultancy Services   80%                                                            100%             100%               100%
Implemented by central
level agencies             US $ 11,300,000                                                US $ 13,260,000  US $ 12,765,000 US $ 12,765,000
3B. Consultancy Services   100%                                                           100%             100%               100%
Implemented by
Participating Local
Governments                US $ 2,100,000                                                 US $ 600,000     US $ 760,000       US $ 760,000
4. Training                80%                                                            100%             100%              100%
                           US $ 1,800,000                                                 US $ 740,000     US $ 150,000      US $ 150,000
UNALLOCATED                US $ 5,600,000                  NIL            NIL             NIL              NIL               NIL

Cancelled                                                  US $10,000,000 US $10,000,000  US $10,000,000   US $10,000,000     US $10,000,000

Total Loan 4054            US $ 86,900,000 US $ 86,900,000 US $ 86,900,000 US $ 86,900,000 US $ 86,900,000 US $ 86,900,000 US $ 86,900,000




                                                              - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
HS-All seven bypasses attract 80% of          Highly satisfactory                 Four bypasses completed and performing in
through traffic and operate without                                               excess of target. Two bypasses partially
congestion (V/C ratio) over at least 80% of                                       completed, but performing in excess of
their length.                                                                     target. One project not built.
S-Five to six bypasses                                                            Assessment: Satisfactory
US-Four bypasses
HU-Three or less

HS- All PAP better off                        Highly satisfactory                 No PAP worse off.
S - No PAP worse off                                                              Assessment: Satisfactory
US - 10% PAP worse off
HU >10% worse off

HS - All eight DLLAJ participated in at least Unsatifactory                       Establishment of DLLAJ units delayed, as
75% of preparation and implementation                                             was their participation in project preparation
activities.                                                                       and implementation.
S - 6 DLLAJ participating in 50% of activities                                    Assessment: Unsatisfactory
US - 4 or less DLLAJ participating in 50% of
activities.
HU - DLLAJ operational, but not participating

HS ­ Full integration of AMDAL into design    Satifactory                         Government restructuring resulted in loss of
and at least 90% of schemes reviewed                                              in-house personnel who had been trained
S - 50% schemes reviewed                                                          under SESIM. Application of environmental
US - <50% schemes review                                                          procedures remains as part of project
HU ­ No change in current operations                                              preparation and planning, carried out by
                                                                                  consultants on behalf of GOI. Assessment:
                                                                                  Satisfactory

HS - GOI UT Policy incorporated in            Unsatisfactory                      Policy development and articulation was not
REPELITA VII for Transport Sector                                                 satisfactory. REPELITA VII was not
S - UT Policy Statement endorsed by                                               continued with. Assessment: Unsatisfactory
BAPPENAS
US - Draft not agreed
HU - No Draft Statement produced by IWG


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Road Construction                          Satisfactory                        Component A Assessment: Satisfactory
Seven Road projects                                                               Four schemes completed in full; two partially
                                                                                  completed; one not completed.
B. Urban Management and Quality of Life       Satisfactory                        Component B Assessment: Satisfactory
Improvements

B1: Traffic and Environmental management                                          All towns implemented QLI works... High
plan (including civil works) for seven towns                                      level of local ownership established.
                                                                                  Assessment: Highly satisfactory.

B2: Structure plan review for seven project                                       All reviews satisfactorily completed, but no
towns                                                                             local government structure plan updating was
                                                                                  undertaken during the project.
                                                                                  Assessment: Unsatisfactory.

B3: ROW for seven road schemes protected.                                         Perdas were enacted in all towns. However
                                                                                  enforcement is limited. Assessment:
                                                                                  Unsatisfactory

                                                                                  Perdas include details of acceptable
                                                                                  locations for development were prepared.




                                                                 - 23 -

                                                                    These need to be included in future revisions
                                                                    of urban structure plans. Assessment:
                                                                    Unsatisfactory


Institutional and Human Resource                                    Component C Assessment: Satisfactory
Development

C1: DLLAJ Strengthened and staff trained in                         Some Tk II training provided where units
eight participating local governments                               established. A number of Tk II units not
                                                                    established in required timeframe. Training
                                                                    provided to Tk I Units instead. Units
                                                                    participated in B1 to varying extents.
                                                                    Assessment: Unsatisfactory

C2: Strengthen BINKOT AMDAL section                                 BINKOT and Environmental section
                                                                    restructured, so the formal target not
                                                                    achieved. SESIM TA otherwise very
                                                                    successful, and outputs fully incorporated
                                                                    into existing practice. Assessment:
                                                                    Satisfactory


D. GOI Urban Road development Urban        Satisfactory             Component D Assessment: Satisfactory
Road Programme                                                      Original Sub-component deleted and
Satisfactory                                                        replaced by URMS implementation TA.
                                                                    Satisfactorily completed, but the unit required
                                                                    to further develop URMS has not been set
                                                                    up.
E. Policy articulation and implementation  Unsatisfactory           Component E Assessment: Unsatisfactory

E1: Urban Transport Policy and Programmes                           Policy statements prepared, but were
                                                                    uneven and not adopted as GOI policy
                                                                    standard. Subsequent work on public
                                                                    transport policy in Bnadung was completed
                                                                    satisfactorily but the recommendations have
                                                                    yet to be acted on. Assessment:
                                                                    Unsatisfactory.
E2: BINKOT Guidelines
                                           Satisfactory             Output of Standards and Guidelines TA
                                                                    prepared to a reasonable standard, and
                                                                    within required timelines. Guidelines also
                                                                    completed under other components..
                                                                    Assessment: Satisfactory
F.Maintenance Category 1c: Periodic
Maintenance Category 1d: Routine           Satisfactory             Component F Assessment: Highly
Maintenance                                                         Satisfactory
                                                                    All schemes implemented. Total cost US$10
                                                                    million
                                                                    All schemes implemented. Total cost
                                                                    US$4.05 million


1End of project




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                              Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                               Estimate   Estimate     Appraisal
                   Component                US$ million US$ million
 A. Road and Bypass Construction            106.85       84.46                  79

 B. Urban Management and Quality of Life     24.33        1.98                   8

 C. Institutional and Human Resource          2.00        1.90                  95
 Development

 D. Urban Road Program Development            0.50        1.35                 270

 E. Policy Formulation and Articulation       0.53        1.31                 247

 F. Road Maintenance                          0.00       16.42                    -

 Total Baseline Cost                        134.21      107.42
 Physical Contingencies                       10.52         0
 Price Contingencies                          16.19         0
 Taxes (GOI Expenditure)                       6.72       1.61

                Total Project Costs         167.64      109.23



         Total Financing Required           167.64      109.23




                                            - 25 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                           Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category         ICB          NCB                 2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                        106.70        24.80          0.00            0.00          131.50
                                (53.30)      (14.70)        (0.00)           (0.00)       (68.00)
2. Goods                         3.40         0.60           0.00            0.20           4.20
                                (3.20)        (0.50)        (0.00)           (0.00)        (3.70)
3. Services                      0.00         0.00          16.20            0.00          16.20
                                (0.00)        (0.00)       (13.40)           (0.00)       (13.40)
4. Miscellaneous -Training       0.00         0.00           2.20            0.00           2.20
                                (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.80)           (0.00)        (1.80)
5. Miscellaneous -Land           0.00         0.00           0.00            6.80           6.80
                                (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous -Taxes          0.00         0.00           0.00            6.70           6.70
and Duties                      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   Total                        110.10        25.40         18.40            13.70         167.60
                                (56.50)      (15.20)       (15.20)           (0.00)       (86.90)
  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                    1
                                             Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category           ICB          NCB                 2                    Total Cost
                                                                Other          N.B.F.

  1. Works                          68.80        17.88          0.00            0.00          86.68
                                   (56.50)       (16.15)        (0.00)          (0.00)    (72.
                                                                                          65)
  2. Goods                           0.57         0.00          0.00            0.00      0.57
                                    (0.57)       (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)    (0.5
                                                                                           7)
  3. Services                        0.00         0.00          11.66           0.00      11.6
                                                                                           6
                                    (0.00)       (0.00)        (11.18)          (0.00)    (11.
                                                                                          18)
  4. Miscellaneous -Training         0.00         0.00          1.90            0.00      1.90
                                    (0.00)       (0.00)         (1.90)          (0.00)   (1.9)
  5. Miscellaneous -Land             0.00         0.00          0.00            6.80      6.80
                                    (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)    (0.0
                                                                                           0)
  6. Miscellaneous -Taxes and        0.00         0.00          0.00            1.61      1.61
  Duties                            (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)    (0.0
                                                                                           0)
     Total                          70.73         18.13         13.56           13.50     109.
                                                                                          23
                                   (57.07)       (16.15)       (13.08)          (0.00)       (86.30)

  US$10.0 million was cancelled.



                                           - 26 -

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                  Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A.Road and Bypass             64.80        66.80         0.00       65.00         21.03                 100.3     31.5      0.0
Construction
B. Urban Management and       19.10        13.20         0.00        1.79         0.18                   9.4      1.4       0.0
Quality of Life
C. Institutional and           2.00         0.00         0.00        1.90                               95.0      0.0       0.0
Human Resource
Development
D. Urban Road Program          0.50         0.00         0.00        1.35         0.00                  270.0     0.0       0.0
Development
E. Policy Formulation and      0.53         0.00         0.00        1.31                               247.2     0.0       0.0
Articulation
F. Road Maintenance                                                 15.01         1.63
Total                         86.93        80.00                    86.36         22.84                 99.3      28.6

   The SURIP Loan financed $76.55 million and the Second Highway Sector Loan (Ln. 3712-IND) contributed
   US$11.115 million




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1.       Introduction. The project economic analyses were re-evaluated by the Borrower with assistance
from the Bank, and reported in the Borrower's ICR. The methodology used was the same as one used at
appraisal. The key assumptions made remained the same as at appraisal, with traffic flows and
construction costs amended to reflect actual flows and costs in 2003.

2.       Traffic Flows. Traffic levels in 2003 are lower than forecast, with actual traffic totaling only 80%
of forecast traffic. This is consistent with the interruption to growth caused by Krismon, with traffic levels
not returning to pre-crisis levels for 3-4 years. The actual share of total traffic taken by the bypasses of
SURIP cities is 47%, as compared with a forecast 53%. At the higher levels of forecast total traffic, with
greater levels of congestion, a higher bypass share of traffic would be expected, and it is apparent that the
traffic forecasts have proved to be quite robust.

3.       Cost Estimates. The "as built" actual cost estimates for Kaliwungu, Kudus, and Weleri, are for
essentially the same scheme as the SAR cost estimate. In Cirebon, the costs are higher as it was decided to
proceed with the section II scheme (which included a bridge over the railway), whereas the SAR costs are
for the Section I scheme. The higher cost of Semarang NRR are due to the costs of the extended elevated
section required to provide a passable road in times of frequent local flooding. The cost for the Demak are
lower than the SAR estimates reflecting the decision to build the by pass initially as a single two lane road
rather than the dual two lane road agreed at appraisal.


                                       Daily Traffic Estimates      Cost Estimates        Economic Rate of
                                                                      (Rp. Billion)            Return

     Sub-Project          Road                                      SAR      Actual       ERR
                                     1995        2003       2003    Costs,    Costs,               ERR (%)
                                              Forecast     Actual   1996       1996       (%)      Observed
                                                                    Prices    Prices    Forecast

 1. Cirebon           Bypass        19,621    37,497       21,849   15,709   29,938    24.0        25.2
 2. Weleri            Bypass        0         16,969       14,816   18,105   18,016    24.4        23.9
                      National      15,763    9,883        7,619
                      Total         15,763    25,852       22,435
 3. Semarang NRR      Bypass        0         28,133       15,912   55,975   72,549    21.1        22.2
                      National      18,020    1,496        12,919
                      Total         18,020    29,629       28,831
 4. Kaliwungu         Bypass        0         18,660       13,519   24,642   29,493    27.0        22.2
                      National      21,817    9,980        8,377
                      Total         21,817    28,640       21,896
 5. Demak             Bypass        0         15,384       11,798   30,369   27,720    17.2        23.9
                      National      14,440    9,418        7,619
                      Total         14,440    24,802       19,417
 6. Kudus             Bypass        0         12,977       7,694    26,769   24,308    29.7        22.7
                      National      15,263    13,655       14,909
                      Total         15,263    26,632       22,603




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation

              12/09/1994                6    URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); CIVIL
                                             ENGINEER (1); URBAN
                                             SECTOR REPRESETATIVE
                                             (1); RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
              04/ 10/1995               5    URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1); URBAN
                                             SECTOR REPRESETATIVE
                                             (1); TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
              08/11/1995                     URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             ENGINEER(1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                                             PLANNER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/14/1995                7    URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             ENGINEER (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1); PROGRAM
                                             ASSISTANT (1 -
                                             negotiations)

 Supervision

              07/29/1996                3    URBAN TRANSPORT                  S               S




                                              - 29 -

                      ENGINEER (1); CIVIL
                      ENGINEER (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1)
      11/01/1996    4 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);     HS    HS
                      URBAN PLANNER (1);
                      URBAN TRANSPORT SPEC.
                      (2)
      03/21/1997    7 HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);       HS    HS
                      TRANSPORT OPS OFFICER
                      (1); RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
                      (1); IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                      (1); URBAN TRANSPORT (1);
                      TRANSPORT PLANNER (1);
                      TRAFFIC ENGINEER (1)
      08/05/1997    5 TRANSPORT OPS OFFICER       S     S
                      (1); URBAN TRANSPORT (1);
                      TRANSPORT PLANNER (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT (1)
      11/19/1997    4 TRANSPORT OPS OFFICER       S     S
                      (1); URBAN TRANSPORT (1);
                      TRANSPORT PLANNER (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT (1)
      05/01/1998    2 URBAN TRANSP SPECIALST      S     S
                      (1); CONSULTANT (1)
      07/17/1998    1 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)        S     U
      10/28/1998    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);       S     U
                      SECTOR COORDINATOR (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1); SOCIAL
                      DEV SPECIALIST (1);
                      OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
      02/29/2000    6 TTL/CIVIL ENGINEER (1);     S     S
                      URBAN TRANSPORT
                      SPECIALIST (2);SECTOR
                      COORDINATOR (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT (1)
      11/06/2000    3 TTL/CIVIL ENGINEER (1);     S     S
                      RESETTLEMENT/LAND (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL (1)
      11/14/2001    3 TTL/ENGINEER (1);           S     HS
                      RESETTLEMENT (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT (1)
      06/20/2002    1 URBAN TRANSPORT             S     S
                      ENGINEER (1)

ICR
      03/2003       1 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER          S     S
                      (1)




                      - 30 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                28.50                          118.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    128.20                          445.9
  Supervision                              131.54                          514.4
  ICR                                        7.33                           47.0
  Total                                    295.57                        1,126.2
Costs incurred up to and including FY99 were increased 15% to take into account changes n accounting
practices starting in FY00.




                                                 - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
"Other" under the social category refers to resettlement




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, Strategic Urban Roads Infrastructure Project, June 4, 1996.

The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on the Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for
the Republic of Indonesia, February 27, 1995.

The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on the Country
Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Indonesia, June 13, 1997.

The World Bank, Memorandum of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the International Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on the Country
Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Indonesia, January 4, 2001.

World Bank Mission Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports and Field Inspection Back to Office Reports
(1996-2003)




                                                   - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. ICR Worshop Summaries


 1.    Introduction


 In February and March 2003 questionnaires were issued to the representatives of affected Provinces,
 Kotas and Kabupatens, Bappenas, Anggaran and Sub.dits of all directors in DGURD. Details of
 questions and responses are given in Appendix 1 and 2. A workshop was held on 24 March where
 various were discussed in working groups, Project Management, Finance and Economic Issues and
 Institutional and Legal.

 1.1 The Workshop
 The aims of the workshop were outlined by the World Bank followed by a presentation by the PMU
 consultant of the achievement of the project and some of lessons to be learned.

 The delegates consisted by local officials from the various Kabupatens and Kotamadyas, the provinces
 of central and west Java and central DGURD staff who had made a significant contribution to the
 project.

 The aims of the workshop were outlined by the World Bank followed by a presentation by the PMU
 consultant of the achievement of the project and some of lessons to be learned.

 The delegates were then split into the three groups.

       Group A Project Management

       Group B Financial and Economic Issues

       Group C Institutional and Legal

 The groups held 2 sessions, the first dealing directly with their subject matter and the second with the
 Project benefits.

 The views expressed were in discussions and not necessarily the view of the Government of Indonesia


 2.    Discussion Group A Project Management Session 1

 The overall summary is that SURIP had performed well and the benefits of relieving key urban
 bottlenecks on the North Java Corridor route had significantly improved the situation.

 The following comments should be seen as feedback rather that criticism of the project.

 2.1 Planning and implementation

 1.    A bypass has a significant affect on a city, insufficient consideration is taken during the planning
 stages on the overall city plan and how these should be modifies.
 2.    To improve quality of construction and life of the project much tighter contract supervision is
 necessary.
 3.    Project Managers and engineers should be more aware of documenting, inspections, authorisations,
 changes, reason for changes and assessment of risks as eventually there may be a need to comply with
 ISO 9001.
 4.    Greater awareness and understanding of construction contracts and the responsibilities of the
 parties is necessary.



                                                   - 35 -

5.   On Civil Works contracts it was considered that the escalation clauses were insufficiently detailed.
6.   The standard designs as used on the later SURIP projects experienced very few problems, earlier
versions were subject to large variations

2.2 Maintenance
1.   Uncertainty of GOI budgeting made maintenance planning unclear.
2.   Budgets are not generally available until the 2nd Quarter of the year in which they are effective
consequently delaying tenders and late payments to contractors.
3.   To solve the above it was suggested that Routine budget under UPR could be used as it is not
subject to time constraints.
4.   On the Ring Roads and Bypasses constructed there is a need to carryout preventative maintenance,
cleaning ditches and repair of potholes that may have occurred due to flooding.

2.3 QLI
5.   QLI projects as well as covering the bypassed national roads and its immediate surroundings
should address the access roads to the bypass.

2.4 Operation of the Road Network
6.   There is a need to ensure a smooth flow of traffic on the bypasses and Ring Roads to reduce the
potential for accidents, traffic jams. This will require the support of DLLAJ in maintaining traffic light
operation, repairing street lighting as and when necessary and generally manage the traffic flow
7.   Illegal traders should be controlled by law enforcement after informing and developing alternative
locations to ply their business. ­ Possibly development of rest areas off the road alignment. It was also
suggested that there should be road signs along the bypasses and ring roads stating informing
8.   With the large the growth in traffic experienced in Indonesia, it is important to focus on the design
function of the road that is for strategic national and regional traffic movements.

2.5 Land
9.   Ideally, land acquisition process takes 2 years.
10. Compensation should take both the form of money and resettlement. Project Affected People
should as a result of the scheme obtain a better economic and social life.

3.   Discussion Group A Project Management Session 2
3.1 Quality of Contractors

        Generally good, but there were some lacking in performance, it was suggested that a stricter
        Prequalification Process is necessary.

        It is considered that there should be a requirement that the monies paid to the contractor should
        be managed by the Contractor's senior representative on site to allow him to manage the cash
        flow rather than his head office. This should be a requirement of Prequalification.

3.2 Quality of Design Consultants

        Better survey work both geotechnical and topographical is needed if major changes are to be
        minimised during construction. The later designs went a long way to improve the situation
        particularly the topographical survey. Soil surveys should be carried out to Indonesian Soils
        Investigation Standards.

        If designs are to be improved, a stricter selection process will be needed.



                                                   - 36 -

      Designs should be fully detailed ready for construction to reduce changes and variations on site.
      Designers must be given sufficient time to carry out the surveys, designs and design checks.
      Based on a Preliminary Design Layout on an average bypass of medium complexity the
      consultant should be allowed the time to carry out the survey plus 4-5 months to carry out the
      Final Engineering Design, checking and Bid preparation. This also requires the client, and
      utility companies to respond quickly and efficiently.

3.3 Quality of Feasibility Studies under SURIP 1B

      Generally enough although there were reservations about the Team Leader's approach and
      conclusions.

      It was suggested that feasibility studies should prepared under APBN rather than financed by
      loans particularly for schemes to be implemented in the first year of a loan.

3.4 Quality of Consultant for UTS SURIP iB

      Good

3.5 Quality of URMS Consultant

      Good enough, but the potential users, towns and cities, and central government need to be
      informed of its capabilities and trained in its use. For development and testing is still required.

3.6 Quality of SESIM Consultant

      Good. Potential users, towns and cities, and central government need to be informed of it's
      content and trained in its use. The Training of trainers was carried out by the consultant, it is
      now important that training is undertaken by these trainers and sufficient budget is available for
      them.

3.7 Quality of Standards and Guidelines Consultant

      Good enough. This project only starts the writing of the Indonesian Road Design Manual
      (IRDM) outlining the contents of the manual and development of only two aspects, Feasibility
      Studies and Detail Engineering Design. Further substantial work is needed for the continued
      development of the manual and the Feasibility and Detail design portions require
      implementation, feedback and amendment.

3.8 General Comments of provision of Ring roads and Bypasses

      Frontage roads should be provided for safety and separation of local and longer distance traffic
      ­ the combination of slow and fast vehicles on the same road is potentially dangerous. Both the
      population and local industry want this separation.

      The Bypasses and Ring Roads have been of enormous benefit to the long distance traveller on
      the North Java Corridor.

      No contracts should be awarded until land acquisition is complete. Local Government have
      limited funds undertake this work.

4.  Discussion Group B Economic and Financial Session 1
4.1 Budgetting

      There were no problems in the counterpart funds from APBN



                                                - 37 -

      Time and system were not accurate

      Disbursement could not be multi-processed

      Comment from CPMO: Remaining disbursement work can be accomplished within 3 months.

4.2 Land Acquisition

      Land prices between 1995 to 2003 have risen by up to 15 times.

      Comment from Cirebon:

      APBN funding allocation was a problem in land acquisition and was only released after
      representative senior management in the Kota. Suggest in future that funding for land
      acquisition come from the province or is shared between Central Government, provincial and
      Kabupaten/Kota.

      Land acquisition is carried out by local government, it is essential that there is certainty of
      complete land acquisition at time of Works Contract Award.

      During construction flooding was increased as a result of unfinished drainage work.

4.3 Economic Benefit

      Comment from Cirebon:

      A failing of the EIRR calculations used for the bypasses is that no account is taken of the
      benefit resulting from new development in the town due to the removal of bypass and improved
      road network.

      Improving drainage channels through the construction of the bypass has led to problems
      downstream where drainage facilities are less adequate.

      Comment from Kendal

      EIRR for road schemes do not take into account the economic benefit of improved road network
      particularly to region less develop regions of the country.

4.4 QLI

      Comment from Cirebon:

      The extent of QLI projects should be continued.

5.  Discussion Group B Economic and Financial Session 11

5.1 Benefits of the Project

      Comment from Cirebon:

      QLI work has help areas of the city but the benefit is less obvious as it was carried out in the
      wealthier part of the city.



                                               - 38 -

      QLI from a local government point of view was very useful as APBD funds are very limited.

      Comment from Kudus:

      QLI has benefited both the quality of road surface and improved the environment of the town.

      QLI from a local government point of view was very useful as APBD funds are very limited.

      Comment from Kabupaten Pekalongan:

      In carrying out QLI work it was possible to improve roads in the city. The funds from PEMDA
      are very limited.

      Comment from Kabupaten Kendal (Kaliwungu and Weleri:

      The Physical benefits of the project are extremely impressive with the city being relieved of
      national and regional traffic. Because of the new condition of the town there are many new
      investors.

      From the technical side it is a pity there was a need for many design revisions. (Kaliwungu
      Bypass in particular experienced a number of construction difficulties).

      The improvement in the North Java Corridor has not been matched by an increase in peoples
      incomes resulting in the appearance of illegal traders that are difficult to handle and influence
      the function of the road network.

      Comments from Local consultants

      Kudus:        Reduction in noise and accidents on the old national road through town

5.2 Responsibility of the national road now bypassed

      Responsibility for the ex-national road is not yet clear.

      The capability of local government (PEMDA) to handle the maintenace of the ex-national road
      is very limited. To reduce maintenance costs, it was suggested that heavy vehicles should not be
      allowed on the these ex-national roads.

      The local authorities expressed their concern that despite UU No13 that TELKOM and PLN
      continue to dig up roads in the city and this will be the case on the ex-national road.

6.  Discussion Group C Institutional and Legal Issues Session 1
6.1 Planning

      There is a need for a transportation Master Plan for the country, Region and Province These
      should be used to plan road development at the various levels.

      Uncertainty of Central Government budgeting and the time to resolve makes planning difficult.
      Budgets are not usually confirmed until the 2nd quarter of the year in which they are to be
      implemented. This has the affect of delaying tendering and eventual start of works and delays to



                                                - 39 -

      payment of contractors.

      GOI counterpart preparation funds (Bappeda, DPRD and APBD) are not clear.

      There is a need to clarify the road function, road status and width

      Socio-economic and environmental issues need to be addressed more strongly,

      There is a need to involve stakeholders in the planning process. i.e. Central, Provincial and
      Kabupaten'Kotamadya)

      There should be better co-ordination on all institutions invlved with handling road transport
      (Bappeda, Dinas Tata Kota, DLLAJ, police and stakeholders)

      There is insufficient co-ordination between city planning and national road network planning

      Land acquisition is not seen as an administrative process, but as a road development process

      Earlier schemes in the project did not take into account prevailing flood levels sufficiently and
      consequential pavement damage has occurred.

      The types of QLI treatment, some indicate, are not compatible with conditions and needs of the
      region.

6.2 Implementation

      Due mainly to the fast track approach to design there were many amendments to the earlier
      contracts.

      Land problems thought to have been resolved prior to contract award were not causing delays
      and frustration to works progress.

      The responsibility for programme of implementation is not as clear as it should be.

      There is a need to scale and plan the development adjacent to bypasses to limit access.

6.3 After implementation

      Control and consistency of planning issues need improvement

      Traffic light consistency needs to improved for cost effective maintenance

      There needs to be stronger control of the right of way

7.  Discussion Group C Institutional and Legal Issues Session 11
7.1 Summary

      SURIP bypasses and QLI have proved a major benefit to the national route network. However,
      there is a need to complete the supporting infrastructure, i.e. alternative routes for local traffic
      and strong traffic regulations on the bypasses.

      There is a need to consider the economic growth as an impact of road development by



                                               - 40 -

      anticipating the illegal street markets.

      PEMDA need to prepare themselves to receive projects and to carry out O & M

      The QLI specification is too high, it should be adapted for each location.

      Central Government should inform the stakeholders of the conditions and requirements of a new
      loan

      The World Bank must understand local problems

Any condition of the loan that forces action on local government should be negotiated in detail with local
government.




                                                 - 41 -

Additional Annex 9. Resettlement Experiences under SURIP

Introduction
All schemes in Component A Road Construction involved land acquisition and/or resettlement.
The Bank, and the central and provincial governments, regularly supervised implementation of land
acquisition and resettlement. Central and provincial governments had good and intense levels of
communication with the local governments. As the project involved national roads, all levels of
government gave a strong commitment to implementation of the project, including land acquisition. Central
and provincial governments helped local governments with limited financial capacity, such as Demak, by
providing them budget for land acquisition and resettlement.

There was some concern that the cash compensation provided by local government for land acquisition did
not reflect the market price, even though market prices were difficult to assess. However, local
governments showed their commitment to ensuring project affected persons (PAP) were adequately
compensated by giving affected people the option of moving to a serviced-settlement, and being given land
certificates for the plot they occupied. The local governments were able to finish land acquisition on time,
including relocating schools and installing sound barriers for the schools.

A detailed explanation of resettlement in Cirebon, Weleri, Kaliwungu, Semarang, Demak, and Kudus is
given below, together with a table of land acquisition data for the project cities/kabupatens. Overall, the
resettlement processes and results are considered satisfactory.

Cirebon

Cirebon bypass affected people operating kiosks in both the kabupaten of Cirebon and the city of Cirebon.
Land acquisition was undertaken by providing compensation in cash and a relocation site for the kiosks. No
houses were acquired or relocated. The local governments paid all the required cash compensation to the
affected people and satisfactorily relocated the kiosks.

Kabupaten Kendal

The local government of Kabupaten Kendal has ring roads in Weleri and Kaliwungu. Both of them are new
roads with a total of 191 households affected by the project.

In Weleri land acquisition was completed with compensation paid in cash and the relocation of houses and
one elementary school to a new location. They were relocated in the same village, less than 1 km from the
original location. The project financed the relocation site and services including a local road, an access
road, public utilities, drainage, electricity and a deep well. Beside the relocation site the project also
financed a sound barrier at the Puskesmas rawat inap type B. This barrier is to minimize the noise from
the road. Moreover, the public facilities run well and the displaced people are happy with the new site and
some of them used their land certificates as collateral to get loans from the bank. For these reasons, the
resettlement in Weleri is considered satisfactory.

In Kaliwungu, land acquisition was completed with compensation paid in cash and the relocation of 50
households. The 50 households moved to new houses built by themselves and received land certificates.
There have been no land sales transactions at this new site. The resettlement scheme for Kaliwungu ring
road has been successful in maintaining the living standard of the displaced families, and therefore it is
considered satisfactory.



                                                       - 42 -

  Semarang

  The northern ring road in Semarang affected 28 commercial kiosks. Semarang city government moved
  them to the new location and also provided a public water tap and sanitation. The new location is around
  500 meters from the original location. This land belongs to the city of Semarang not the traders. This
  re-arrangement of the kiosks had a positive impact on the income of the traders and on the local government
  tax revenue.

  Demak

  The local government in Demak agreed to build the ring road in 1999. In total 771 households (HH) or
  equivalent were identified as being affected by the project. Most of the effect was on plots of rain fed rice
  field without access to irrigation. Different compensation options were used for land acquisition and
  resettlement. These were land consolidation, cash payment, provision of a replacement plot of land, and
  resettlement. 751 plots of rice field were acquired. In addition eighteen actual households and two schools
  were moved to a new location. For this relocation, the local government provided compensation in cash
  and new location for the eighteen households and the two schools. The relocation site was in Botorejo,
  about 5 km from the original location. The project financed a site and services, including a local road, an
  access road, electricity and water supply. Housing was built by the people from the compensation
  received. Only two out of the eighteen households occupy the serviced land provided them. The remainder
  moved to other villages and some of them stayed close to their original location, desa Jogoloyo. However
  all eighteen households still own the serviced land provided them. There have been no land sales
  transactions on these plots of land. All compensation for land acquisition has been paid and resettlement
  certification was completed well. Execution of relocation of two schools has been completed at an
  appropriate location. Due to this performance, resettlement in Demak is considered satisfactory.

  Kudus

  As is Demak, land acquisition of Kudus ring road in 1999 was executed with options of compensation in
  cash, land consolidation and relocation of the Puskesmas (community health clinic and the medical
  storehouse of the kabupaten. 152 households were affected by the project. The project financed new
  buildings for a Puskemas and the medical storehouse of the kabupaten. All land consolidation processes
  have been completed, compensation paid and land certificates have been received by the PAP.
  Resettlement in Kudus is therefore considered satisfactory.

Land acquisition and resettlement by project city
No  City/Sub-project         Year executed   # of       Compensation Method
                                             PAPs
1.  Cirebon
    Bypass section 1 and     1997-1999       173        Cash compensation and relocation,
    port access road,
    -kabupaten section
    Bypass- kota section     1999            136        Cash compensation and relocation
    Kendal
2.  Ring road Weleri         1998            141 HH     Cash compensation and relocation
3.  Ring road Kaliwungu      1998            50 HH      Cash compensation and relocation
4.  Semarang
    Northern ring road       1998            28         Cash compensation and relocation



                                                      - 43 -

5. Demak
   Ring road    1997    771 HH  Land consolidation, cash compensation,
                                replacement plot of land, and resettlement
6. Kudus
   Ring road    1997    152 HH  Land consolidation, cash compensation, and
                                relocation




                              - 44 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 27993

                                                                                                                                                                           110°13'                                                                                                I N D O N E S I A

       SUMATERA                                                                                                                                                                                                    STRATEGIC URBAN ROADS INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTH JAWA CORRIDOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kudus     PROJECT TOWNS (SEE INSET)                                             TOLL ROADS, EXISTING                        CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                      J a v a                                    S e a                                   ROAD SECTIONS BEING IMPROVED BY                                       TOLL ROADS, PLANNED                         PROVINCE (PROPINSI) CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADB AND OECF
                        Merak                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                           RIVERS
                                          D.K.I. JAKARTA                                                                                                                                                                 NORTH JAVA CORRIDOR ROUTE
                                 Cilegon
                                                    JAKARTA   Batujaya                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE ROADS                              PROVINCE (PROPINSI) BOUNDARIES
                              Serang        Tangerang            Jatiasih                                                                                             See inset below for detail
                                    Cikande                        Bekasi                     Pamanukan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                        Pandeglang               Ciledug                                                         Indramayu
                 Labuhan                        Serpoong  Kreu  Pomdokbede
                                                                 Cileungsi                           Lohbemer
               SP. Labuhan       SaketiRangkasbitungParung
                                                              Gandan               Cikampek                           Karangampel
                                                                                                     Jatibarang                                                                            Jepara
                                                                        Latiluhur  Sadong    Subang                                                                                                        Colo  Rembang
                                                      Bogor                       SP.                                                                                                   Margoyoco
             Sumar     Cibaliung                             Ciawi                PurwakartaCikamurang                  Cirebon                                                                        Kudus   Pati                  Bulu
                                 Simpang   J A W A             B A R A T                                  Palimanan             Pajagan
                Binaungen                                                                                                    Losari   Brebes      Pekalongan                             Demak                                     Jatirogo                                              Ketapang
                                       SP. KR. Hawu                                                  Cijelag  Majalengka                    Tegal             Batang    Kendal                         Jati                                          Tuban                                                Sotobar
                                                           Cibadak                   Bandung       Sumedang                                                         Weleri         Kaliwungu                        Blora
                                    Boyah        Cikembang                                                              Ketonppungan                 Pemalang                                                                                          Pakah                     Bangkalan                 Sumenep     Kalianget
                                                                Sukabumi   Selojambe           Cileumyi                                                                                                                                                                                    M A D U R A
                                                                                                  Nagrek                                     Slawi                          Semarang                      Grobogan
                                Gn. Madur                   Cikembar                                                 Kuningan                                                                                                                Ponco
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Wirosari                                TemengkarLamongan       Kamai               Omben
                                       Cisoloic Bagbagan                              Cimaung                                     Prupuk                           PagilaranBamdungan         Purwodadi                   Cepu                   Babat   Widang                           Torjun
                                               Jampanglengah                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sampang
                                                                                        Malabar                                        Tuwel     Ramdudongkal Wanayasa                                                   Padangan       Bojonegoro                  Gresik
                                                                                                                                                                    Temanggung           Bawen                                                                                  Surabaya
                                         Jampangkulon                     Pancabali               Garut           Ciamis
                                                         Sagaranten                  Pangalengan                                      JAWA TENGAH                   Wonosobo                Salatiga
                                                                                                           Tasikmalaya           Ajibanang           Purbolinggo          Secang    Pringsurat                               Ngawi                                            Sidoharjo
                                   Ujunggenteng                                                                          Banjar                                                                                                                        Mojokerto
                                                                                                                                           Purworkerto      Kaliwiro Magelang
 7°28'                                                   Sindangbarang                                                             Wangon                                             Boyolali        Palur                          Caruban    Jombang                      Gempol                                                                                            7°28'
                                                                                                                                                                                            Surakarta     Karanganyar   Madiun                         Kerto Sano                   Pasuruan
                                                                                Pameungpeuk                     Pangandaran                                                 Tempel                                                   Nganjuk
                                                                                                                                   Gumilir                          Maron               Kaliurang                                                                         Tretes
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sukoharjo                                            PL. Rejo                                          Panarukan  Situbondo
                                                                                           Cipatujah                                        Slarang  Kebumen                 Slemen            Klaten                      Magetan                                                 Lbg. Kuning       Mlandimgan
                                                                                                                                        Cilacap                Purworejo                               Wonogiri                          J A W A              Kandengan
                                                                                                    Kelapagenep                                                        Yogyakarta                                                                                              PW. Sari         Probolinggo
                                                                                                                                                                                          Pryungseminan             Purwantor                             Pare     PW. Dadi
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ngadirejo                        Kediri               Perdem
                                                                                                                                                                             Bantul      Mokam Imogirl                Dengok  Ponorogo                                             Tosari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Malang        Nongkajajar            Sunmsersari Bondowoso
                                                                                                                                                                        Parangiritis    Wonosari   Bedoyo Giriwoyo  Nawangan     Trenggalek        Srengat                                       Grobogan                                            Singaraja   Kubutambehan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Arjosari Kemlang                     Blitar      T I M U R         Wono Rejo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Turen    Lumajang          Jember                        Gilimanuk         Seririt
                                                                                                                                                                    D.I.YOGYAKARTATepusBaron                                       Jarakan     Tulungagung     Kepamjen                                                   Banyuwangi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Pacitan                                                                                    Mayong                     Cekik            B A L I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Rogojampi   Negara                Payangan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pupuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sendangbiru                        Puger    Ambulu Gentengkulom  Srono                                      Besakih
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bangunrejo       Muncar                             Amlapura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pasanggaran                     PulukanAntosari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TGC. Dling            Tabanan         Klungkung
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Grajagan                                      Gianyar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Denpassar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sanur
                                                                                  I N D I A N                                 O C E A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nusadua


                                                                                                                                                                           110°13'



 INSET                                         109°

                                                                                                                       0           20         40            60          80 KILOMETERS

                                                 J a v a                                   S e a                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                            0     20    40    60     80  KILOMETERS
    Indramayu                                                                                                          0                  20                  40                   60 MILES              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0         20        40        60 MILES
  Lohbemer                                                                                                                                                                                               or acceptance of such boundaries.

          Karangampel
                                                                                                                                                       Jepara                                                                 THAILAND                                                                              PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                  Colo                                                           South China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sea              BRUNEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P A C I F I C         O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                     Margoyoco                       Pati                                     MALAYSIA
Palimanan      Cirebon                                                                                                                                                      Kudus                                                                                  MALAYSIA
  Sumber                                Pajagan
                          Losari                Brebes    Tegal  Pemalang      Pekalongan
                                                                                                  Batang                 Kendal                   Demak                    Jati                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M            SINGAPORE

                                            Ketonppungan                                                      Weleri                 Kaliwungu                                                                                 A T                                  K A L I M A N TA N
7°                                                          Slawi                                                                                                                           7°                                    E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
          Kuningan                                                                                                                               Semarang                      Grobogan                                              A                                                           SULAWESI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SERAM
 J AWA                                  Prupuk                                                          Pagilaran                                                Purwodadi                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW
                                                                                                                                                                                  Wirosari                                                                                                                                                                   IRIAN JAYA
                                                                   Ramdudongkal                                            Bamdungan                                                                                                                       J a v a S e a                                                                                                                 PAPUA
B A R AT                                            Tuwel                                      Wanayasa                                        Bawen                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GUINEA
                                                                      J AWA                                   T E N G A H                                                                                                                 Jakarta                                        I N D O N E S I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         See inset

                                                                                               Wonosobo         Temanggung                                                                                                                                                              FLORES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        J A W A
Ciamis                                                                                                                                              Salatiga
          Banjar                          Ajibanang                          Purbolinggo                                  Secang      Pringsurat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TIMOR
                                                                 Purworkerto                Kaliwiro                 Magelang                                                                                                                                  Area of main map
                                                       Wangon                                                                                                                                           I N D I A N             O C E A N

                                               109°                                                               110°                         Boyolali             Palur           111°                                                                                                                                                             A U S T R A L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          J UNE 1 9 9 6

