Docum)ent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL  ISE ONLY
Report No. 6803
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR'T
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(`LOAN 1595-AL)
June 8, 1987
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAl uS O0 ILY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingtonm D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
01fce of D,rKtfv-Guwal
Opeatms EIvahethn
June 8, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Projelt Completion Report:  Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria Fourth Education Prolect (Loan 1595-AL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria -
Fourth Education Project (Loan 1595-AL)" prepared by the Europe, Middle
East and North Africa Regional Office. Under the modified system for
project performance auditing further evaluation of this project by the
Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
'~~~~~~~~~
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanC
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1595-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Acronym   Name of Institution (French)               Name of Institution (English)
DUCH      Direction de l'Urbanisme, de la            Directorate of Town Planning,
Construction et de l'Habitat              Construction & Housing
ENSEP     Ecole Normale Sup6rieure de                Polytechnic Teachers' Training
l'Enseignement Polytechnique              School
INDEFE    Institut National de Promotion             Industrial Worker and Apprentices
et de Development de la                   Training Extension Institute
Formation Profesionelle en
Entreprise et de l'Apprentissage
IFF(IFP)  Institut de Formation de Formateurs        Institute for Vocational
(Institut de Formation Prifessionnelle) Instructor Training
INGM      Institut National de Genie Mecanique    National Institute of Mechanical
Engineering
INGM/I    Institut National de Genie Mecanique    National Institute of Mechanical
pour Ingenieurs                           Engineering (for Engineers)
INGM/T    Institut National de Genie M6canique    National Institute of Mechanical
pour Techniciens Superieurs               Engineering for Nigher Technicians
INPED     Institut National de la Productivit6    National Institute for Industrial
et du Developpement Industriel            Development
MEIP      Ministere de l'Energie et des              Ministry of Energy and Chemical and
Industries Petrochimiques                 Petrochemical Industries
MEN       Ministere de l'Education Nationale         Ministry of Education
MEPS      Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire    Ministry of Primary and Secondary
et Secondaire                             Education
MESRS     Ministere de l'Enseignement Super eur   Ministry of Higher Education and
et de la Recherche Scientifique           Scientific Research
MFPT      Ministere de la Formation                  Ministry of Vocational Training
Professionnelle et du Travail             and Labor
MIL       Ministere de l'Industrie Lourde            Ministry of Heavy Industry
MTAS      Ministere du Travail et des Affaires    Ministry of Labor and Social
Sociales                                  Affairs
RENAFOP   R6seau National de Centres et              National Network of Vocational Trainin
Instituts de Formation Professionnelle  Centres and Institutes
SEFP      Secretariat d'Etat a la Formation          Secretariat of State for Vocational
Professionnelle                           Training
SONACOME  Societe Nationale de Construction          National Society for Metal
Metallique                                Construction
UNDP      Programme des Nations Unies de             United Nations Development Program
Developpement
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1595-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE*oooo***o*ooooooo**oo ................................... (i)
BASIC DATA SHEET..........................................   (ii)
EVALUATION SUMMARY  **       .................................. ..  (v)
SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS ..........................      (viii)
Is INTRRODUCTION ............      ................ ....  *..*.    1
II.                                                    J     CTHE PROJET ..........2
A. The Socio-Economic Settings ...........................         2
B. Manpower Needs and Educational I88UeS..................         2
C. Project Origins and Definition .........................    3
D. Agreed Modifications to the Project ....................    4
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION       ...............     ............      6
A. Educational Aspects.. ............................... ...    6
B. Physical Aspects and Procurement .......................    8
C. Bank and Borrower Performance...........................   12
D. Project Cost, Financing and Loan Disbursement ..........   13
Iv. CONCLUSIONS ..................................... 15
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1. Institutions Visited
2. List of Persons Met
3.  Project Impl.ementation Schedule
4. Cost of Project as Appraised and Revised
5. Original Loan and Amendments
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1595-AL)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report for the Fourth Eeucation
Project in Algeria (Loan 1595-AL), for which a loan of US$90.0 million was
extended to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria in September
1)78. The loan was reduced to US$75.0 million on November 22, 1981, and to
US$21.5 million on April 30, 1984.    By December 31, 1985, US$6.14 million
was disbursed and the estimated balance of US$15.36 million was cancelled.
The Project Completion Report was prepared following a field visit
by an EMENA Education mission in December 1985. The mission enjoyed the
full cooperation of the Algerian authorities.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by  OED  staff.   The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower and its agencies for comments in March 1987. A translation of
their cabled reply is shown as Attacbment I.



- ii -
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
fE-URTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1ROK-ALl
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
BASIC DAiA SHEET
A.  KeX Prgject Data
Appraisal           Current
Ite",                                        Estimate           Estimate
(05/26/78)         (12/31/8S)
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                      150.50             79.35
Underrun %                                              -                 47
Loan Amount (US$ million)                              90.00              21.50
Disbursed                                            90.00              6.14
Cancelled                                               00              83.86
Date Physical Components Completed                      12/82             12/87
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)                   100                13
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                                             224
institutional Performance                                                  Poor
S. Other Project Data
original
Item                                    Plan      Revisions       Actual
First Mention in Files                                                   03/10/76
Government's Application                                                 10/07/77
Negotiations                                                             05/09/78
Board Approval                            06/1S/78                       06/15/78
Loar Agreement Date                       09/26/78                       09/26/78
Effectiveness Date                        12/29/78                       02/28/79
Closing Date                              12/31/84                       12/31/84
Borrower                                  Democratic & Popular Republic of
Algeria
Executing Agencie; (initial)              1. Ministry of Heavy Industry
2. Ministry of Labor & Social Affairs
3. Ministry of Higher Education
Executing Agencies (final)                1. Ministry of Heavy Industry
2. Ministry of Vocational Training
& Labor
3. Hinistry of Higher Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower                   January I - Oecember 31
Follow-on Projvct                         Fifth Education Project
Loan Number                             Loan 1803-AL
Amount (USS million)                    87.0
Loan Agreement Date                     March 26. 1980



- i:i -
C. Comparison of Actual and Estimated Cumulative Oisbursements
(US$ Million)
FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Appraisal estimate     0.0    3.7   15.1   48.6   80.6   88.3   90.0   90.0   90.0
Actual disbursement    0.0    0.7    1.8    2.8    2.9    3.0    4.2    4.3    6.1
Actual as X of         0.0   18.9   11.9    5.8    3.6    3.4    4.7    4.8    6.8
estimate
0. Country Exchanae Rates
Name of Currency (abbreviation)           Algerian Dinar (DA)
Appraisal Year (1978)                     US$1.00   D DA 4.05
intervening Years' Average                US$1.00 5 DA 4.30
Completion Year (1985)                    US$1.00 = DA 4.85
E.  Loan Allocation and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
!                      !                 I               I                !                I                !
Original     I Loan After    I Loan After    i Loan After    I Loan at Closingl
I     Loan       ! Amendment #1  ! Amendment #2  1 Amendment #3  1  of Accounts  I
I        !                l                !                !               !~~~~~~~~~ I
IOate                  ISigned:09/26/78 !   03/04/81    !   11/22/81    !  04/30/84    1    12/31/85    1
ILoan Amount                 90.0        1     90.0      !      75.0      !     21.5       1      21.3      t
lAmount Cancelled      i      -                  -       !      15.0             53.5     1      15.4
!                      !                 !               I                !                !                !
!                      !                 !               !I               I                ! 
TVoes of Exoenditures! !               !                !               !
!(1) Civil works       !     37.6        !     3S.8      !     20.8       i      3.0       !       2.75     1
1(2) Furn. + Equip.    !     35.7        !     36.7       1     36.7             8.0       !       0.49     !
!(3) Experts (Prof.)   !      4.2        !      4.2       1     4.2       !      7.0       1       2.90
1(4) Experts (Part E+F)l      6.3        !      7.1      !       7.1      !      0.0       !       0.00     I
I(S) Unallocated       !      6.2        !      6.2      !      6.2       !      3.5       1       0.00     1
!        Total         I    9            !     9         I    ZIA         !     2                      
!  !             !                !                 I                               I
Doc. No. 2989V pg. 7



- iv -
F. Mission Data
Sent             No. of   Composition       Staff   Date of
Type of Mission       By     Date     Weeks    of Mission*       Weeks   Report
Reconnaissance-in-
Depth               Bank    04/76       2.0      a                2.0    06/10/76
Identification       Bank    06/76      3.0       d                3.0    07/02/76
Pre-preparation      Bank    12/76       3.0      b,c,d            9.0    01/04/77
Pre-Preparation      Bank    33/77       2.2      b,c,d            6.6    04/19/77
Preparation          Bank    04/77       3.0      b,c,d            9.0    06/29/77
Appraisal             Bank    10/77      3.5      a,b,c,d         14.0    05/28/78
Post-Appraisal       Bank    06/78       1.0      b                1.0    06/15/78
Subtotal                                                      44.6
SUPERVISION
Supervision     I    Bank    10/78      0.2       a,b,c            0.6    10/25/78
Supervision    II    Bank    01/79       1.0      b                1.0    02/22/79
Supe: tsion   III    Bank    06/79      0.2       a,b,c            0.6    06/27/79
Supervision    IV    Bank    10/79      0.2       a,b,c            0.6    11/02/79
Supervision     V    Bank    10/79       0.2      a,b,c            0.6    11/30/79
Supervision    VI    Banl.   06/80       0.8      a,b,c            2.4    07/21/80
Supervision   VII    Bank    02/81       0.2      b,c              0.4    03/26/81
Supervision  VIII    Bank    11/81       0.4      a,b,c            1.2    12/04/81
Supervision    IX    Bank    02/82       0.2      b                0.2    03/12/82
Supervision     X    Bank    04/82       0.6      a,b,c            1.8    05/10/82
Supervision    XI    Bank    11/82       0.6      a,b,c            1.8    11/24/82
Supervision   XII    Bank    02/83       0.5      a                0.5    03/02/83
Supervision  XIII    Bank    05/83       0.4      a,b              1.2    06/20/83
Supervision   XIV    Bank    10/83       0.3      a,b              0.6    11/17/83
Supervision    XV    Bank    05/84       0.2      a                0.2    06/08/84
Supervision   XVJ    Bank    11/84       0.3      a,c              0.6    12/07/84
Supervision  XVII    Bank    06/85       0.6      b                0.6    06/18/85
Supervision XVIII    Bank    09/85       0.4      a,b              0.8    10/09/85
Completion            Bank    12/85      1.3      b,c              2.6    05/15/86
Sub-Total                                                         18.3
*Indicate Specialty: (a) Education Planner; (b) Architect;
(c) Technical Educator; (d) Economist.



- v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1595-AL)
EVALUATION St)MMARY
Introduction
The project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1976, follow-
ing sector discussions in the context of a Programs mission in March 1976.
After project preparation in April and appraisal in October 1977, a loan of
US$90 million was approved by the Board in June 1978 and became effective
in February 1979. The loan was closed as foreseen on December 31, 1984,
with cumulative cancellations amounting to almost US$84 million.
Oblectives and Prolect Content
The purpose of the project was to increase the supply of graduate
level mechanical engineers and higher technicians and to assist in the
development of secondary technical teachers and vocational instructors
training (para. 1.02).
The project included the establishment of two National Institutes
of Mechanical Engineering (INGM/I and INGM/T) for the training of engineers
and higher technicians, respectively, and of a Vocational Instructor
Training Institute (IFF); the conversion and expansion of a Technical
Teacher Training College (ENSEP), and specialist services and fellowships
in support of these components and of planning and administration in the
Ministries of Education and Higher Education. Finally, the project foresaw
a number of feasibility studies (para. 2.11). Subsequent modifications
included the halving of the size of the IFF (combined with the introduction
of double-shift teaching which maintained the appraised capacity), the
savings being used for the equipping of a second IFF not included in the
original project; and the use of existing facilities for the two INGM which
led to the cancellation of the relevant loan allocations for civil works
(para. 2.12).
Implementation experience
On the whole, the project exrzrience has been disappointing,
due to a combination of physical, economic and institutional factors.
Physical factors including site difficulties (compounded by intense inter-
ministerial competition for scarce suitable sites) and the 1980 El Asnam
earthquake  which  required  a   temporary  redirection  of  the  country's
construction  capacities  (paras.  3.11-3.14,  2.02).    Substantial  price



- vi -
increases for hydrocarbon products changed the country's revenue position
and with it, its attitude vis-a-vis external project financing in general
and ICB procedures in particular (para. 2.01). Finally, the devolution, in
the late 1970's, of project implementation responsibilities from central
Government to provincial (Wilays) authorities (the latter with a dearth of
experienced staff) and the dual structure of decision making in post-
secondary education (with the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research in its role as National Coordinator often at variance with the
views  of  the  various   lin    agencies   that  had  their  own  training
institutions) made for additional delays and project changes (paras. 3.26-
3.29).
At the time of the completion mission in December 1985, the
following physical development had been realized: Government was financing
from its own budget the construction of one INGM (for both engineers and
technicians training), expected to be completed in 1987; the loan financed
equipment purchases (US$0.5 million) for use in temporary INGM facilities
(paras. 3.15-3.16). The Vocational Instructor Training Institute had been
built under the project and started operations in September 1985; however,
time constraints arising from the long delays did not permit financing of
equipment purchases under the loan (paras. 3.18-3.19). Civil works for the
expansion of the Technical Teachers Training College were finished in early
1982, with a loan financing of almost US$0.9 million for civil works and
professional fees. Equipment procurement ran into delays and was eventual-
ly financed by the Government (paras.  3.20-3.21).   A total of five feasi-
bility studies were prepared but only one led to follow-up investment under
the fifth  education  project  (paras.  3.10,  3.22-3.24).    Finally, loan
allocations  for  Specialist  Services   and  Fellowships  remained  unused
although some of the proposed activities were financed from other sources
(paras. 3.04, 3.07 and 3.09).
Prolect Outcome
In view of the beforementioned delays, it is too early for all but
very tentative conclusions about the operation of the project institutions.
The PCR fou-nd that the quality of INGM courses was high and that the loan
financed  equipment  was  fully  utilized  (para.  3.04).    The Vocational
Instructor Training Institute, despite the above mentioned reduction in
size, is still underutilized (even on a one shift basis instead of the
envisaged double shift use), with an enrollment of only 300. Lack of
equipment and of instructor-trainers are in part responsible for the low
enrollment level. The teaching staff consists of eight expatriates and
four national trainers, the latter with insufficient preparation. A staff
training component in the loan remained unused (paras. 3.06-3.07). The
Technical Teacher Training College (ENSEP) is also showing enrollment
shortfalls, partly caused by a lack of qualified instructors and partly by
difficulties  in  recruiting  trainees.    The  technical  teacher training
problem in the secondary schools is being addressed through a cofinanced TA
component in the fifth project (assisted by Belgium and UND?) which so far
has prepared 190 Algerian secondary technical school directors, teachers
and workshop instructors (paras. 3.09 and 3.27).



- vii -
Sustainability
Despite the troubled implementation history of the project, the
future of the project institutions is probably b:ighter than would appear
at first sight. The core of the project concept has not been affected by
the delays and uncertainties concerning school location, implementation
procedures, and financing modalities, and the Government is carrying out
the physical investments, albeit on a reduced scale and a stretched
schedule. The reductions in the capacities of the project institutions are
not only an appropriate response to changing economic conditions affecting
the demand for the schools' output, but have also reduced the risk of
creating costly excess capacities.   However,  in so far as underenrollment
in ENSEP (and possibly IFF as well) is the result of insufficient demand
for this type of training and the careers it leads to the question of
sustainability transcends the area of mere financing and staffing con-
straints and would thus be more difficult to address.
Conclusions
Despite the very specific set of economic and political circum-
stances which characterized the project environment, a few general conclu-
sions can be derived  from  this  experience:    the  first  is the all too
frequent observation that overlapping and conflicting responsibilities of
various Government agencies are bound to have a deleterious effect on
project implementation, as have changes in implementation arrangements (in
this case the shift towards decentralization) without an adequate institu-
tional base. The second is the desirability of a mid-term review, partic-
ularly in the c&se of a large and/or complex project and in countries with
a history of substantial fund cancellations, with the explicit option of
bringing the project to an early close if the review reveals e.g., dis-
agreement on basic procedures.    This  would save the Borrower unnecessary
cost (in this particular  case,  the  commitment  charges of US$3.2 million
(para. 3.35) exceeded 50% of total disbursements) and both borrower and
Bank staff the continuous frustration of work done well but in vain.



- viii -
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH LDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1595-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
Summary
1.       A Bank Loan (Loan 1595-AL) for US$90.0 million was extended to the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria in 1978 to assist the Government's
continuing program to improve and expand its output of mechanical engineers,
higher-level technicians, technical teachers, and vocational instructors in
the context of the country's rapid industrial expansion (para. 1.02).
2.       The Loan provided financing for (a) design, construction, furnishing,
and equipping of a Natioral Institute of Mechanical Engineering (INGM)
organized in two units, one to train mechanical en3ineers, to be located at
Setif (INGM/I), the other to train higher technicians, at Tiaret (INGM/T); (b)
design, construction, furnishing, and equipping of an Institute for Vocational
Instructor Training (IFF) at Annaba; (c) conversion, expansion, furnishing,
and equipping of a Technical Training College (ENSEP) at Oran; (d) technical
assistance for the institutes listed above to provide professional services
and fellowships for national staff; and (e) studies for the development of:
i) a national institute and a network of training centers for maintenance
trades for the Ministry of Light Industry; (ii) a system for radio and
television courses in vocational training for the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs (MTAS), now Ministry of Vocational Training and Labor (MFPT); and
(iii) a national institute for pedagogical research on vocational training,
also for the MTAS (para. 2.11).
3.       Project preparation took place during a period of intense Dank
involvement in Algeria, and of rapid industrial expansion. During the late
1970's, however, massive increases in hydrocarbon revenues led to a much
reduced commitment on the part of the Government to utilize Loan funds. At
the same time, the desire to develop the national contracting industry
encouraged a reluctance to follow international competitive bidding (ICB)
procurement procedures for civil works which is typical in marny centrally
planned economies (para. 2.01).
4.       Implementation was further hindered by two events of major
importance. The first was the decision of the Government to decentralize
responsibility from the capital to the provinces (wilayate), and the second
was the catastrophic earthquake at El Asnam (renamed Chlef) in 1980. Both of
these unforeseeable events had a negative impact on project implementation.
The first resulted in shifting Project implementation responsibility from
Project staff in the technical ministries to untrained wilaya officials, and
the second resulted in the reallocation of resources from the Project for
eighteen months (para. 2.02).



- ix -
5.       Weakened commitment, shifted resources and staff turn-over, as well
as procrastination in procurement procedures, repeatedly delayed Project
implementation, and led to three amendments which reduced the Loan from the
original amount of US$90.0 to US$21.5 million (para. 2.12). The Project had
no extension to the closing date, and, at the time of the completion mission,
two of the three institutions were in operation.
INGM
6.       The design phase of the Institute was successfully completed by the
competent team work of the INGM engineers and their architects, with
significant direct Bank technical assistance. Equipment, procured under ICB
guidelines, professional fees, and fellowships were financed under the Loan,
but construction, delayed by indecision and successive changes as to the
location of the principal institution (INGM), is only now underway at
Boumerdes, financed by the Government (para. 3.02 and 3.11).
IFF
7.       The design and construction of the IFF were financed under the Loan.
Procurement of civil works at Annaba proceeded in conformity with Bank ICB
guidelines, but implementation was delayed by cement shortages, turn-over of
project statf and shift of responsibility to local staff. Neither the
technical assistance nor the equipment could be procured before the Loan
closing date, in spite of early and repeated offers of assistance by Bank
supervision missions. The MFPT is now attempting to fill these gaps with
bi-lateral assistance and Government funds (para. 3.05 and 3.17).
ENSEP
8.       After seven months of delays, due to problems with building
foundations, the extension to the Oran ENSEP was built in accordance with Bank
guidelines. However, contracts for equipment and technical assistance, which
could have been financed by the Loan, were not presented to the Bank, despite
repeated reminders, and were financed by the Government (para. 3.08 and 3.20).
STUDIES
9.       The Project included three studies, which were all completed: the
first, for the Ministry of Light Industry, led to a component of the Fifth
Project, which the Government cancelled because of an administrative
reorganisation and the re-assignment of training responsibilities to MTAS; the
second, for the MTAS, addressing distance learning in vocational training, was
rejected, by Bank and Borrower, as not being cost-effective; and the third,
for the MTAS, ultimately led, with significant input from the Bank staff, to a
successful component (INDEFE) of the Fifth Education Project (para. 3.10 and
3.24).



-x-
Conclusions
10.      The more successful aspects of the project are: (a) all training
components are now under way; (b) two institutions have been built (IFF and
ENSEP) and two equipped (INGM existing and ENSEP); (c) two institutions are
operational (IFF and ENSEP), and the third (new INGM) is scheduled to be
operational in 1988; (d) the Project attracted additional bi-lateral
as3istance for the INGM (fellowships) and the IFF (trainers); (e) the studies
prepared the way for a successful institution (INDEFE) financed under the
Fifth Education Project; (f) procurement was initially an issue, but was
resolved and Bank guidelines were followed; and (g) Project objectives were
sound and remain valid today since the Borrower is financing the completion of
the Project (IFF equipment, and new INGM civil works and equipment),
11.      INGM civil works implementation was disappointing because, despite
earlier site identification and persistent site acquisition efforts, the
identified sites were taken by other ministries. Consequently, the eventual
site for the new INGM was not acquired until after the closing date of the
Loan (para. 3.13 and 3.14) and the major portion of the Loan proceeds (civil
works and equipment for the new INGM) were not utilized. Furthermore the
technical assistance specified at appraisal for the IFF was not financed by
the Loan because preselection of possible sources of technical assistance had
not been completed, after two years of hesitation, before the Loan closing
date. For similar reasons the IFF equipment was not financed by the Loan
(para. 3.35).
12.      At the start of the Project the ministries had appointed qualified
and competent staff. The MIL maintained the INGM team in place throughout the
Project, and, were it not for inter-ministerial competition which interfered
with site acquisition, there is no doubt that this component weuld have been
successfully completed. No doubt also that the IFF technical assistance and
equipment :,ould have been implemented if the same MFPT team had been in place
earlier in the Project.
13.      A study (para. 3.10 and 3.24) proposed a system for the follow-up and
control of all aspects of the National Network of Vocational Training Centers
and Institutes (RENAFOP) of the MFPT. It would be appropriate for the
Government to reconsider the sti.dy recommendations and particularly the
recommendation to provide for institution-building within the directorates of
the Ministry of Vocational Training and Labor.
Lessons
14.      The major lessons learned are that project management should be
assigned to a single authority with leverage to resolve issues and establish
priorities (para. 4.03) and that the shift in responsibility from central
government to local authorities for project implementation is a major
operation which requires careful planning, preparation, and training of wilaya
staff in project management (para. 4.04).



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1595-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     A mission comprising Mr. 0. de Messi6res (architect) and a
consultant, Mr. E. Chittleburgh (training specialist), visited Algeria from
December 3 to 12, 1985. In accordance with terms of reference dated December
2, 1985, the mission carried out a completion review of the Fourth Education
Project, financed under Loan 1595-AL which was signed on September 26, 1978.
1.02     The Project was designed to support the Government's manpower
objectives arising from the country's rapid industrial expansion by:
a)   increasing the annual output of graduate level mechanical engineers
and higher technicians;
b)   supplying an adequate number of trained technical teachers to work in
the expanding network of secondary technical schools (technicums); and
c)   establishing the first of four institutes for the training of
qualified vocational instructors to work in the nationwide network of
vocational training centers.
1.03     Although the Project was considerably reduced in scale during
implementation, the Government held firm to its resolve to establish all the
proposed institutions, but at its own pace. Two of the three institutions
planned were completed when the accounts were closed on December 31, 1985 (one
year after the closing date of the Project).
1.04     The activities of the completion mission included visits to Project
institutions under the Ministry of Vocational Training and Labor, the Ministry
of Heavy Industry, as well as visits to the Ministry of Finance, and UNDP.
Discussions were held with senior officials of these ministries, Directors of
project training programs, Directors of Project institutions, instructors and
students. In addition, the mission met with responsible wilaya personnel to
discuss problems encountered during Project implementation. The Algerian
authorities were cooperative and unstinting in their allocation of time to the
mission.



- 2 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. The Socio-Economic Setting
2.01     Between 1973 and the end of the decade, the Bank was engaged in a
period of intense involvement with Algeria. Twenty-three loans totalling
US$1,120.5 million were approved. This period was one of rapid industrial
expansion following the massive increases in hydrocarbon revenues in 1974 and,
again, in 1979. The substantially increased revenues eventually led to a
change in the Government's attitude and commitment to external financing of
the project. A policy to develop the national construction industry led to a
reluctance, typical of centrally planned economies, to follow Bank ICB
procedures on civil works procurement, which were also seen to be constraining
and overly complicated.
2.02     Two important events which took place at the end of the decade also
assumed importance as far as implementation of the Project was concerned.
First, fiscal and technical responsibility for physical Project implementation
was transferred from government ministries to largely untrained local staff,
working in the provinces (wilayate). Second, the El Asnam earthquake (October
1980) was a disaster of such magnitude that the entire country's resources
were diverted from Project activities for some eighteen months to rehouslng
the thousands of victims.
2.03     The combination of rapidly increasing revenues, the policy of
decentralization, and the social imperative of the El Asnam earthquake
together produced a climate in which Project implementation was severely
affected.
B. Manpower Needs and Educational Issues.
2.04     The Algerian Government's Development Plan for 1974-7- encouraged the
development of mechanical engineering industries manufacturing capital goods
for various sectors of the economy. The National Charter, approved by
referendum in June 1977, identified the rapid expansion of skilled technical
manpower training as a principal strategy of achieving industrialization goals.
2.05     The technical ministries, especially the Ministry of Vocational
Training and Labor (MFPT), the Ministry of Energy and Petrochemical Industries
(MEIP), and the Ministry of Heavy Industry (MIL), play an important role in
the implementation of national policy for the nation's education and training
sector by training their own professional and sub-professional personnel in
post-secondary institutes of technology administered and staffed by the
individual ministries. This policy was adopted in the late 1960s to
compensate for the comparatively small and overly theoretical output from the



- 3 -
engineering faculties in the Universities by producing more job-oriented
engineers and higher technicians, and included plans for the establishment of
a new MIL institute to train higher-level technicians and engineers.
2.06     A rapid expansion of vocational training at the skilled and
semi-skilled worker level, which was initiated by the MFPT during the late
1970s, highlighted the need for a large number of adequately trained workshop
instructors, while a parallel increase in the number of technicums created the
need for the training of instructors competent in a variety of building,
mechanical and electrical subjects for these schools.
C. Project Origins and Definition
2.07     During discussions in Algeria in March 1976, at which time the Third
Education Project was about to be appraised, a Programs mission from the Bank
discussed the content of a possible Fourth Education Project with the MESRS,
the Ministries of Primary and Secondary Education (MEPS), Labor and Social
Affairs (MTAS - as it was then), and MIL. At that time, the MESRS was seeking
Bank assistance for the establishment of 3 new universities, at Annaba, Blida
and Tiaret, while the MEPS favored continuing support for the creation of the
network of technicums. Bank policy on education lending at the time tended
not to favor the university proposal submitted by the MESRS because of Bank
concerns related to government policy on higher education. The Bank felt that
a major rationalization of higher education, including studies on investment
and recurrent costs, admissions, and scholarships should be a prerequisite to
lending in the higher education sector. It was also decided that the Fourth
Education Project would not include assistance towards building and equipping
new technicums because the major constraint on vocational training was the
shortage of workshop instructors and technicum teachers.
2.08     To meet the urgent needs for higher-level technicians and engineers,
it was agreed that the Project would include the new MIL institute (INGM).
Later, for administrative reasons, the MIL decided to divide INGM into two
units: INGM/I (for engineers) and INGN/I (for higher technicians).
2.09     The MTAS, aware of its expanding role in the field of vocational
training, submitted a tentative program for the development of institutes for
training workshop instructors. It was therefore agreed that the Project would
include the first of four institutes (IFF) for the training of workshop
instructors.
2.10     The MESRS agreed to replace the university proposal with a project
component aimed at expanding the scope of the Ecole Normale Superieure de
l'Enseignement Polytechnique (ENSEP) at Oran, which was to be oriented to the
training of technicum teachers to meet the needs of the expanding network of
technicums (schools aimed at local employment needs for technicians, focussed
on the world of work rather than on access to university education). The
ENSEP proposal was acceptable to the Bank because it would provide technical
teaching staff for the technicums being established under the Third Education
Project.



-4-
2.11    The Project, as appraised, consisted of:
Part A:   The design, construct .on, furnishing and equipping of a National
Institute of Mechanical Engineering (INGM/I) at Setif for the
training of engineers in a five-year course at secondary level.
Part B:   The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of a National
Institute of Mechanical Engineering (INGM/T) at Tiaret for the
training of higher technicians in a two-year course at
post-secondary level.
Part C:   The design, construction, furnishing and equipping of an
Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (IFF) at Annaba for
the training of workshop instructors for the national network of
vocational trai:ing centers.
Part D:   The conversion, expansion, furnishing and equipping of the
Technical Teacher Training College (ENSEP) at Oran for the
training of technicum teachers.
Part E:   (a) Technical assistance to provide experts to teach in the
institutes included in Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, and
fellowship training for the replacement of such experts;
(b) Technical assistance to the Ministries of Education and
Higher Education to install improved planning and administration
systems.
Part F:   Studies:
(1) For the Ministry of Light Industry, to develop a national
institute and network of training centers for maintenance trades;
(2) For the NTAS, to review the feasibility of establishing a
system of distance learning for vocational training; and
(3) For the MTAS, to develop a national institute for
pedagogical research in vocational training.
D. Agreed Modifications to the Project
2.12     The Project was amended three times, and funds were cancelled twice
and there was one reallocation.
Amendment 1 - (March 4, 1981)
At the request of the Government, the size of the IFF in Annaba
was reduced from a capacity of 1,000 trainees to 500. It was
intended that the same output would be achieved by a system of
"double shifts". The expected savings in civil works, amounting



- 5 -
to US$3.8 million, were reallocated for the procurement of
training equipment for a second IFF at Setif, which had not been
included in the original project.
Amendment 2 - (November 22, 1981)
The INGM staff identified existing facilities near Constantine
and Tiaret. The government then decided to reduce financing of
civil works and US$15.0 million were cancelled from the Loan.
Amendment 3 - (April 30, 1984)
When it became clear that disbursements would be severely
restricted by the date of Loan closing, a sum of US$53.5 million
was cancelled from the Loan to reduce the Government's
commitment costs.



- 6 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Educational Aspects
3.01     The Project supported three important initiatives by the Government
prompted by the acknowledged serious shortage of technical personnel at all
levels: first, the creation, for the Ministry of Heavy Industry (MIL), of an
Institute of Mechanical Engineering (INGM) which would graduate 225 engineers
and 550 higher technicians annua'.ly; second, the creation, for the Ministry of
Labor and Social Affairs (MTAS), later Ministry of Vocational Training (MFP)
and Ministry of Vocational Training and Labor (MFPT), of the first of tour
institutes (IFF) for the training of 450 workshop instructors needed annually
to staff the rapidly expanding netwcrk of vocational training centers, and
third, the expansion, for the Ministry of Higher Education (MESRS), of the
Technical Teacher Training facility (ENSEP) in Oran, making it capable of
graduating annually about 260 technical teachers who would staff the emerging
nation-wide network of technicums being implemented by the Ministry of
Education (MEN).
3.02     The INGM began operations in temporary buildings at Boumerdes in
September 1975. The curriculum for both engineering and technician students
was revised in December 1977 following studies by French and American
consortia. The Project aimed at establishing a two-unit Institute (INGM) to
replace the Boumerdbs facility: INGM/I at Setif, with a five-year program for
1,200 student engineers, and INGM/T at Tiaret, with a two-year program for
1,200 student technicians.
3.03     Neither of the INGM units have been established at this time because
of setbacks described below (para 3.11). However, the Loan has financed
equipment for the existing INGM programs, and the Government is financing a
new INGM to be completed in 1987. The existing facility has graduated 316
engineers and 554 higher technicians since 1975, with a current enrollment of
264 and 301 respectively. The new Institute will accommodate 1,000 student
places. This will meet the needs for engineers and higher technicians, as now
perceived, which are somewhat less than foreseen at appraisal because many
large industrial projects then planned have been cancelled or scaled-down for
economic reasons. Later Government policy, however, specified that the
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS), which is
responsible for all post-secondary formal education, will eventually also
assume responsibility for the Institutes of Technology. This decision led to
a state of uncertainty and to inevitable rivalries between the MESRS and the
technical ministries which impeded project progress.
3.04     The technical assistance program financed by the Loan included
professional services which are expected to have a positive impact on the
design of the new Institute, and six fellowships in French institutions.
However, a total of 18 INGM faculty members was trained Lbroad, the Government
preferring, in most cases, bilateral grant aid rather than IBRD funds for this
purpose. The mission found that the quality of the courses given at
Boumerdes, which include computer training, is high, and that the
Bank-financed equipment has been correctly installed and is fully utilized.



- 7 -
3.05     The IFF is located in Annaba, a city which has experienced rapid
industrial growth and is the home of two large heavy engineering companies,
SNS and SN-Metal. It was estimated at appraisal that 1,000 training places
were required, so that the annual output of a two-year course for
workshop/vocational instructors would be almost 450 (allowing for wastage).
The Government's plan to set-up a national network of vocational training
centers (200 established between 1981 and 1985) indicated that approximately
6,000 instructors would eventually be needed, and the IFF at Annaba was to be
the first of several such institutes. A second IFF at Setif was planned at
the same time as the one at Annaba, but its construction was even more
severely delayed than Annaba's, and it was only 75% completed in December 1985.
3.06     The MFPT decided, in 1981, to reduce the size of the Annaba IFF from
1,000 places, as appraised, to 500. However, the same annual output of 450
instructors was retained in the plan to be achieved through a system of
"double-shifts" in the classrooms and workshops. The Institute was built, but
not equipped, under the Loan (para 3.17). Current enrollment is 300 trainees,
which is expected to increase to 500 when sufficient equipment and
instructional staff are in place.
3.07     The mission considers that the Annaba IFF will be generally suitable
for its task, although it is currencly greatly under-utilized because of lack
of equipment in several workshops. The completion mission observed two
workshops and one drafting classroom operating with inadequate equipment
financed by the Government. There is also a severe shortage of instructional
staff. Only eight foreign experts, funded through bilateral arrangements with
the USSR and North Korea, plus four national instructors were in place in
December 1985. The latter are not adequately trained and the quality of the
instruction being given to the future workshop instructors is in doubt. The
sum of US$750,000, included in the Loan for training fellowships for local
instructors at the IFF, was not disbursed. Despite repeated efforts by Bank
staff to assist the Ministry in implementing these fellowships, continued
delays were experienced by the Ministry in identifying, and then in
following-up, appropriate training resources abroad which could provide the
wide-spread of specializations planned for the vocational centers.
Notwithstanding these delays and rehortcomings, and administrative changes, the
MFPT Training Directorate pursued, during the preparation of the Institute, a
vigorous training program in temporary quarters.
3.08     The ENSEP was established in Oran in 1973 to provide pedagogical and
technical courses for future lycee teachers. When the Government decided to
concentrate secondary technical education in the new work-oriented technicums,
the ENSEP was to train technicum teachers, making it necessary to expand the
scope of technical courses significantly.
3.09     The Project was intended to assist with this expansion by providing
academic, laboratory and workshop places for an extra 100 students, as well as
equipment and technical assistance. The civil works were completed in 1983,
two years behind the appraisal schedule (para 3.20). Curriculum preparation
and equipment procurement for the proposed new programs, mostly on civil
engineering subjects, were hampered by delays in the signing of contracts
(para 3.21). Because contracts were not sent to the Bank, despite repeated
reminders, the equipment was purchased from Government funds. Civil works
were completed to the satisfaction of a Bank supervision mission in 1984, and
it is expected that, eventually, the enlarged ENSEP will perform the function
for which it was intended. The Institute's current output, however, is siiort



- 8 -
of meeting the needs of the technicums because it is not yet fully integrated
into the technicum system. Further, the Institute lacks qualified staff and
has been having difficulties in recruiting trainees. However, this
shortcoming is being addressed by a technical assistance component,
co-financed under the Fifth Education Project, and funded by the Belgian
Government and UNDP, which has already trained twenty technicum headmasters,
twenty workshop instructors, and one hundred and fifty technicum teachers in
Belgium and at the ILO Turin center (para. 3.27).
3.10     Three Feasibility Studies were conducted under the Project and all
were completed. The first study (for the Ministry of Light Industry) led to a
component under this Miaistry, in the Fifth Education Project, designed to
develop a national institute and network of training centers for maintenance
trades, which was not implemented because of a transfer of responsibilities
from the Ministry of Light Industry to the MFP (para 3.22). The second study
(for the MTAS) reviewed the feasibility of establishing a system of
distance-learning for vocational training, but its recommendations were
rejected by both the Government and the Bank because the system was not
considered cost-effective (para 3.23). The third study (for the MTAS)
proposed the development of a national institute for pedagogical research in
vocational training (para 3.24). The Ministry and the Bank found this
proposal redundant and over-theoretical. At the urging of the Minister the
Bank prepared two new studies. The first new study, conducted by Bank staff
with UNDP/ILO assistance, proposed a program of technical assistance to the
MFPT with the objectives to conceive and implement a system (RENAFOP) for the
vigorous follow-up and control of all aspects of the National Network of
Vocational Training Centers (VTC's) and Institutes. Specifically, the
objectives were to provide institution building within the Ministry's
directorates in the areas of (a) coordination and supervision of civil works;
(b) selection, procurement, delivery and reception of equipment; (c)
accounting; (d) management of the MFPT/VTC's and institutes; and (e) personnel
and training. The study was successfully completed, accepted by the Ministry,
and resulted in a UNDP project document. However, the Ministry then decided
to defer signing the project document until the Industrial Training Institutr,
(see below) was established. The matter was subsequently postponed
indefinitely. However, the need for the system still remains. The second new
study was for the design of an industrial training (extension) institute which
would include provisions for an apprenticeship program for industry. The
study was successfully completed and the Industrial Training Institute
(INDEFE) was financed under the Fifth Project, and is operational and
performing satisfactorily.
B. Physical Aspects and Procurement
3.11     The Institute of Mechanical Engineering (INGM).  This component began
encouragingly witb outstanding performances by the Canadian architect and the
Ministry o, Heavy Industry (MIL) technical staff. Two months after Loan
effectiveness, preliminary drawings were accepted by the Bank. A first site
in Setif, found by the surveyors and soil engineers to be unsuitable in shape
and costly to prepare, was rejected (1978), and traded shortly afterwards for
a suitable 18 hectare property, without delay to the schedule. Bidding
documents were reviewed in Washington in August 1980 and approved by the
Bank. International Competitive Bidding (ICB) was conducted early in 1981 in



- 9 -
conformity with Bank guidelines. Out of fourteen pre-qualified bidders,
however, only eight withdrew bid documents, and only two tendered. One bid
was judged incomplete, the remaining single bid was not opened, and the
tendering process was declared invalid in July 1981. The Bank approved the
procedure, although it would have had no objection to the opening of the
single valid bid.
3.12     Then, showing a great deal of resourcefulness, the MIL staff, in
order to expedite the establishment of the INGM, proposed, as an alternative,
to convert workshops and training facilities for higher technicians at two
plants (Constintine and Tiaret) owned by the Societ6 Nationale de Construction
M6tallique (SONACOME), and to retain existing facilities at Boumerdes for the
training of engineers, thereby achieving an important reduction in the
original cost of the civil works. This procedure was adopted, and the Loan
was reduced by US$15.0 million (second amendment, November 22, 1981).
3.13     The strategy of the MIL, however, was thwarted when the proposed use
of SONACOME facilities for higher technicians was opposed by the MESRS. After
a lengthy period of uncertainty, the MESRS took over the facilities with the
apparent intent of easing the pressure on the accommodations of the Ministry,
caused by a large increase in the number of university students. This move
highlighted the need for coordination between the MESRS, which is responsible
for all post-secondary technical education and training, and those technical
ministries, such as the MIL, which had set-up their own education and training
facilities to produce engineers and technicians with the required
specializations.
3.14     Facing this new set-back, the MIL then proposed locating the INGM for
engineers at Boumerd'es, but the first site selected was reassigned to the
National Institute for Industrial Development (INPED) by the Ministry of
Petroleum (MEIP), and a second possible site das still occupied by the
National Institute of Electricity, which had not been able to move on schedule
to its new facilities at Tlemcen. Eventually, a Boumerdes site was allocated
to the INGM, and, in a last effort to implement the civil works under the
Loan, the Bank proposed that the architectural plans be amended for the new
location. The MIL agreed, and the consultant architects and the MIL technical
staff met at the Bank to start work, but the MIL was then instructed by higher
authority that a new selection of architects should be made, with an emphasis
on retaining local services. The Bank did not agree because re-opening the
selection process (which itself might take a year or more) meant that no
reasonable implementation schedule could be drawn-up for the Institute.
3.15     With the approach of the Loan closing date (December 31, 1984), it
was concluded that the INGM civil works could not be financed by the Loan
(third amendment, April 30, 1984). Finally, the MIL, pressed by the urgent
need for new facilities, retained a local architectural consultant to modify
the existing designs. Construction, started in December 1985, is expected to
be completed in late 1987. The civil works, estimated at US$29.4 million
equivalent, are financed by the Borrower.
3.16     The equipment needs of the INGM had been reduced when it had been
decided to build only one institute. Eventually, it was limited (third
amendment, April 30, 1984) to the needs of the existing Institute at
Boumerdes. This equipment was procured without difficulties, in conformity
with ICB guidelines, and financed by the Loan (US$0.49 million).



- 10 -
3.17     The Institute for Vocational Inscructor Training (IFF).  This
component, originating in a 1977 study financed under the Second Education
Project, was implemented under the administration of three ministries: MTAS,
MFP and MFPT, and a Secretariat of State for Vocational Training (SEFP), with
the unavoidable turnover of ministry leadership and project staff. An
architectural contract was promptly signed in 1978. The design of the
prototype plan for the Institute was based on an enrollment of 1,000 trainees,
and a general procurement notice was published in the Development Forum on
July 17, 1980. Before this, however, delays in site selection had caused
postponement of the date of Loan effectiveness to November 9, 1979. A first
site in Annaba, visited by the appraisal mission in October 1977, was later
encumbered by a large underground gas line and had to be abandoned. At this
time the MFPT decided to reduce the size of the Annaba IFF (para 3.06) and the
Loan Agreement was amended accordingly (first amendment, March 4, 1981).
3.18     The MFPT followed strictly Bank procurement guidelines, but ICB
produced a single bid. A contract, negotiated with this French bidder, was
acceptable to the Bank and signed in January 1983. Construction began on
February 20, 1984, after delays due to currency transfers, custom-clearance of
imported pre-fabricated elements, and cement shortages. The IFF opened for
its first intake of 300 students in September 1985, but substantial work
remained to be done on the heating system, site work, and interior finishes.
The cost of the IFF civil works was estimated by the mission as US$8.0 million
equivalent. The Loan for this component included US$4.26 million for civil
works, of which US$1.91 million was disbursed by December 31, 1985.
3.19     Equipment lists were not presented to the Bank until 1984, because of
changes in the implementation staff during the creation of the new Secretariat
(SEFP). The MFPT initiated ICB procurement early in 1984, and opened bids on
May 13 of that year. After a successful ICB, in conformity with Bank
guidelines, which produced six awards, considered acceptable by the Bank, the
ministerial bidding committee proposed - in accordance with local procedures -
to negotiate a price with the three lowest bidders. The Bank drew the MFPT's
attention to the fact that Bank procedures do not permit such negotiations,
and the Ministry agreed to realign its procedures with the Bank's. By then,
however, time had expired for corrective procurement measures because the
government decided not to extend the Loan closing date. The mision estimated
that equipment procured and installed through national funds amounted to about
US$1.5 million, representing 20% of the actual requirement. None of the Loan
proceeds allocated for technical assistance and fellowships (US$2.6 million)
were used, except US$100,000 for architectural services. This was despite
repeated efforts by Bank staff to have the fellowship program implemented,
ahead of the completion of construction, in order for the IFF to have
adequately trained trainers who could participate in equipment installation
and curriculum preparation. This situation is most unfortunate as the need
for technical assistance is still acknowledged by the IFF. It has, however,
been partly met by bilateral aid (para 3.07).
3.20     The Technical Teacher Training College (ENSEP).  This institution
commenced operations as a training college for technical lycee teachers in
1973. The Loan included US$1.35 and US$1.74 million for civil works and



- 11 -
equipment respectively needed to increase its capacity and to extend the range
of its courses. Architectural preliminary plans were favorably reviewed by
the Bank in November 1978 and the architectural bidding documents were
completed in April 1979.  Local competitive bidding. (LCB) produced seven
responsive bids. An award was made to the lowest bidder, with Bank approval,
in mid-1979, and construction was started in October 1979, held-up seven
months by problems with the building foundations, and completed early in
1982. The Loan financed US$839,341, approximately 30% of the cost of the
civil works. An amount of US$44,000 was requested and disbursed for
architectural fees.
3.21     ENSEP, however, encountered implementation problems with the
procurement of equipment and the preparation of new curricula.  A French
consulting firm was to handle the former, while UNESCO dealt with the
curricula. Contracts were drawn-up early in 1981 for both these activities
and approved by the Bank.  However, the "Commission Mixte", a committee made
up of officials from diverse ministries, refused to approve the contracts.
The resulting deadlock continued until late 1983 when the Ministry of Finance
decided that the Government wotild finance the equipment and the Loan amount
was reduced accordingly (third amendment, April 30, 1984). Eventually the
government selected a suitable source of technical assistance which the Bank
approved, but the branch of the MESRS in Oran failed to produce the contract,
despite frequent reminders by the Bank and by the MESRS in Algiers.
3.22     The Feasibility Studies.  These three studies (para. 3.10) were all
implemented and successfully completed. The first study led to the Ministry
of Light Industry component of the Fifth Project. This component, however,
was not implemented when the Ministry (following a change in management)
decided to transfer its training responsibilities at this level to the MFP
which felt unable to shoulder this additional program of training.
3.23     Th,e recommendations of the second study were rejeuted by both the
Government and the Bank because the proposed system was not deemed
cost-effective.
3.24     The Bank strongly recommended to the Ministry that the proposal, in
the third study, for the establishment of the institute be rejected because
the type of research activities to be undertaken by the institute would be too
abstract and overly theoretical. In addition, there were other national
research institutes which could undertake vocational training research. The
Minister agreed with the Bank's recommendation and requested direct Bank
intervention to conduct two new studies. The Bank agreed. The first new
study led to a UNDP project document which would have provided a project
management system and logistical support to establish a national network of
vocational training centers (RENAFOP), but which, though still current and
valid, was not implemented by the MTAS, and the second new study led to the
successful implementation of an Industrial Training Institute (INDEFE) under
the Fifth Project (para 3.10).



- 12 -
C. Bank and Borrower Performance
3.25    Unforeseeable events, such as the El-Asnam earthquake, the sudden
increase in Government revenues, and rapid decentralization of responsibility
to local authorities, shaped the Project's socio-economic environment and,
inevitably, had a negative effect on the Project implementation schedule.
Unforeseen, particularly, was the apparent lessening of Borrower commitment to
Loan withdrawal when hydrocarbon revenues reached record highs.
3.26    At a time when the volume of investment by the technical ministries -
much of it devolved to the wilaya level - was so high, it was inevitable that
competition between the ministries would impact negatively on the timely
implementation of projects unless there were some mechanism for
priority-setting and arbitration located at a high level in a ministry with
leverage. This mechanism was not established. Consequently, even priority
projects which were externally financed, fell victim to internal rivalries or
bureaucratic delays. In the case of the INGM, failure to get assignment of
the SONACOME facilities to the MIL (paras 3.12 & '.13), and then assignment to
a new site at Boumerdes (para. 3.14), compounded significantly the delays in
the start-up of civil works. The final blow came when higher authority (para.
3.14) decided that the original consultants, to whom the government had
already paid US$2.6 million, could not be giver the opportunity to modify
their own design (as the Bank had recommended). Faced with yet another
protracted selection process and no clear-cut agreed schedule of
implementation for civil works, the government considered that there were
inadequate grounds for extending the closing date. In much the same way,
delays in consultant selection resulted in the inability of the MESRS to
utilize Loan proceeds for consultant sources (para. 3.21).
3.27     Difficulties in communications, stemming from decentralization,
between technical ministry and local staff (wilaya) and the lack of project
experience of wilaya staff impeded considerably Project implemerstation. Lack
of continuity of staff also magnified implementation problems, particularly in
the case of the .1TAS/MFPT. Effective and swift action, however. was
demonstrated by the Government when it became evident that the ENSEP would
fail to meet its targets. The Ministry of Education (MOE) stepped in to
devise an emergency technicum teachers training p,ogra.u, co-sponsored by UNDP,
the Belgian Government and the Bank (fifth Education Project). With strong
support from the Ministry of Finance, this component was .nitiated in a record
two months.
3.28     The Bank's ICB procedures were initially perceived to be contrary to
the national policy of sponsoring local industries by responsible officials,
who also resented having to follow special guidelines for procurement which
constituted only a small portion of the total development program. Eventually
all Project units demonstrated their willingness to accept these procedures.
Local procedures for the selection of consultants were subject to such lengthy
delays and arbitrary decisions, when they should have been rigorously linked
to the other activities on the Project's critical path, that the only possible
explanation is that it was not the government's policy then to proceed with
the technical assistance program.
3.29     Site management was not effective.  Incomplete surveys, uncoordinated
data, and "raiding" among competitors for sites bedevilled all civil works
components, and particularly the INGM, despite dedicated efforte by Project
technicians.



- 13 -
3.30     Responsible national Project staff were of high caliber and motivated
to see the project go ahead. They cooperated fully with Bank missions, but
the technical ministries alone could not solve all the bureaucratic obstacles
to Project implementation. However, the Government has remained strongly
committed to Project objectives throughout the Project, and has demonstrated
this continued commitment by financing some Project components after Loan
closing.
3.31     Bank missions visited regularly the Project sites at Annaba,
Dicumerd&s and Oran. Bank staff offered their support, particularly in the
preparation of studies, and in leading the MFPT and MEN into new initiatives
such as INDEFE, "RENAFOP" and technicum teacher training program. They
reported to Project staff after site visits, and carried withdrawal requests
back to the Bank.
D. Project Cost, Financing and Loan Disbursement
3.32     Capital Costs.  At the time of the completion mission, in December
1985, two Project institutions had been built and were operational. A third,
reduced in scope, and partly equipped under the Loan, was under construction
without Bank financing, and is expected to be operational in 1988. The funds
for technical assistance and fellowships were largely unused by the MFPT. The
mission estimates that the Project, as revised and when completed, will cost
the equivalent of US$79.35 million, as compared with the appraisal estimate of
US$150.5 million (Annex 4). The difference of US$71.15 million corresponds to
the reduction in scope (one institute instead of two) of the INGM civil works
and equipment, the reduction in size (500 instead of 1,000 places) of the IFF,
and the overall cut in technical assistance (particularly the IFF fellowship
program).
3.33     Project Financing.  The Loan, at the time of appraisal, was to
finance 60% of the Project cost (US$90.0 million), and the Government 40%
(equivalent to US$60.5 million). The Loan was reduced twice: in November 1981
to US$75.0 million, and in April 1984 to US$21.5 million, of which US$6.14 was
disbursed.
PROJECT FINANCING
(in US$ million)
Category                 Loan Agreement         Disbursed
(10/26/78)           (12/31/85)
Civil Works                          37.60                 2.75            7.3
Furniture and Equipment              35.70                 0.49            1.4
Professional Services                 4.20                 2.90           69.1
Experts                               6.30                 0.00            0
Unallocated                           6.20                 0.00            0
TOTAL                                90.00                  6.14           6.8



- 14 -
3.34     Loan Disbursement..  The disbursement rate lagged until the end of the
Project when Bank missions were able to collect disbursement requests for all
expenditures which could then be financed b, the Loan. Some contracts,
however, were not sent to the Bank (ENSEP equipment and technical assistance)
and others (IFF equipment and fellowships) were not ready for signature before
the December 31, 1984 Loan closing date. The disbursement delays were due to
the weak link between central and local (wilaya) administrations, and the
failure to submit contracts and disbursement requests were due to a lack of
incentive from local authorities to process documents when they felt no
pressure on their budgets.
3.35     The Bank had suggested, before the December 31, 1984 Loan closing
date, readiness to extend this date, and to cancel US$12.0 million. The
Ministry of Finance decided in June 1985 not to request an extension of the
closing date. A Bank mission then was sent to Algeria in September 1985, and
the Bank announced its intention to close the Project accounts on October 15,
1985. The Ministry of Finance, however, informed the Bank that a last
disbursement request was being processed. The request was received and a
final disbursement, for 7,616,761.52 Algerian Dinars was made on December 31,
1985. The accounts were closed on the same date, when US$6.14 million had
been disbursed, and the balance of US$15.36 million was cancelled, bringing
the total amount cancelled to US$83.9 million. Commitment charges amounted to
US$3.2 million.



- 15 -
IV. CONCLUSIONS
4.01     The Project was conscientiously prepared and on track, when an
economic boom, a natural disaster, and major changes in administration upset
its implementation schedule. The Borrower and the Bank worked closely to
minimize the impact of these crises, but lack of a single authority with the
leverage to administer the Loan and tenuous administrative linkages between
central and local implementation staff hampered these efforts. Project
objectives remain valid today.
4.02     Two of three Project institutions were operating and the third was
under construction in December 1985. All three training programs are under
way, albeit with lower enrollments. The three studies were completed, and
produced a successful component financed by the Fifth Education Project. When
the Project accounts were closed the Borrower had withdrawn US$6.14 million,
6.81 of the original Loan, and paid commitment charges of US$3.2 million.
4.03     The major lesson drawn from this Project is that the administration
of the loan and, when possible, the management of the project should be
assigned to a single authority, such as the concerned ministry, or a lead
ministry, e.g. Finance (depending on the type of project). The criteria for
the selection of this authority should be (i) stability and continuity, (ii)
leverage to resolve issues promptly, and (iii) the necessary resources for
monitoring and forecasting project implementation schedules, and
disbursements, and for reporting on project status and loan targets on a
regular basis.
4.04     Another lesson which can be drawn from Project experience is that
decentralization of project responsibilities cannot be carried out without
extensive advance training if project implementation is not to be seriously
endangered. The decentralization in question was not foreseeable at the time
of appraisal, emanating as it did from a new government decision. Appropriate
preparation of local staff for decentralization would have included: (i)
oraanization of data, reporting on project status, and forecast of activities;
(ii) scheduling and critical path; (iii) cost estimating and project
accounting; (iv) site management; (v) procurement and international
competitive bidding; and (vi) quality control. The RESEAU/RENAFOP study,
prepared under this Project, already provided the basis for a training program
in project management for local staff of the MFPT, but was not implemented by
that ministry. It is still needed.
4.05     INGM staff cooperated closely with the Bank and worked hard to reduce
obstacles which were not of their making. An excellent working relationship
between the Bank and the Ministry of Vocational Training and Labor resulted
from their mutual experience in this Project. This relationship should
provide a firm platform on which future cooperation through projects can be
built.



)INVYIL SI
IVJSIJII
/'I



- 17 -
Annex 1
Institutions Visited
1.  Ministere des Finances, Alger
2.  Ministere de la Formation Professionelle et du Travail, Kouba
3.  Institut de la Formation Professionelle (IFF), Annaba, Ministere de la
Formation ProfessLonelle et du Travail
4.  Institut National de Genie Mecanique (INGM), Boumerdes, Ministere de
L'Industrie Lourde
Doc. No. 3115V



- 18 -
Annex 2
List of Persons Met
1. UNDP
M. Whaley, Repr6sentant Resident
2.  Ministere des Finances
M. Oualitsene, Directeur des Relations Financieres Multilat6rales
M. Mamoum, Assistant de M. Oualitsene
3.  Ministere de la Formation Professionelle et du Travail (MFPT)
M. Tessa$ Conseiller du Ministre
M. Chetta, Directeur de la Formation
M. Lanani, Directeur de l'INDEFE
M. Louadfel, Directeur de l'IFF, Annaba
M. Chebout, Directeur Administratif et Financier, IFF de Annaba
M. Malem, Directeur des Etudes et des Stages, IFF de Annaba
M. Mesrane, Directeur de la Formation, Wilaya de Annaba
M. Adjabi, Sous-Directeur, DUCH, Wilaya de Annaba
4.  Ministere de l'Industrie Lourde (MIL)
M. Dahmani, Directeur des Etudes, INGM
M. Nedara, Directeur Administratif et Financier, INGM
Doc. No. 3115V



PROJECT IMPLEHENTATION SCHEDLEI
(As of December 31, 1985)
Projected
Actual
1977      1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984      1985
2                                                     1 2  3  4   12 3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4 1  2  3  4  1 2  3 4    1 2 3 4
INSTITUTE FOR VOCATIONAL INSTRUCTOR TRAINING(IFF)
Site Selection and Surveys                                            * * *   * * * *   *
Architectural Design                                                   *
Technical Assistance                                                                      * * *  *  *   * f    *  * f    * * * f f   f f f f   f f   ,
Bidding and Construction                                                                     a *                    a    aft
Equipment & Furniture (Lists, Proci'rement and Installation)              *   *** * * **                                   *
National Institute of Mechanical Enaineerina (INGM2 
Site Selection                                                        * * *   * * ^ *                                                                  _
Architectural Design                                                          f a a *   f ftft
Technical Assistance                                                          *       *             a  a *                f      *       a    a a
Bidding and Construction                                                                     * f   f * *      f f a *      *   ft
Equipment & Furniture (Lists, Procurement and Installation)                   * * a        * *      *_**                 * *       *
Technical Teacher Training Colleae (ENSEP)
Architectural Design
Technical Assistance                                                            f *   f   a   a a   a    a    a   a      aft
Bidding and Construction                                                                 * *_____*_
Equipment & Furniture (Lists, Procurement and Installation)               *       * * * *   f * *
l/ INGM construction scheduled to be completed in December 1987.
Doc. No. 3115V pg 10                                                                                                                                              |
x



- 20 -
Annex 4
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 159S-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REEORT
COST OF PROJECT AS APPRAISED AND REVISED
(USS Million)
I  I  I         I               !                                l IEstimated   !
1                 I                     t               !               I               I                )Cost of      3
3                     I Original      I Project After I Project After f Project After  3Project at  I
I  Project      1 Amendment #1  I Amendment #2  3 Amendment #3   KClosing of  I
!                I                      I                                                                lAccount
1 !  ODate/Signature  ISept. 26, 1978 3Narch 4. 1981  !Nov. 22. 1981  1Apr11 30. 1984  '
I t    Loan Amount    1    90.00      1    90.00      1    75.00      1       21.50    1   6.10    1
3    Cost  -          I   150.50      I    150.50     3   114.40      3       31.50      18.89    1
I  I    Alg.01n.7USS    I    4.05     1      4.15     1      4.30     1        4.A0    I   4.85    1
I- BY CATEGORY  11) Civil Works         1    88.30      1    84.50      1    48.40      I       11.10    I  40.15    I
I                !2) Furn. & Equ2p.    1    47.50       I    50.50      1    50.50      1       12.10    1  32.20    1
I                tl) Prof.              1      6.30     1      6.30     1      6.30     1        3.90    1   6.30    1
3                t4) Experts (E)        '      7.80     1      8.60     1      8.60     1        3.80    1   0.10    1
I                IS) Experts (F)        1      0.60     t      0.60     1      0.60     t        0.60    1   0.60    1
3  Total              I   t.jSo,      I   150.50      3    11440       114_l    I  79A              3
i                                                       3                                                 3 I          I 
II -BY COMPONENT:                       '                               I               I                 I
3    PART A:     11) Civil Works        I    33.00      1    33.00      1    33.00      1       0.00      I  29.40    1
1    INGMVI      12) Furn. & Equip.    1      17.40     1    17.40      1     17.40     f       4.00      1  28.60    1
I                13) Experts/Prof.      3      2.40     1      2.40     1      2.40     '       3.60      '   6.00    1
I  Sub-Total          I    s.280      I    52.80      1    s2.o       3       L.AI      3  64.00    1
o                 a                                                                                                    I* _  
I   PART B:       3                     I
3   IlGI/T        11) Civil Works       1    36.10      '    36.10      I      9.00     1       0.00      I   0.00    I
I                12) Furn & Equip.      I    20.50      1    20.50      1    20.50      I       0.00      I   0.00    1
1                13) Experts/Prof.      I      2.50     I      2.50     I      2.50     I       0.00      f   0.00    1
1            1~~~ Sub-Total        I                I,J    S9JJ10   I    2jJ00      I       .f             l
3                 I                                     3                                                              1 L
I   PART C       I
1   lEE           11) Civil Works       1     16.10     1     13.30     1     12.30     1       8.00      1   8.00    I
12) Furn & Equip.     I      7.50     1      9.S0     1     10.50     1       6.00      1   1.50    3
13) Experts/Prof.     I      1.10     I      1.10     I      1.10     1       0.20      1   0.30    1
a                 '  Sub-Total                 t 24.70           f            23.9n     1         23. 9 I t4.20  '8
t t ! l~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                           I        ) 
I   PART C          I                                                                   1
I   aISmE        1l) Civil Works        I      3.10     I      3.10     1      3.10     I       3.10      I   2.75    1
I                12) Furn. & Equip.    I       2.10     !      2.10     1      2.10     1       2.10      1   2.10    !
!                13) Experts/Prof.      3      0.30     1      0.30     1      0.30     1       0.30      I   0.10    1
I                3  Sub-Total            !                      I                       1        I            JI       I
I   PART  E      I                      !               a               I               i                              3
I   IA           11) Teaching & Fellowsl        -                       I               1       3.60      1    0.00   I
I                !2) For MEN & MESRS   I                I       -               -       I        -        I      -
I                I  Sub-Total           I               !      S0              8.60     !       3         !    0 
*                3                      *               3               3               3                
I   PARTF F                             i               3               I               I                 I
I   Studies      11) Artisanat          3       -               -       '                        - '             - '
3                32) Radio-TV           I       -       3       -                                         I-   -  -
1                !3) Voc. Trng.         I       -       I       -                                         I -  I  -  I  -  3
I                I  Sub-Total           I      3.60       1    0.60            L 0 .6U !                       L0.60   I
I                !  TOTAL               I    lSO.SO     I    tso.So     I    114.40     1      31.50      1   79.35   1
I                I                      I               !               I               I                 I            I
3115V pg. 7



- 21 -                                     Annex S
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 1595-AL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORIGINAL LOAN AND AMENODMENTS
(US$ Million)
I                l                1               !               !~~I    I                         !
I  Original      I Loan After    I Loan After    I Loan After    I Loan at Closingt
!                      !    Loan        I Amendment #1  I Amendment #2  ! Amendment #3  I  of Accounts  I
!                      I                                I               !                 
I          J                            I       !         ! 
Ioate                  ISigned:09/26/78 fAmend:3/4/81   fAmend:11/22/81 IAmend:4/30/84  ! Accounts        I
ILoan Amount           1    90.0        1    90.0       1    75.0       I    21.5       ! 12/31/85        I
fAmount Cancelled      I      -         I       -       I    15.0       I    53.5       ! Closed:         I
IRemarks               I                Ipurpose: reducelpurpose: cancel!                       6.14    !
I                Icapacity of    IINGMT civil    I                                1
I  I             lAnnaba IFF     Iworks.         I                                I
I                      I                tfrom 1000 to   I               I               I
I  'O1500 students;  I                           I               t
1                      I                Ire allocate    I               !                                 I
I                      I                Isavings (approx!               t               !
'                IUS$3.8 million)l               1               I
1                Ito equip an    I               1                                I
l_               _    I      _          IIFF in Setif.  I               I
I I-By Category        I                I               I               1               1
i(l) Civil works       1    37.6        1    35.8       !    20.8       1      3.0      1       2.75      !
1(2) Furn. + Equip.    1    35.7        1    36.7       1    36.7       1      8.0      1       0.49
1(3) Experts (Prof.)   1      4.2       I      4.2      1      4.2      1      7.0      1       2.90      1
1(4) Experts (Part E+F)I      6.3       I      7.1      1      7.1      I      0.0      I       0.00
1(5) Unallocated       1      6.2       1      6.2      I      6.2      !      3.5      1       0.00      1
1        Total         I    2.0         I    90.        1    ZI.       I    L 2                6.JA
I            I~    ~~                         I .1                          
I                      !                I               I               I               I
I II-By Comlnnent      I                I               I               I               1
I Part A: INGM/t       1                1               1               I               I
1(1) Civil works       1     17.10      I     17.10     1     10.00     I      0.00     1       0.00
1(2) Furn. & Equip.    I     14.28      1    14.28      t     14.28     1      4.00     1       0.49
1(3) Experts (Prof.)   1      1.70      1      1.70     1      1.70     1      3.15     I       2.76      t
I        Sub-Total    I    f330A        1    33.Oa      t    25.98      1      7.15      I     3.25 
1    t1                                 1               I               I               I
I ParLf:ZtL            I       N       2 I              I               I               I
1(1) Civil works   !         17.75      I     17.75     1     10.07     1      0.00      I      0.00
1(2) Furn. & Equip.    I     16.85      1     16.85     '     16.85     I      0.00      I      0.00
1(3) Experts (Prof.)   1      1.91      1      1.91     I      1.91     I      0.00      I      0.00
I       Sub-Total      I    36.51       I    36.51      !    28.3a      !      O.,Q0     I      0.0 a
1                      !                                I_  _ _ _ _   _  _   _  _ _  _   _  _   _  _  _    I 



0   z
I   P;    
zn
H~



- 23 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                     ATTACHMENT I
Translation of Incoming Telex dated April 29, 1987
THE WORLD BANK, WASHINGTON DC 20433
ATTENTION MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON, CHIEF
AGRICULTURE AND HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
SUBJECT: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT OF THE FOURTH EDUCATION
PROJECT IN ALGERIA LOAN 1595-AL
FOLLOWING RECEIPT OF THE ABOVE REPORT WE HAVE THE HONOR TO
INFORM YOU THAT WE DO NOT HAVE ANY SPECIFIC OBSERVATIONS.
REGARDS, DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND GUIDANCE
(SIGNED) KOLLI
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
04/29i87



