am}  gr                          Document of
FILE COPY    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2206-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
May 26, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(December, 1977)
US $ 1.00                                Algerian Dinar (DA) 4.05
DA   1.00                                US $ 0.25
Measures
1im                                      3.28 feet
1 m                                     10.76 square feet
1 km                                     0.38 square mile
1 hectare                                2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
EISEP:  Ecole Normale Sup8rieure de l'Enseignement Polytechnique
(Technical Teacher Training College)
IVIT:  Institute for Vocational Instructor Training
NIME:  National Institute of Mechanical Engineering (Engineers)
NIMET: National Institute of Mechanical Engineering (Higher Technicians)
Lyce*: First and second cycle secondary school (grades 7-13) offering
after grade 10 courses in Arabic, Humanities, Mathematics and
Sciences (General Lyc8es) or in Industrial Arts, Mathematics,
Commerce and Economics (Technical Lycees). Upon completing
courses and passing the required examinations, students are
awarded the "Baccalaureat" (various specializations) which
qualifies for entry into university.
Technicum: A new type of technical secondary school (grades 10-12) with
strong vocational bias, designed to produce middle-level
technicians.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
Beneficiaries:      The Ministries of Heavy Industry, Labor and Vocational
Training, Higher Education and Scientific Research,
Education, and Light Industry.
Amount:             US$90.0 million equivalent.
Terms:               Seventeen years with a four year grace period, and
interest at 7.5 percent per annum.
Project             The project would help to alleviate acute manpower short-
Description:       ages of high and middle-level technicians and skilled
craftsmen, contribute to reducing regional inequalities
by decentralizing related training facilities, and support
local industrial development. Specifically, the project
would supply engineers and higher technicians in mechanical
engineering, workshop instructors for an expanded network
of vocational training centers, and technical/workshop
teachers for the civil engineering technology sections of
a new network of technicums. The loan would finance the
foreign exchange cost of: (a) architectural design, con-
struction, furniture and equipment for (i) two new National
Institutes of Mechanical Engineering (NIME and NIMET) for
engineers and higher technicians, respectively, (ii) a new
Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (IVIT), and
(iii) conversion and expansion for the Technical Teacher
Training College (ENSEP) in Oran; (b) 62 man-years of
technical assistance for key expatriate staff for the
start up of the project institutes; (c) 128 man-years of
fellowships to train Algerian staff abroad to replace the
expatriate staff; and (d) 7.5 man-years of short-term con-
sultants to prepare studies on the development of (i) a
network of training centers and a national institute of
rural maintenance trades; (ii) a system of educational
radio and television for vocational training; and (iii) a
national institute for pedagogical research on vocational
training. Costs per man-month for experts and fellow-
ships are estimated at about $5,000 and $1,250, respec-
tively. Incremental annual output due to the project
would be about 225 mechanical engineers, 550 higher tech-
nicians in mechanical engineering, 450 vocational train-
ing nstructors, and 220 technical/workshop teachers. The
risks that can be identified are of three types: first,
the combination of French and English language study
programs at NIME and NIMET, as well as the size of the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
technical assistance component envisaged for all proj-
ect institutes, could pose difficulties in coordination,
and will require close supervision. Second, the costly
and sophisticated equipment for NIME and NIMET will
require careful maintenance and maximum utilization if
full benefits are to be derived. Third, administrative
shortcomings in Algeria combined with constraints on
the national construction industry, could delay civil
works implementation.
Estimated Cost:                                -----US$ Million ------   Percent
Local   Foreign   Total   of Total
National Institute of Mechanical
Engineering (Engineers, NIME)        13.6       23.4      37.0      25
National Institute of Mechanical
Engineering (Higher Technicians,
NIMET)                               15.0       26.5      41.5      27
Institute for Vocational Instructor
Training (IVIT)                       9.3        8.0      17.3      11
Technical Teacher Training
College (ENSEP)                       1.9        2.0       3.9       3
Technical Assistance, Fellowships
and Studies                           1.2        4.7       5.9       4
Total Base Cost                      41.0       64.6    105.6       70
Physical Contingencies                  4.1        6.2      10.3        7
Price Contingencies                    15.4       19.2      34.6       23
Subtotal                             19.5       25.4      44.9      30
Total                                60.5       90.0    150.5      100
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                                  90.0
Government Contribution (expected to be
partially financed by French Caisse Centrale
de Cooperation Economique)                                60.5
150.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                        ------------- US$ Million -------------
FY    1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                           3.7   11.4   33.5   32.0    7.7    1.7
Cumulative                       3.7   15.1   48.6   80.6   88.3   90.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 1831-AL of May 26, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for the equivalent of
US$90.0 million to help finance a fourth education project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.5
percent per annum. Some of the local costs are expected to be financed by the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum of the Current Economic Position and
Prospects of Algeria" (1315-AL) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 10, 1977. An economic mission visited Algeria in May/June 1977 and
December 1977 and its report has been issued. The main conclusions of the
mission are given in the following paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
3.        In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending
1980. These were reaffirmed in detail in the National Charter approved by
referendum in June 1976. In brief, these objectives are (i) to expand and
organize the production base, enabling the economy to reach, by about 1980,
a stage of self-sustained growth with full employment; (ii) to achieve
economic independence, which implies that the country would rely first on
its own resources for development, although international economic relations
would be expanded and diversified; and (iii) to improve income distribution,
particularly among regions. These objectives, and the strategy which has
evolved towards their implementation, take into account the country's physical
and socio-economic potential; the country's leadership is deeply committed
to them.
4.        The rapid establishment of a diversified and highly integrated
industrial base, the education and training of all Algerians for the require-
ments of modern tasks, and austerity in consumption are the main elements
of Algeria's long-term development strategy. The National Charter, introduced
in 1976, places emphasis more particularly, however, on the following aspects
of the strategy. Whereas priority goes to hydrocarbon development as a means
of accumulating financial resources, investments in other industries must
henceforth be tailored more closely to the national capacity to prepare and
implement projects, to the availability of financial resources, and to the
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the First Sewer-
age Project (No. P-2191-AL), approved April 4, 1978.



rates of development in non-industrial sectors. The National Charter specif-
ically underscores the importance of agriculture for creating jobs, for
increasing incomes and improving their distribution, and for substituting
agricultural imports. Decentralization is to be implemented in all areas of
economic and social life so as to achieve the country's development objectives
with maximum efficiency, while the principle of central planning f the economy
will be maintained. Workers' participation in the new management structures,
introduced in 1971, is to be progressively expanded. The control of people's
assemblies over economic planning and management, which was already effective
at local government level, has been introduced at t'e national level by the
new constitution approved in November 1976. Small agricultural, industrial
and retail trade enterprises will be encouraged to contribute to national
economic development.
5.        During the past four years, Algeria has been executing its second
four-year Plan, 1974-77. With the improved financial prospects resulting from
increased hydrocarbon prices at the end of 1973, the Government decided to
accelerate considerably the country's long term strategy. The objectives of
the Plan were to increase investment rapidly, to broaden the productive base
and the economic and social infrastructure of the country, to shift the dis-
tribution of investment in favor of non-industrial sectors and interior
regions, and to improve substantially the employment of unskilled labor and
the living standards of disfavored social groups. The Plan strategy empha-
sized implementation of the decentralization policy.
6.        Several strong elements emerged from Algeria's economic performance
during the first three years of the Plan. Investment rose sharply in current
prices from DA 13.3 billion in 1973 to DA 34.0 billion (US$8.2 billion) in
1976. Employment creation was substantial; the unemployment rate in non-
agricultural sectors fell to an estimated 10 percent in 1976 from 17 percent
in 1973. GDP growth accelerated in the non-hydrocarbon sectors where it
averaged 10 percent per annum. A high rate of national savings, averaging
44 percent of GDP, was achieved. During the first two years of the Plan,
however, total investment became very high in relation to Algeria's financial
and human resources. In addition, an excessive share of investment continued
to be devoted to industry with consequent increased development lags in other
sectors. In 1976, the Government introduced a program to correct these
imbalances. In real terms, non-hydrocarbon industrial investment was reduced
from its 1975 level, while public investment in other sectors increased by 34
percent, indicating a new trend towards a more balanced sectoral distribution
of investment which has been accentuated in 1977. The stabilization of
investment in industry, combined with better management of stocks and imports
and substantially increased hydrocarbon exports, reduced the pressures on the
balance of payments that had developed in 1975. Net foreign reserves rose in
1976 by $0.6 billion to three months of imports at year's end.
7.        Developments were not as positive in other areas.  Although external
financing requirements were reduced in 1976, Algeria continued to borrow
heavily, especially from commercial banks, in order to secure the financing
of new projects, particularly for gas development. This will cause a steep
increase in service obligations in the years immediately ahead, and limit



- 3 -
correspondingly Algeria's capacity for further borrowing. Following a marked
improvement in 1974 resulting from higher oil revenues, the domestic financial
situation also deteriorated in 1975 and 1976. The overall Government budget
showed large deficits. Credit to the economy and money supply increased
sharply. These developments reflected the considerable investment effort of
the country, the large current financing needs of public enterprises, and the
high degree of subsidization of the economy.
8.        The economic and financial situation in 1977, the last year of the
current Plan, has been, on the whole, favorable. GDP growth continued at a
high rate (about 10 percent), although agricultural output was adversely
affected by weather conditions and hydrocarbon output growth somewhat decel-
erated. Crude oil export prices increased by 10 percent at the beginning of
1977 and provided Algeria with the resources to further increase investment.
In line with the policy to shift investment in favor of lagging sectors, some
57 percent of fixed investment was budgeted for non-industrial sectors, such
as transportation, education, training, housing, urban services, regional
development and agriculture. The growth of imports resumed following their
stabilization in 1976 and the balance of payments current account deficit
widened, amounting to an estimated $2 billion. Net external assets, however,
remained stable over the year thanks to disbursements on external loans con-
tracted in previous years. A substantial reduction in the recourse to new
commercial loans, suppliers credits and bank credits was achieved in 1977.
Government savings increased by about 50 percent due to large increases in
hydrocarbon receipts, continued austerity in current budgetary expenditures
and an appreciable reduction in price subsidies. The overall Treasury
deficit, however, widened because the Government increased its investments
and capital transfers to public and collective enterprises.
9.        Decentralization of economic management has been pursued with
vigor, especially in agriculture and industry. All agricultural units of the
Socialist Sector and Agrarian Revolution are now responsible for their produc-
tioni and investment plans, under the supervision of the local authorities and
the agricultural credit bank (BNA). These decentralization measures have
begun to have a beneficial impact on the output and financial results of
these units. In industry, most of the public enterprises are now under the
"socialist management" system, which should have a beneficial effect on
efficiency since it encourages decentralization of financial and technical
management from the enterprise level to the more manageable production unit.
Decentralization of the financial system, as well as decentralization in other
sectors in general, requires, however, revision of credit policy and financial
management procedures for which initial measures were taken under the 1976
and 1977 Finance Laws. It also requires increased financial and accounting
discipline in the enterprises, and enough experienced staff to strengthen
the banks, which will be a difficult and slow process. Decentralization and
strengthening of the distribution (marketing) system, especially for agricul-
tural products, still call for important measures to be fully efficient.
10.       Social development during the Plan continued rapidly, in favor espe-
cially of the most disadvantaged groups. Policy measures which contribute to
raising the living standards of those groups have included increases in the



- 4 -
guaranteed minimum wages, tax relief measures, increases in producer prices
for agricultural products and subsidization of basic commodities. The dis-
advantaged groups have also benefited from the creation of non-agricultural
employment, implementation of the Agrarian Revolution, creation of small- and
medium-scale enterprises at the regional and local levels, construction of
public housing xespecially in rural areas) and rapid development of free
health care, education, training and other social services. Overall, Govern-
ment current and capital expenditure having a direct impact on social develop-
ment increased to 57 percent of total direct Government expenditure in 1976,
from 45 percent in 1973.
11.       Algeria has been pursuing an active regional development policy
which aims at providing equal opportunity in education, employment and living
standards in all regions and thus limiting internal migration. Regional
decentralization of administrative, economic and financial responsibilities is
very advanced at the wilaya (province) and commune (municipality) levels and
is a major determinant of the country's regional development. In addition to
the location of heavy industrial investments in the interior of the country
under the national Plan, special programs for the least favored wilayate,
special urban development (PMU) and commune development (PCD) programs have
been implemented since 1974. The establishment of local enterprises in
various parts of the country in construction materials and other small-scale
industries has been successful in creating employment, using local resources,
and satisfying local demand. The regional and local plans and programs have
generally achieved their objectives, with the exception of the "PMU" and the
small- and medium-scale enterprise programs which suffered delays due to
insufficient capacity at the local level for identification, preparation and
execution of projects. These latter programs were accelerated in 1976 and
1977 in most of the wilayate. New investment locations for several large-
scale projects bear little relation to market and factor availabilities and
may be expected to result in high investment and operating costs. The Govern-
ment is aware of this, and considers these additional costs as the price of
developing outlying regions.
12.       Algeria's economic and financial prospects beyond 1977 will be
reflected in the next Plan, which is being prepared. The Plan is expected to
start in 1979, and 1978 would be a transitional year. The investment strategy
which is likely to be adopted should be consonant with the country's long-
term objectives and strategy. It is likely to increase the relative emphasis
on social sectors, especially housing, agriculture and water development.
Priority will continue to be given to hydrocarbon development as a means of
accumulating financial resources. In contrast, investment in other industrial
sectors is likely to be moderated and more strictly allocated, in order to
complete on-going projects, to achieve forward and backward linkages with
existing industries, and to relieve constraints on the optimum use of existing
capacities. It will, in addition, be adjusted more closely to the rates of
development in non-industrial sectors and to the availability of financial and
human resources. The authorities have recently underscored forcefully in pub-
lic declarations the need for increased efficiency, for reduction of wastage
and for better financial management of the national companies. The next Plan
is therefore expected to give special attention to measures and programs



- 5 -
aimed at improving economic management, eliminating sectoral deficiencies and
bottlenecks and, generally, making the economic system more efficient.
13.       Algeria's-prospects will depend on four main factors:  the growth
of hydrocarbon exports, the level and composition of the country's investment,
its capacity for future borrowing, and the pace of improvement in the effi-
ciency of the economic system. Bank projections show that the country should
maintain a relatively rapid economic growth in all sectors (about 9 percent
yearly) during 1978-81. During 1982-1986, GDP growth would remain high in
non-hydrocarbon sectors, while it would decelerate in the hydrocarbon sector
because of the projected decline in crude oil output. The decline in crude
oil output after 1982 would, however, be offset to a large extent by expected
increases in condensate and natural gas output. The resource gap of the
economy would remain high until 1980, with consequent large external capital
requirements, especially to finance gas and condensate development for export.
The financial constraint, however, appears somewhat more binding than had been
projected in the years immediately ahead because of Algeria's heavy borrowings
in 1975 and 1976, the consequent rapid increase in its debt service obliga-
tions, and the expected decrease in the real price of crude oil in 1978 fol-
lowing the recent OPEC decision. Thus, the need to modulate strictly the
level of the country's investment in relation to the availability of financial
resources is expected to dominate the strategy of the next Plan.
14.       Production forecasts for the non-hydrocarbon sectors depend not only
on investment but on the efficiency of the economic system. This factor,
which is a determinant of Algeria's economic prospects, lends itself only to a
largely qualitative evaluation. Progress in the area of economic planning and
management began in 1976 and 1977, with emphasis on the entry of projects into
full production, utilization of capacities, intersectoral project coordina-
tion, interindustrial linkages and, to a lesser extent, financial management
of the enterprises. Much remains to be done, however. As indicated above,
the strategy of the next Plan is expected to be centered mainly on investments
and measures designed gradually to eliminate constraints on economic effi-
ciency. Two factors may work in favor of improving economic efficiency in the
years ahead: (i) the industrial experience that Algeria has acquired after
more than ten years of accelerated development; and (ii) the effect of the
redistribution of investment aimed at helping the lagging sectors to catch up
and improving the use of existing capacities. The decentralization policy
should also help greatly to improve the economic system--provided it is sup-
ported by strengthening of planning and supervision at the central level,
revision of price and credit policies and development of the financial system.
Algeria counts on external services to assist in relieving existing constraints
on efficiency.
15.       Algeria will have to pursue an active, although prudent, external
borrowing policy. During 1978-81, external borrowing requirements are pro-
jected to average about US$3.6 billion annually in terms of commitments, while
a temporary decrease in external reserves is expected. The projected commit-
ments are considerable in view of Algeria's debt-carrying capacity. In terms
of access to external sources of financing, these amounts appear manageable
since the gas contracts into which Algeria has entered generally provide for



- 6 -
partial financing of gas treatment and liquefaction plants. The amounts which
should be mobilized for gas and condensate development are expected to con-
stitute more than 70 percent of the projected financing requirements from
commercial sources during 1978-81. Suppliers' credits should be available
to finance other industrial investments, most of which will probably be
implemented by foreign contractors. Borrowing from official soui.es should
be relatively small. These include OECD and centrally planned countries, the
African Development Bank, the World Bank, and the EEC, the latter of which
signed a financial and trade agreement with Algeria in April 1976.
16.       Although the resource gap is pro;ccted to disappear in the early
1980's, the balance of payments would continue to show current account defi-
cits because of interest payments on external loans. In addition, commercial
loans and credits with short maturities in relation to the gestation periods
of investments will ._nduce rapidly increasing debt repayment obligations. The
country thus faces borrowing requirements well into the 1980's, but in decreas-
ing amounts in relative terms. These could be met by new suppliers' and
buyers' credits linked to future projects.  The experience Algeria has acquired
on the international financial markets should enable it to manage its external
borrowing requirements, and possibly also to improve the conditions of future
external commercial loans. At the end of 1976, aware that liquidity problems
could be caused by the heavy recourse of public enterprises to external borrow-
ing, the Government set up an External Financing Committee. The Committee is
chaired by the Governor of the Central Bank; it examines all external-credit
requests by the enterprises and the terms of borrowing, and monitors external
indebtedness. Algeria has not used IMF resources. Its IMF quota is SDR 130
million. As of the end of 1977, Algeria's holdings of SDRs amounted to SDR
46.2 million, equivalent to 114.5 percent of its cumulative position.
17.       At the end of 1977, Algeria's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed was estimated at $7.6 billion ($12.3 billion including undisbursed),
equivalent to about 40 percent of GDP. Debt service increased from 13.7 per-
cent of goods and non-factor services exports in 1975 to 16 percent in 1976
and an estimated 17 percent in 1977. With the projected new borrowings, debt
service may rise to a level between 22 and 23 percent of exports by the early
1980's. It should decline subsequently, as the large condensate and gas
projects, presently underway or planned, begin to generate increasing export
revenues. Bank lending, past and projected, represents only a small fraction
of the country's external financing requirpments. At the end of 1976, the
portion of Algeria's total debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank was
estimated at 1.5 percent; this share will rise somewhat over the next years,
but is projected to remain below 6 percent at the end of the decade. By 1984,
the likely receipts from gas exports alone would exceed projected total debt
service payments. Algeria's external borrowing needs will be large in the
next few years, but can be accommodated in view of the considerably enhanced
capacity to carry debt which the country has acquired in 1974 as a result of
the new relationship between the prices of hydrocarbons and other commodities
in world markets, the long-term prospects for gas exports, and general eco-
nomic performance. Algeria is creditworthy for continued Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
18.       After an interval of about nine years, lending to Algeria resumed in
FY73. Since then, fourteen loans have been approved totalling $632.5 million
for roads, power, education, industry, rural development, urban sewerage and
ports. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31,
1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. While the physical
execution of most projects is progressing well, disbursements for some loans
have been slow. This is particularly the case for the first education project
and the loan to the Algerian Development Bank (BAD). Because of administrative
difficulties, implementation of the first education project, and therefore
disbursements, are about two years behind schedule.  Disbursements have also
been slow for the project with BAD due to limited progress in improving
institutional arrangements, which was an important objective of the project.
The Bank and the Government are now engaged in a discussion on how to best
solve the problems of the above two projects (see also para. 26).
19.       The provision of technical assistance and institution-building sup-
port is a major objective in the Bank's strategy in Algeria, to which the
Government attaches special importance. The aim is to assist the Government
in improving economic and sector management, project preparation, implementa-
tion and financial control, Economic efficiency and financial management have
been prominent in our economic dialogue with the Government, and technical
assistance has been extended in nrev1niis nrojects to foster the financial
system's appraisal capability and improve auditing of national companies.
Most projects contemplated for the coming years are expected to have one or
more technical assistance components. The project proposed in this report, as
well as the three previous education loans, have included technical assistance
to improve the planning and management of education and training in Algeria.
In another vein, and on the recommendation of a joint Bank-IMF mission visit-
ing Algeria in late 1974 to study the financial planning system, the Economic
Development Institute (EDI) held a course in 1975 dealing with various aspects
of financial planning at the central government, banking and project levels,
followed by two industrial projects courses. A rural development course is
now in progress in Algeria.
20.       Another important objective of Bank strategy is to assist Algeria
in relieving developmental bottlenecks in lagging sectors, more generally to
reduce imbalances associated with Algeria's chosen path of development. The
first three education projects address themselves to the present shortage of
technical skills needed to carry out Algeria's transformation into an indus-
trial society. Five transportation projects for highways, railways and ports
are aimed at fostering the country's economic integration, in line with the
Government's regional development objectives.
21.       In this fiscal year, an $82 million loan for a first sewerage proj-
ect was negotiated in February and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 4, 1978. The project comprises major institution-building features and
is the first concrete result of the recently initiated dialogue with the



- 8 -
Ministry of Hydraulics.  In response to the Government's request for Bank
assistance in industry, a technical assistance loan to the national company
for metal construction, SN Metal, is expected to be submitted to the Board by
early next fiscal year. Other projects planned for next fiscal year include
roads, telecommunications and.agriculture. In subsequent years, projects are
contemplated in industry, rural development, education, power, railways and
urban public services; these projects will continue to stress objectives going
beyond the simple transfer of resources. An improving mutual understanding
between the Bank and Algeria should lead to a lending program increasingly
responsive to Algeria's socio-economic transformation.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
22.       The education and training system in Algeria is expected to fulfill
social, economic and cultural objectives that are crucial to the country's
development strategy. The essential social objectives are to provide a common
educational base for all through nine years of basic education, which could
lead to directly productive employment or further education and training,
while increasingly employing Algerian teachers and using Arabic as the prin-
cipal language. The main economic objective is to provide sufficient tech-
nical and vocational training at all levels to satisfy the growing needs for
trained manpower, from skilled workers to higher technicians and engineers
who can assume managerial responsibility. Finally, fostering Arab-Algerian
cultural values remains a basic goal.
23.       A major structural and qualitative reform was initiated under the
Second Plan (1974-77) to make the education system more responsive to the
country's social and cultural objectives and more relevant to the needs of the
economy. Education at all levels will be increasingly oriented toward a more
practical scientific and technical approach designed to meet the demand for
trained manpower required by industrialization and the rapid growth of the
economy. Average annual demand during the period 1977-90 is expected to be
close to 70,000 skilled craftsmen, 36,000 middle-level technicians, 5,600
higher level technicians and 2,400 engineers, compared with present outputs
of only 20,000, 11,500, 1,660 and 370 respectively. Primary and secondary
education would henceforth be based on nine years of a universal basic educa-
tion, followed at secondary level by either 3-year courses in lycees and
technicums (upper-secondary schools with a strong vocational bias) or teacher
training courses. Post-secondary courses are offered in universities, where
expanded enrollments are being reoriented toward science and engineering,
and institutes of technology, designed to satisfy the needs for specialized
personnel in various technical and engineering fields. Outside the framework
of the formal education system, skilled and semi-skilled workers and craftsmen
for industry and commerce are trained through a network of vocational training
centers. The structural reform, which is still in the early stages of imple-
mentation, would probably be completed by 1990.
24.       The administration of education in Algeria is in a period of tran-
sition. The Ministry of Education supervises pre-school education and is
responsible for primary and secondary education; substantial administrative



- 9 -
authority has, however, been delegated to the country's 31 provinces. The
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, which at present admin-
isters only the university system, will gradually assume responsibility for
all post-secondary education, which includes the institutes of technology
established after 1970 under the various relevant ministries. This should
facilitate the rational planning and coordination of post-secondary education,
which is projected to nearly double by 1985. The technical ministries, such
as Labor and Vocational Training, Heavy Industry, Light Industries, and Energy
and Petrochemicals, would retain responsibility for vocational training for
their own sectors.
25.       Education has expanded rapidly since independence and particularly
in recent years. Since 1972, primary and secondary enrollments have increased
at an average annual rate of over 7 percent and 17 percent respectively, and
now represent 78 percent and 26 percent respectively of the relevant age
groups. Annual enrollments at universities have increased at about 24 percent
over the same period. Public expenditures on education represented about 9
percent of GDP in 1977, while capital expenditures absorbed over 22 percent
of total public capital expenditures. Total enrollments are estimated to
increase at 4 percent yearly, from 3.5 million in 1976/77 to 5.7 million in
1989/90. To finance this expansion, an average annual increase of over 6
percent (real terms) in total public expenditure on education, amounting to
about 8.1 percent of projected GDP in 1990, will be required.  Barring any
unforeseen events, the Algerian economy seems capable of meeting this rela-
tively high level of expenditure. However, administrative shortcomings and
lack of capacity in the construction industry could pose obstacles to the
rapid development of the education and training system. The Government is
aware of these problems and is making serious efforts to redress them.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
26.       The main purpose of Bank lending for education in Algeria is to
assist in meeting the demand for manpower to fill key management and high-
level technical posts, and to supply urgently needed middle level technicians
and skilled workers. The first two Bank-financed projects focused on the
expansion and construction of facilities for institutes of technology for
training in the fields of plastics, gas, mining, metallurgy, agriculture,
electricity and electronics. The major component of the third loan is the
construction of fifteen out of a planned network of 30 technicums, a new type
of upper-secondary school to train middle-level technicians. The loan also
finances the construction of two vocational training centers. Studies under
the three education loans include procurement/accounting, location planning,
institutional administration and systems building in education. Technical
assistance has been provided for planning and implementation of sector-wide
reforms. A study on the demand for teachers for vocational training under the
second project forms the basis for the Institute of Vocational Instructor
Training to be financed under the proposed project. There have been substan-
tial delays in the implementation of the first project, due in large part to
changes in the administration of the education sector (see para. 24), and



- 10 -
particularly to the complexity of the component for the Institute of Agri-
cultural Technology. Corrective measures have now been agreed and it is
expected that the loan can be closed at the end of this year. Implementation
of the second and third projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
27.       The shortage of skilled manpower remains one of the major constraints
to the development and efficiency of most sectors of the Algerian economy.
Annual requirements of engineers and higher technicians in mechanical engineer-
ing during 1977-90 are estimated at about 400 and 950 respectively, while
present yearly output is only 26 mechanical engineers and 42 mechanical higher
technicians. Expatriates account for over 40 percent of professionals and
higher technicians in industry, as well as for 55 percent of post-secondary
teachers and over 30 percent of secondary teachers. The proposed project
would thus continue to reinforce technical education, including the training
of teachers and instructors in technical fields. As a result of the construc-
tive dialogue that has been established with the Government in the education
sector, it is expected that the Bank's continued involvement would increas-
ingly emphasize rural, adult and agricultural education and training.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       The investments foreseen under the proposed project would comple-
ment and supplement the Bank's previous lending in the sector by providing
training for urgently needed engineers and higher technicians in mechanical
engineering and for teachers for technicums and for vocational training
centers. The project was identified by a Bank mission in November/December,
1976. It has been prepared by the Government, assisted by consultants, and
a Bank mission in March/April, 1977, and appraised in October, 1977. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington in May, 1978. The Algerian delegation was
headed by Mr. Hassam, Director General of the Ministry of Finance. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Fourth Education Project, Democratic
and Popular Republic of Algeria" (No. 1831-AL), dated May 26, 1978 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary
is provided in the beginning of this report; a Supplementary Project Data
Sheet, Annex III, and a map showing the location of project institutes
are also attached.
Objectives and Description
29.       The proposed project would help alleviate the manpower shortages
which prevent the optimum efficiency and productivity of investments in most
sectors of the economy. It would also reduce regional inequalities by dis-
persing technical training opportunities and support local industrial develop-
ment. Specifically, the project would supply engineers and higher technicians
in mechanical engineering, workshop instructors for the national network of
vocational training centers, and technical/workshop teachers for the civil
engineering technology sections of the technicums. The loan would finance the
foreign exchange cost of: (a) architectural design, construction, furniture
and equipment for (i) two National Institutes of Mechanical Engineering (for
engineers and higher technicians, respectively), including dormitories for all



- II -
students, (ii) an Institute for Vocational Instructor Training, and (iii) con-
version and expansion of a Technical Teacher Training College; (b) 62 man-years
of technical assistance for key expatriate staff for the start up of the the
project institutes; (c) 128 man-years of fellowships to train Algerian staff
abroad to replace expatriate staff; and (d) 7.5 man-years of consultants to
prepare studies on the development of: (i) a network of training centers and
a national institute of maintenance trades in rural areas (50 man-months);
(ii) a system of educational radio and television for vocational training (25
man-months); and (iii) a national institute for pedagogical research on
vocational training (15 man-months).
Training of Engineers
30.       A five-year training course would be offered in the National Insti-
tute of Mechanical Engineering for engineers (NIME) to be constructed under the
project in Setif, an agricultural and industrial center of growing importance
located about 100 miles southeast of Algiers. The site of the Institute would
be close to that selected for the University of Setif. The course would be
based on a study prepared for the Government by a French consulting consortium,
complemented by some programs selected by the Government from another study
prepared by an American consulting consortium. Programs would be offered in
workshop technology, metal construction, power, maintenance, industrial metal-
lurgy, industrial engineering, industrial management and plant engineering.
Admission would be granted to students with a baccalaureate degree on the
basis of an entrance examinatior.. The institute would have an annual intake
of 240 students, with a total enrollment of 1,200 and an annual output of 225
which, together with anticipated university output, would meet Algeria's
estimated manpower requirements for mechanical engineers through 1990.
Training of Higher Technicians
31.       The National Institute of Mechanical Engineering for higher techni-
cians (NIMET) would be constructed under the project in Tiaret, an important
industrial and regional center located about 150 miles southwest of Algiers
on the High Plateaux. The site is close to that selected for the University
of Tiaret, whose students would use the Institute's facilities. A two-year
training course for baccalaureate-level students would replace the existing
four-year course that recruits grade 10 students. The course of study would
include a similar combination of the proposals made in the French and U.S.
studies, and would include classes in workshop technology, industrial design,
metal construction, automation, foundry, forge work and metallurgy, plant
technology and manufacturing technology. The Institute would have an annual
intake of about 600 students, with a total enrollment of 1,200 and an annual
output of 550 which, together with anticipated university output, would meet
the country's requirements for higher technicians in mechanical engineering
through 1990.
32.       French would initially constitute the main language of instruction
for both Institutes, with a number of courses offered in English; eventually,
Arabic is expected to predominate. Curricula and syllabi for both Institutes



- 12 -
would be of high standard, strongly oriented towards industry and emphasizing
problem-solving with an adequate balance between theory and practice. The
Institutes would act as centers of applied research and re-training appropri-
ate to the solution of actual development problems of Algerian industry. A
nucleus of these Institutes, which exists temporarily outside Algiers at
Boumerdes, would be phased out and incorporated into the two new Institutes.
Training of Vocational Instructors
33.       The Government's plan to expand the network of vocational training
centers by 96 centers over the next four years will increase substantially the
demand for vocational instructors. An Institute for Vocational Instructor
Training (IVIT) would thus be constructed at Annaba, a commercial port and
industrial center experiencing rapid growth. A two-year course would be
offered to trainees having ten years schooling, followed by a one year course
in a vocational training center, and two further years' practical experience
either in industry or in a vocational training center. Training would be
provided in construction and civil engineering, heating and air-conditioning,
electricity, manufacturing technology, metal construction, motor engineering,
industrial chemistry, and printing. The Institute would have an annual intake
of about 500 students, with an enrollment of 1,000 and an annual output of
450. Curricula and syllabi have been prepared in a preinvestment study by a
consulting firm from the Federal Republic of Germany, in cooperation with the
various government agencies concerned. Periodic training visits would be made
to relevant industries and vocational training centers. The program would
have a strong practical bias with a proposed distribution between technical/
practical and pedagogical training of about 83 percent and 17 percent, respec-
tively.
Training of Technical Teachers
34.       The third Bank-financed education project included the construction
of a tranche of 15 technicums from a proposed network of 30 technicums. These
schools, which are being implemented at a rate of 5 per year, would require
annually an additional 450 teachers, including about 280 technical workshop
instructors. To adequately staff these schools, the existing Technical
Teacher Training College (Ecole Normale Superieure de l'Enseignement Poly-
technique, ENSEP) in Oran would be expanded under the project. ENSEP presently
has a capacity of about 1,100 places and provides training for post-secondary
students in mechanics, electricity and electronics. With some conversion and
supplementary equipment and an additional 100 places in civil engineering,
this college, together with the university system, could supply sufficient
teachers in these fields. A large workshop area would be converted into
individual workshops and laboratories and additional workshop/classrooms
and social facilities would be built. A three-year course would be offered
to selected baccalaureate-level students from technicums and technical lycees.
A fourth probationary year would be spent on teaching assignment under super-
vision from ENSEP with periodic returns (about six weeks annually) to ENSEP.
After the expansion by 100 places, enrollment of trainees for technical/
workshop courses would be 800; the remaining 400 places would be mainly for
science teacher trainees. An understanding was reached with the Government



- 13 -
that the pedagogical training program submitted for ENSEP would be further
amended, as agreed with the Bank, to meet the needs of technicums, and assur-
ances were obtained that all necessary measures would be taken to ensure the
collaboration of the Ministries of Education and Higher Education in the
implementation of this program at ENSEP (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.10(ii) and relating Supplemental Letter). The Government has also provided
assurances that the Bank would be informed regularly of all measures taken
affecting the employment conditions of trainees and graduates of ENSEP (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
35.       The Government would provide housing for almost all students at IVIT
and ENSEP; housing for students of NIME and NIMET would be financed under the
loan. Women are expected to comprise about 5 percent of total enrollments in
NIME and NIMET and about 10 percent in IVIT and ENSEP, with future increases
foreseen. To ensure that all the institutes maintain close contact with the
economic sectors concerned in order to remain abreast of current developments
and problems, the Government has provided assurances that views would be
exchanged annually with the Bank on the recommendations of the advisory
councils established at the project institutes, the members of which would
represent the needs of the economic sectors benefitting from the training
provided at each institute (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). A system of
continuous evaluation would be introduced aiming at improving educational
guidance, vocational orientation and career evaluation, and should prove
particularly important for realistic curriculum development. The Government
has provided assurances that information on this system would be exchanged
with the Bank sufficiently in advance of the opening of the new institutes and
the ENSEP extension, to permit Bank comments. Results of tracer studies
would, for five years following first outputs from the project institutes, be
sent periodically to the Bank as required for project evaluation (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.09).
Technical Assistance
36.       An important technical assistance component is included in the proj-
ect to ensure sufficient and qualified staffing for all the institutes. A
program of 62 man/years of technical assistance would be provided under the
project, principally to enable the project institutes to begin operations with
key expatriate staff while Algerians would be completing their training abroad
to replace them. Also included are two man/years to be allocated to the
Ministry of Education for recruitment of one or more specialists in planning
and administration as improved planning procedures are necessary to effec-
tively control the rapid expansion of the education system. The project would
also provide for a program of 128 man/years of fellowships, including two
man/years for the Ministry of Education, to train Algerian staff to gradually
take over from the expatriate staff. Selected fellows would complete their
training abroad sufficiently in advance of the opening of their respective
institutes so that their return would coincide with the arrival of the expa-
triate specialists. This would enable them to acquire further experience as
counterparts to expatriates during the installation of equipment and in the
preparation and execution of teaching programs.



- 14 -
37.       In addition, the project would finance studies, mostly on the devel-
opment and expansion of rural education and training. A total of 90 man/
months of technical assistance would be provided for the preparation of
studies on: (i) the development of a national institute and network of train-
ing centers for maintenance trades in rural areas (50 man/months); (ii) the
development of a system of educational radio and television courses for voca-
tional training (25 man/months); and (iii) the development of a national
institute for pedagogical research on vocational training, with particular
emphasis on curriculum development and on an evaluation system (including
tracer studies) for IVIT and vocational training centers, as well as links
between these institutes and the workplace (15 man/months). For the implemen-
tation and monitoring of the study on educational radio and television, the
Government has provided an assurance that all necessary measures would be
taken to ensure collaboration of the Ministries of Labor, Education and Light
Industries, all of whom share an interest in the subject (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.10(i) and relating Supplemental Letter). The Government has
also provided an assurance that the terms of reference for the studies would
be forwarded to the Bank in sufficient time to permit recruitment of experts
according to schedule (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). The findings
of the first two studies above could form the basis for components of a sub-
sequent Bank-financed education project.
Project Implementation
38.       Implementation of the project is expected to take five years follow-
ing the signing of the Loan Agreement. The normal guarantee period for civil
works, final disbursements and closing of accounts would require an additional
year. Bank involvement in the project at this stage would ensure early imple-
mentation of the technical assistance program and equipment procurement for
the engineering institutes, currently operating outside Algiers, and for
ENSEP; Bank commitment to the project would also facilitate the recruitment
of the necessary foreign architectural consultants. Technical assistance
programs under the project are expected to continue until October 31, 1984, or
about two years following completion of physical aspects. Different Govern-
ment organisms would be responsible for implementing the various project
components. The Directorate of Training of the Ministry of Heavy Industry,
through the Director General of the Institutes of Mechanical Engineering,
would be responsible for NIME and NIMET. The Directorate of Vocational
Training in the Ministry of Labor would be responsible for IVIT and for the
studies on educational radio and television and pedagogical research on
vocational training. The Directorate of Planning in the Ministry of Higher
Education would be responsible for the conversion and extension of ENSEP, in
close collaboration with the Ministry of Education and the Director of ENSEP.
The Directorate for the Artisanat in the Ministry of Light Industries would
assume responsibility for the study on rural maintenance trades. The Project
Liaison Officer in the Ministry of Finance for the three previous education
projects would also provide liaison for the proposed project. All these
authorities are considered sufficiently experienced to ensure effective
project implementation.



- 15 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
39.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $150.5 million, of
which about $100 million for investment in the four project institutes, $6
million for technical assistance and about $45 million for physical and price
contingencies. Physical contingencies are calculated at ten percent of the
estimated cost of civil works, furniture, equipment and consultant fees and
five percent of the estimated cost of technical assistance. Price contingen-
cies are based on current and projected price escalation rates over the period
of project implementation, estimated at about 33 percent of the baseline cost.
Instructional equipment costs per student for the Institutes of Mechanical
Engineering are high (about $7,500, c.i.f.) but are justified due to the
specialized nature of the Institutes and their equipment, and because the
Government's policy of training job-ready graduates requires additional
sophisticated and expensive production-type equipment. The cost of experts'
services and for fellowships are estimated at $5,000 and $1,250 per man-month,
respectively. The proposed Bank loan of $90 million, representing 60 percent
of total project costs, would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project. The balance, amounting to $60.5 million or 40 percent of project
costs, would be financed by the Government, with some likely assistance from
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, which has also been
involved in the preparatory work for NIME and NIMET.
Procurement and Disbursements
40.       The bulk of civil works contracts, amounting to $88.3 million
including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts
for ENSEP for extension and conversion (about $2.2 and $0.8 million, respec-
tively) would be awarded on the basis of normal Government procedures which
are satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign firms are expected to be awarded up
to two-thirds of the project civil works contracts. Contracts for equipment
and furniture, estimated at $47.5 million, would be grouped to the extent
possible in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Such contracts in
excess of $50,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Small items or groups of items costing less than $50,000, or items
of specialized nature for which international competitive bidding would not be
practicable, would be procured under normal Government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. These items, which would not exceed an aggregate
total of $5 million, would include when possible price quotations from at
least three manufacturers or suppliers. Bank approval of tender evaluation
documents would be required before award of all contracts for furniture and
equipment under international competitive bidding, and for civil works con-
tracts exceeding $1.0 million equivalent. Bank reimbursement for all other
contracts would be contingent on Bank approval of tender evaluation documents
subsequent to contract award. The bidding documents would specify that equip-
ment suppliers would be required to provide the necessary training of key
personnel in the use and maintenance of sophisticated equipment (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4, A.3.(b)). An appropriate equipment maintenance plan
would be prepared for the four project institutes and forwarded for Bank



- 16 -
review within one year of their opening (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03
(b)). In the evaluation of bids, local manufacturers of equipment and furni-
ture would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of
customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent of c.i.f. price,
whichever is lower. While about 50 percent of furniture contracts is likely
to be awarded *u local manufacturers or suppliers, almost all equipment is
expected to be procured from foreign manufacturers.
41.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 44 percent of total
expenditures for civil works. Furniture and equipment would be covered at 100
percent of foreign cost for directly imported items, 85 percent of total cost
for locally procured imported items, and 45 percent of total cost for locally
manufactured items. Disbursements for professional services would be made
against 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of services provided by non-
Algerian firms and 30 percent of the total cost of local professional services;
and for technical assistance against 100 percent of the foreign exchange
cost.
Benefits and Risks
42.       The project would help to alleviate acute manpower shortages of high
and middle-level technicians and skilled craftsmen by increasing the annual
output of the education system by about 225 mechanical engineers, 550 higher
technicians in mechanical engineering, 450 vocational training instructors,
and 220 technical/workshop teachers. The project would also contribute to
reducing regional inequalities through systematic decentralization of skilled
training opportunities and supporting local industrial development. Further-
more, the project would make an important contribution to improved educational
planning and administration by providing a program of technical assistance to
undertake a feasibility study on development of rural maintenance trades, and
studies on educational broadcasting and pedagogical research in vocational
training.
43.       In addition to the difficulties inherent in ensuring effective
administrative coordination of the various ministries and regional authori-
ties, three main risks can be identified at this stage. First, the combina-
tion of French and English language study programs proposed for the two
Institutes of Mechanical Engineering (NIME and NIMET) could pose some coordi-
nation and communication difficulties. In addition, the size of the technical
assistance component envisaged for all the project institutes would indicate
the need for close supervision of both of these aspects. Second, to ensure
that maximum benefit is derived from the costly and sophisticated equipment to
be installed in NIME and NIMET, these will require careful maintenance and a
high rate of utilization. Finally, administrative shortcomings in Algeria,
combined with the expected heavy demand on the national construction industry,
could delay civil works implementation. These risks have been discussed with
the Government authorities concerned, who have indicated that they would take
whatever measures may be necessary to minimize them to the extent possible.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
44.       The draft-Loan Agreement between the Democratic and Popular Republic
of Algeria and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Arti-
cle III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
45.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for educa-
tion projects. In addition to the features of the draft Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following
conditions of effectiveness have been added: (i) evidence has been furnished
to the Bank that surveys of existing facilities have been made and needs for
additional works on and around the construction sites have been identified
(Section 5.01(a)); and (ii) preliminary site plans and schematic architectural
designs for the Project institutes have been furnished to the Bank (Section
5.01(b)).
46.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
47.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
May 26, 1978
Washington, D.C.






ANNEX I
ALGERIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS OATA SHEET                Page 1 of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
---------------                                  ALGERIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2381.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     454.5                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE          TURKEY         YUGOSLAVIA    RUMANIA **
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                     470.0*   530.0 *  990-o 1*               SO0.0*     830.0*          ,.a
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
______________________________
POPULATION (MIO-YR. MILLION)           10.1       13.4     16.2 a              35.6        20.4        20.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0       6.0        7.011             46.0        80.0        85.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        23.0      30.0      36.0  -a            65.0       139.0       136.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         50.9      50.0       48.7               40.6        21.0        19.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          22.6       18.4      15.4               14.4         9.1         E.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        96.0 /a      .         .               153.0/a      55.5        49.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       45.6      50.7       53.6               54.4        67.7        67.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..        3.5       3.5                2.6/b.c    1.3          1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.1        2.9       3.2                2.5         1.0         1.0
URBAN                                 7.2 /b    4.4        5.6                4.9 /d      4.6         3.4
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          3O.7       35.6      39.9               38.7        38.7        40.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       44.0      47.2 a   48.0                 41.7        28.3        25.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                       52.0      48.4 a    48.8                54.0        64.3        65.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.0       4.4        3.2                4.3         7.4         8.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        1.1 /a    1.0                o.g         0.6         0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1. /C    2.67T    2.4 L                 1.1/C        .          0.7/b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THDU)           ,.         ..        ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ,.                8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2700.0    2600.0 /ab 3590.0/a          14500.0/f                9900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         67.0      50 0        42.8 7            67.0          ..        49.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..       15.07t    l0.07T
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'O BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        .,               32. /h      15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ,.        ..         ,.               60.67k    41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..          .                2.9Th       6.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..         ,                9.4;    18.4
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____________-_______________--
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         .,              53.0        is.1/a
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         .                0.9        84.9T*
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7930.0 Id 7860.0   7400.0               2250.0       870.0 IX   659.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            :.-  2730.0          ..             1770.0/1    280.0  _   200.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           280.0 e  340.0                          So SOO.O    170.0       140.0/C
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         73.0      78.0       88.0              110.0       124.0       119.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              47.0      45.0       46.0               7820        92.0        92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         14.0 /e    9.0 /C      *-               22.:0 Li    29.0        28.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..       12.0/a       .                14.7 /k     2.6         2.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       46.0      75.0       86.0              109.0        94.0       112.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      8.0       11.0      16.0               28.0        45.0        46.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             15.0      15.0       15.0               11.0        12.0      12-13
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     29.0/f    20.0       19.0               14.0        72 0        58 0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  ..       26.0      3.0:/c             Ss.0/1      85 0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..        2.8 /a,d  ..                  1.9         ..         1.3 /d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        .       77.0 /a      ..               64.0           ..       88.0 /d.e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..      34.0 /a      ..               41.0          ..        49.0 /d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..       12.0 /a                       18.0                   27.0 /d
CONSUMPTION
RADID RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         54.0       52.0      46.0                99.0       185.0       152.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          17.0       11.0      12.0                 4.0       35.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAPI          123.0      138.0     211.0 1             247.0      1268.0      1615.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.6         ..        0.5                0.7         4.3         2.6
---------------------------------------------__     ____ ___---  _ __ ___  __ __ ___  __ ___  __ __ __ -__ __   -__ __
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4 pago.
un1ess otharwi.a n.otd, dota for 1960 ref.r to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1970, and for Otoat Rec-t c ftieate  b.r-oee
197  andt 1975.
GNIP par capit. data are b-sad on tha World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 baain).
R-.1.nt  ha. b..n selected se  -n  b,jeoti*a c0tmt  Pfr Algeria because both cocetrLea ha-cntal  plann-e-d ec-ei.a and developnent etraregien
giving high priority to indoatri.lixatiolt, particularly heavy industry, while Romanihe h.. had a larger enperleoce of d".v.elo~nt than Algeria.
alIlEIA          1960     I   1965, Algerian pop.lation only;    lb  1954-60;    /n  Ratin of popul.tion  ondr 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
/d  1963;    I.  1962,       If  Ex.luding pri-ete  -octiLona        ho1  a
1970    Iat960;    lb  Uoclding aiLitary parsonnel in barranka and 274,663 nationala abrond of  h-0  229,020 are  -cononIc y  -tiv-,
.1-0 -nlZdins 1,200.000 fanaslee   inaly onn-pied in agri-olt.ne;    It  1964-66;    /d  Total, orbn and rural.
MOlT RECETP  ESTIMgATE:    /a  1976;    lb  Ratio of pop.lation under 15 and 65 and ove  to total lobor for-;                    Ic  1977;
7T      1970      I.  1967;    lb  Enclud.. 17 easanern proinnea;           in  1965-67;      /d  L365-70;       Ie  Ratio of population vnder 15 and 65 gnd
over to labor forte 15 years and over;    If  15 years and over, etlodee unasoploy.d;    [g  R.giot.red only;
lb  Disposable intone;    /i  I.cloding ... i.tat ou         -.ad nidui-a;    LI  1964-66;    _I  1967-68-                /_1  P.,-cc  cit
year. and  -oer who tall the .nana     takers that thay ten read and write..
'tOQOLAVIA       1970    Ia  Agrinottore  lend bald by Aotial aector - 'Tobbluate";    /b  Aari..lture land held by private  ul-odrn'0hcon
roa nnaan" ;   /t  Innlodiog dantiats;    /d  Intloding nidivaa, assiatant  idwives and .e. etantnua.
lowflL 1A970              1.  'Tho calcolation of theme fignrea is under diatuaaion;    /b  Rotin of populatiot  onder 15 and 65 and over to total  labor
forte;    It  Fu1l-ti.ad .d..otiom  only;    /d  1966;    Is  Ir-id. only.
R9, oNr-be- 22, 1977
lEpIlltrOR. OF SOCIAL INDIICATORS
land Ate. (than ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           Pop.l.tion  mr .-rina person - P.pIcl.tion dIvided by tn-b-  t    pr-clicing
T.t.1 - T-ta  aurfat  araa  -oprieti  lend ar.a md itland   etar..                              -alt sod feamle graduate nor..,  Itrained' or 'nerttfLed"T turons. and
Agric. -Mo.t r ....t -steoate of  gfri-t-ltc1 are a oaad touposraily or Paoin-                    tmi iary persoa  with training or eplne
nently for cr ps, patur,  arket   kitchen gardana or to ILe tallow.                         PoueinPn  oo lbd - Popoetion diy1d.d by masher of hoepft,l hod,
eveILable in poblic and private gene.ral and epeciali..d hosPital and
G"lar e  .anita (0001) - GNP pet tapita  -etn  e   t  onn    aket- to                           rehabilitation nenitr; ...Iud.e mueing bofa. and eatabiiuheaetn  ftr
net1-1-ed by  ame t-onvrain method aa World Boaok Atl.s (1973-75 boaste);                      uatdie1 and prevetive ta re.
1960; 1970 .od 1975 data.                                                                   Pnr ..Pit. snpply ofcaoisIofrnrm t) - tnpoted fttm  energy
etIvaet of net food .oppliea ayeileble In countr  per capito per day;
ponutat"on and vital.ax      n9gaoial  SnPplia. nmepriaa d-oatic prod-cion  Import, teI ......rt., and
Ponc.latio  (mid-year milli"n)   A. of July firat:  if not available, average                   changes in  totk; net -upplies .etlude anIon1 feed, ecade, quantltiee  -od
of t'tedya   n  ae;1960, 1970 .en  1971 date.                                                 in fond prnr-seing and Iane  in ditrtib-tion    -turntao   -eela-d
by FAO baaad on phyeinngite1 n.. da for n-rma  acivity end health ra-.id-
Ponul.tioo denaityf-tncr  noa re k  - Mid-y-a  population par sqnr. kiloetar                    ering enviro-tcal aeperatur., body   eight., ago and ..o di.trihotiua  of
(100h btrse.) aftot   area.                                                                   pplto,adabsig11  o   at   nbncodlv
pon.jtlationdewaty - par aouaf le of earlc. land - CPtntd ase above for               er         p netiasonel ofd .11-ng m    feam  eatr day) h- Protei 1onatofpa2art
.grinuItorel land only.                                                                       net supply of fond parday; net -upply of fond is deftiad as eboye; req.ito-
etot  for ni   ontisstala1                by u00A iEnunic FL a..rch Srie
Vital atatiect-o                                                                                 provIde fot a sinian    Ionsoe..  of 60 gretas of total prutein per day,ao
Crude birth race perthib    ..ad. av-rX. - Annual live birth. per ihou-a.d of                    20 gret  Of .nIma Inod pulampren  of ehi.h 10 Sr-m   abould be  .olo.I
ni d-yoar popolation; tt..year artftiMtin averages ending is 1960 and 1970,                   protein; thear atandards are I-et than thoaa of 75 frt  Of total protolt
ad fin-ye-e  -vrago ending in 1975 for meet recant  atimasts.                                end 23 gret  nf an1Ima  protein O an. overage for the _nrld, Pr.poerd by FAQ,
C-nds death rote  per thousand. evar.aa - Annual deatha par thaneand of mid-y.ar                 in the Third World Fond lurep.
population; ten-year aritbaeettc  vaverge  anding ian 1960 &ad 1970 and fiEL-               P'e canta  -L-'!i soeyfe   nmlndel                     Prot.ei  aupply of food
year averg. ending in 1975 for  -ot raeent estImate.                                           dnived fron anaaaedpls.i   rn   a  day.
efoot taortality rete  (/th..) - Adon-I death. of intnts under M. yea  of  ge                D-stb rate (ith.u) aas 1-4 u Aenoal d-ethe pot thousand it ago grop I--.
pa Lh'ao   liebrh.Yeaers  to children in thie  9 age  r-p;  ugg-ened us an indict.t.  of
life ente=t lty atbirrt1halre) - Av-rage otabar of yenta of life retsaining atmantion
birth; usually ftv-peora.ra.O  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1915 for develop-
tog countries                                                                               Education
Inns. renroduntion rats -  ove..g. n,eber ef ILv  daughtner  a -sIa. will hear                 gdl-ft:d enrltlment ratio  nria   achou,   ' trol l-eto   i  a             0pr
In her normal reproductive pAriod if abe emperiannes preseont age-spancnostg f                            piat   noo-g  pplti on  itld- chtldn   ogoed b-l yno
fertlltty co -a-e oly five-year avnragm  sodLsa  In 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but edjuard fop differen  lengths of prfmery ed_rolo             r   nvtiuo
for deveopig coors.uiversal td...ti.., enrollment may ce-cd 100' ni-c  tn 7e :1-lsace below
Pon..LattoP.thoodorat           lo -Itel - Coepo,od annua  groth nate  of eid-year               or above the officil achool age.
poplaion, for 1950-60, 1961-70 and  970-75.                                                 Id."aatei erollmet ratIo -  eodr  nol - Csut    as ab..oe; eao od.ry
Potulaton otmeh rate  ll - nbaen   Cepnted like aroth rate of totala.1to  requirea at Ia..tEPou  yesre of approved prImryueoucin
popolotion; different defini tioos of urban areasma  affect nonprorbility of                   provld- ganeral, yountinnal or t .achar training Itattu-tions  fot puptin
da ta amon  coutries,                                                                          of 12 to 17 y-ara of age; ..rr-spand-oc  cor reae aeterally e-clded.
Onhan population ft of total) - Ratio nf urban to total population; differant                  Ssra of -cholin-   - -vie  (firo  and enon  leea)-'rtl  er.o
definitions~ of urban arma may affect  aparabtility of data sog' noncrise.                     anoln;a   eodeylvl   uabnlIAtrugni- moay bepr-al  or
omplenely ...luded.
Affenstructure (preonnt) - Chsildrs  (0-14 years), eorklmg-age (15-64 peere),                  VoatonlenolmntIto   eiodr)-taaiwliatctaalcl.dn
en _rtird (65 y-er  end aver) as perenaga. of mId-ya   oplnen!bital,d in                                     tialo   rarpo t  which opaate idepend-ntly ora
Anna deredeey ratio - Retie op poinsltmo tader 13 and 65 and evr ta tbe..                        deparvnt. of secondary  n-tit.tutioa
of agee 15 th-tgh 66                                                                         Odult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (.bleyo read and -It) ase pe-
E-InEt  dseedency rcati   - gtio of populatime tdasd  15 and 65 and ovr to                       cantgs of total adult populetion  ag.d 15 ynan.   sd avnr.
the labor fine in ag  groe  of 15-664 peate.
etlelmIna - acceptors in,anslat v.thmsl - Cteltlve  -ber of acneptor                    Hosn
of brth-conrol dvicas under a.aaicea of natIonal Caily planning pregre                       P.eaun  pet insu iutb..  - Average nebor cf re-n  per coo  inttrn
eimc. inception.                                                                               t-eertional dwliloga  Lm urban or...; d-Ielin,ga  -et ld. n-pe-e--
F-tilr j!1a""I" - ome   Ml of mantlerd Mae    - tPeoettegee of aaarriad    en ot                 at,narsed  -nonptsd parts.
child-hearIong an. (15-44 year.) ehe see birtb-cettr1 dentea ts ell earrled                  ftcopied dcell nswthu   ed eater i)-Otnupled  --netIonal dvnlliope
L. e  n ew  age grop.                                                                       inuban andrura  ersa  wIthut Linsid  nr Outsid. piped w--e  l-tjities
ae  ettntaa o  al  onnpied d-eslinga.
teeloneent                                                             Oceeae~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:% inesorni (  or al  deeslllnga) - Convetional  dacellogs with
tueao  erre itho,sead) - ftmneseti-ly artlme parea. intlodiog  raend                      elctricilty in livitng quarters as Petnn  of tots1 deeIlinge In  rhan sod
fortes and unemployed hut aeantudig hoceawmmi, atdwdts, ate.; deitition.                       rualeras
Int -ariooa  -otria. are mot ctmprahsbIura Id.aIIIt I connected to elsotrfic                                                                  l) - Capted aso above for rura
abor forre in ajgrtoulWtar Cl) - Agri..tultral lehor Peone (60 fanniug, inerntry,               d_sin      oly.
b-;iLog  od fishingl as P.--,"t"g  ef n.n.I labor Pree.
IlSnptlope (  ef labo  Earce  - ldetploysd ar  uanally defined ae persn  who                   Conanowetmon
re able and "illi.mg to tao aJsh, sot oi a Job an a given day, reaaised ant                 lRadio enivraimr tchin n           -All ryrs  of re-i-ore  icr radio broadcaeto
of a Job, end seeking serk for a specified einiess period mat eneding one                      to genralpuli  prthosand of population; ennludes o1n-loend recrlver
meek; mey met he   apoarble beto-mo coutr1a  due to 4iff.r t defiaOtiateontrl. .d in Years when regIst-aion  of radi -set  wa  00 effete;
atueplydad .   -anre. af data, e.g.f., etp      yt office statistics, ample                date for recen.t ynam may not be tpaprable  lot- moon  -nnrtrr  ob.1ish.d
e   ..epa .cepotor  uOeasplornese  Insurance.                                             licesing.
poeemernae er         touno)-                                        ...egr  ar    a...moo  tr   seting
mLnn    distributilon  - Permentag. of prtote iacoets (both in tcabh and kimd)                    Ntan  than sight paceun; naclude enbuteon    heer..s  -nd elt
reevdby ritheet n, riceset 201. poorest 211X, sod poons-t 401 of hbassa-vbil
bolds.                                                                                       glai:brinitY (k'a'ubrr       P) te    - Aonua  consption  If tede-trial, tsaiotial,
pulcand private .lentrictry io bilawatt beore par capita, ganerally
Diatribotmn of land men,nahip - Percentage. of tend onsed by  eaelthieat 1ux                      haaed onpredutian dat, cilbh-t ailmseenn  for laneso in gride but elm-
and poet10  of land    are.                                                                     inS for leperte and spot, of electricity.
%-eein=(eprS       a np   - Per rpita ._.naJ conamesptin, in ltilo2r.
B-th ob ad totdmnettmated fre  deet produ-tlos pLus net  mports of newprint.
P"ensltien par physlicia - Population divided by n,b.r of practicing
phyatisna qualified fret a send-In   aebool an meivrsity leve.



ECONOMIC DEV8LOPMENT DATA                                        ANNEX I
(amopunt in million, of US dollar)                                    Page 3 of 4 pag.e
Aco-al                            E.t.         ftojaotad             1970-   1974-   1978-   1982-
1969       1973         1975         1976          1977       1981       1986         1973    1977    1981    1986          1969    1976    198
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                       Amounts in 1975 prio.. And .oohaxne rat, 5'                                            Ano1nt toning, growth rat             A. pasc-nt of GDY
Crone Domestic Produot               9,965    12,611    13,601    15,016              16,556    23,143    31,674           6.1      7.1      8.8      6.5        132.8    98.3    97.0
Gains fron Tetm 09 Trado(+3         -2 462    -1.577         -          259              272        728      2 353           .       .        .        .         -32.8      1.7      3.0
Gross Dooeutic Tocono                          11,034    13,601    15,275             16,828    23,871    34,027          10.1    11.1       9.1      7.3        190.0   100.0   100.0
Imports (Itol, ufs)                  2,971     4,896       6,828     6,245             7,512      9,353    10,780         13.3    11.3       5.7      2.9         39.6    40.9    39.2
E..t_ (in-1. --t             ity    2420        3.161     4,959       5.488            5.850      8.7d3    11.243           6.9    16.7    10.7       5.1         32.3    35.9    36.8
Resoucc  Cap                           531      1,733      1,959        737            1,662        370       -462           .       .        .        .           7.3      3.0      2.4
Co.sumptiom Ecpe-dit-ras 1/          5,558      6,533      7,757      8,237            9,056    12,329    18,953           4.1      8.5      8.1      8.9         74.0    54.0    51.7
Invoat-est (i-lo. otookh)            2,441      5,127      7,803      7.795            9,434    12,112    14,612          20.5    16.5       6.5      3.8         32.5    51.0    50.7
(Fid   Isossm_oot)              (2,235)   (4,787)   (6,917)   (7,795)              (8,779)  (11,385)  (13.662)        (21.0)  (16.4)   (6.7)   (3.7)         (29.8)  (48.8)  (47.7)
lomostic S ocoge                     1,907      3,589      5,914      7,038            7,772    11,543    15,074          17.1    21.0    10.4        5.5         25.4    46.0    48.4
Notional S-visgs                     1,890      3,392      5,844     6,931             7,692     11,016    14,533         15.7    22.9       9.4      5.7         25.2    45.4    46.1
MERChANOISE TRADE                        Aanoal Data at CurrePt Prio.a                                                                                                As Peromot of total
Imports
CapItal Goods                       307       800      2,404      2,352             3,180      5,234      7,236        27.0    41.0    13.3        6.7         30.4    43.8    46.3
Itn-rmodiate Good.                  355       769      1,771      1,535             1,962      3,531      6,936        21.3    26.0    15.8    14.5            35.1    28.6    30.6
Con.o-er Goode                      216        366       379        408               762        771      1,377        14.1      6.5    12.9    12.6           21.4      7.6     6.6
Food                                132       306      1,391      1.079             1,275      2.019      3.616        23.5    43.0    12.2    12.4            13.1    20.0    17.5
Tota1 Imports (cif)               1,010     2,241      5,945      5,374             6,887    11,546    19,165          22.0    32.0    13.8    10.6           100.0   100.0   100.0
Lop or 5 
Hydrocarbons                        666     1,594      4,172      4,944             5,755    11,840    20,632          24.5    37.9    19.7    14.9            71.3    93.8    94.5
Agricultorsl  -rodoota              189        230        159        175              220        211        286         5.0    -1.1    -1.0        7.9         20.2      3.3      1.3
Other Goods                          79         92        152       154               180        342        920         3,9    18.3    17.4    28.0             8.5      2.9     4.2
Totni Doporta (foh)                 934     1,916      4,483      5,273             6,155    12,393    21,838          19.7    33.9    19.1    15.2           100.0   100.0   000.0
M-rch-ndi-o  Tr-do Iedioss (i. US0)
EOports (itol. NYS) Poito  Imd-    21.4    43.3        100.0      108.5             119.0      165.2      268,8
Imports (I1cl. NF5) Price Indn   43.2    64.9          100.0      103.4             113.5      151.5      212.5
Torts of Trade Indeo                 49.5    66.7      100.0      103.0             104.9      109.0      126.5
Euports Volume Iden                100.2    97.3      100.0      107.4             112.3      165.5      175.6
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                    Apnual Dato nt 1975 Prione and Enohange Rate                                         Annual Averam- Growth Ra.e             A. nero-nt of total
Agricult-ro                          1,037        884        936      1,054            1,054      1,227      1,457        -3.9      4.5      3.9      3.5         10.5      7.2      5.5
Hydro-arbons                         3,671      4,441      3,972     4,332             4,615      6,680      7,140         4.8      1.0      9.7      1.3         37.6    29.7    29.7
Son-hyd-ocarlot lodustry             1,113      1,584      1,786      2,024            2,267      3,259      5,107         9.2      9.4      9.5      9.4         11.4    13.9    14.5
Coontruc-ton                           565      1,252      1,746      2,009            2,318      3,206      4,622        22.0    16.7       6.5      7.6         -5.8    13.8    14.3
Otb- lectoos                         3.338     4.166    4A.706        5.157            5.772      8.112    12.340          53       8.5      8.       9.          34.7    35.4    36.0
ctol  actor ct)                      9,764    12,327    13,146    14.571              16,026    22,484    30,866           6.0      6.0      8.8      6.5        100.0   106.0   100.0
Total (eocludiog hydroc--bo.s)    6.093         7,886      9,174    10,244            11,411    15,804    23.726           6.7      9.7      8.5      8.5         62.4    70.3    70.3
PUBLIC FINANCE                           As P-r-int of GDP at Current Prince
(Cento1 GCo-rnonrt)
eurret Rr ..ipts                      28.8      34.3      47.0       40.7              42.5
Curront Elp.nditu-re                  18.5      20.0      23.9        21.6             19.0                               DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                As peren-t of total
Bodgotary S-vitos                     10.3      14.3       23.1       19.1             23.5                               INV0E0TSRNT TROGRA'd                   Actual           Ent.
Coveroreot  onvetmant                  9.1      11.6       10.5       11.6             13.3                                                                     1974-73       1976-77
Loans and Adoontas (net)               6.0       4.7       24.3       16.6             23.4                               Agricolt-re (inol. irrigation and    8.6                 7.1
&oernll T...sury Boln.c.              -4.8    -10.6       -10.2       -6.6            -12.7                                 satar worha)
Edn..ation                               5.1            6.0
CURRENT EXPENDMTCPE                      An P-ercnt of Total Current .Ho_ndituca                                              Rdrnoaro31 20.1                                       19.2
Bo-hydr--rbn  Doduniry                  31.2           28.1
Educo..on                             24.4      26.5       19.4       23.7             22.9                                 (intl. miming, energy)
(lthor Sociol Serocces 2/             22.1      18.0       35.8       30.8             20.6                               Economic InfrastrOcture                 13.9           18.0
EDonomic S-rcicos                     11.5      11.1        6.4        8.1              7.3                               Social Iofrasr-octur-                   10.2           19.1
Adnioietr-tio   nod Deinfso          31.5      24.4       19.1       25.6             20.3                               other SIntor.                           10.8            2.5
U-clat..fLid                          10.5      18.0       19.3       11.8             28.0                               Total Enpenditore                      10.0 D100.0
Total                                100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0            100.0
FINANCING
SELECTED IcDICATORS                       1970-    1974-       1970-      1982-                                               Currant Badget Sorplus                  61.1            45.3
1973     1977       1981       1986                                                other Dofatio s-oro.                     15.5           33.0
A--rogo ICOR                           5.6       6.9        6.0        7.1                                                Pornion Borrowisa (nat)                 18.4           21.7
Acoroge ICOR (mom hydrocarbon           ,,       5.8        6.5        6.3                                                Total Finanring                        100.0          100.0
-con-y)
Import Elasticliy                      2.31      1.59       0.65      0.45
M Arginnl ONiuo-l Saoiogt ROto        51.8      70.8       47.2       34.6
OUTPOT, Lt0000 700ff AND
PRODUCTIV7TY DN 1976                                     Valn Added _anloonsent                                                                                 Value Addnd Par Worker
(US $ ala.)                7                       Thonesad                        C                        US 0                          2
Agi-cultcce                                     1,152                  7.5                       1,535 3/                      42.8                          750                     17.5
Ind.otry                                        8,875                57.7                          564                         15.7                      15,736                     367.3
-Sydrocarbon-                               4,680                 30.4                           38                          1.1                     123.157                  2,874.8
-Oth-ra                                     4,195                 Z7.0                          526                         14.6                       7.975                    186.1
Onrvi..n                                        5,355                 34.8                       1,276                         35.5                       4,196                      97.9
n loynd                                           .                     .                          215                          6.0
Tocal                                          15,382                100.0                       3,590                        100.0                       4,284                     100.0
Not applicohlo
Not nal1labln
- Nil or negligible
e! Stoff eatimtat
It E-clodas statistical  djositot of 055 million in 1969, 51,109 millioa in 1973.
2t  Tncildnn cossn-an  price .obhidias.
3/  Labor foron                                                                                                                                                                   EMENA CPIIB
Pabr-"ry, 1978



ANNE 1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTEMNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                    Page 4 of 4 pages
(amounts in millions -of US dollars at current prices)
e/
Actual                             Est.               projected
1972        1973       1974       1975       1976      1977       1978        1981       1986
SUMKARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)              1,440      2,016      4,935      4,869      5,569    6,635       7,491       13,307    23,899
Imports (incl. NFS)            -1,836    -2,712    -4,477    -6,598    -6,432    8,520    -9,686             -        .
Resource Balance                  -396       -696        458    -1,729        -863   -1,885      -2,195         -864         984
Net factor services                149        112         87         38       -107       -92       -161         -724       -997
Interest (net)                   -29        -63        -70       -163       -298      -272       -347         -929    -1,279
Workers' remittances             224        226        202        265        254       274        295          363         509
Other factor services (net)   -46           -51        -45        -64        -63       -94       -109         -158       -227
Current Transfers (net)             22         89         43         31         41        50         50            50         50
Balance on Current Account        -225       -495        588    -1,659        -929   -1,927    -2,306         -1,537          37
Private Direct Investment           18         51        360         97        179       200        200           200        200
Official Capital Grants             16        -39       -427         -          -         -           6             8          8
Public M&LT Loan Disbursements  413         1,597       -631      1,705      2,157    2,493       2,551        3,667      3,515
- Repayments                      -137       -234       -467       -433       -517      -712       -860       -1,938    -3,402
Net Disbursements                  276      1,363        164      1,272      1,640    1,781       1,691        1,729         113
Capital transactions n.e.i.         88       -367       -525         72       -262       -54        -             -          -
Change in reserves
(increase   -)                 -173       -603       -160         218      -628         -         409         -400       -358
Net reserves (end year)            482      1,096      1,315      1,066      1,608    1,608       1,200        2,100      3,826
(in months of import
equivalent)                       3.2        4.8        3.5        1.9        3.0       2.3        1.5          1.8        2.0
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like    16             3         -          -          -         -
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                               -          25        158         48        151       120
Other multilateral                  3         -          -          -          -
Governments                       155        375        168        244        214        80
Suppliers                         119        340        666      2,116        911       700
Financial institutions            303      1,494        399      1,640      1,279       800
Bonds and other ML&T               25         71         61         77         -         -
Total Public M&LT Loans             605      2,305      1,452      4,125      2,555    1,700
Actual                     Est.
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                           1973       1974       1975       1976      1977
Public Debt Outstanding Disbursed            2,931      3,305      4,474      5,853     7,634
Interest on Public Debt                       83        218        234        381       423
Repayments on Public Debt                    234        467        433        517       712
Total Public Debt Service                    317        685        667        898    1,135
Burden on Export Earnings (X)
Debt Service Ratio                          15.7       13.9       13.7       16.1      17.1
Average Terms of Public Debt
Interest as % of Prior Year DOD              5.6        7.4        7.1        8.5       7.2
Repayments as % of Prior Year DOD           15.7       15.9       13.1       11.6      12.2
IBRD Debt Out and Disbursed                    7.5        6.4       36.3       85.3    184.0
IBRD as 1 of Public DOD                        0.3        0.2        0.8        1.5       2.4
IBRD, as % Public Debt Service                 1.1        0.5        0.9        0.7       0.8
EXTERNAL DEBT                         Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1976
Disbursed only              %
IBRD                                          85                    1.5
other multilateral                             4
Governments                                1,074                   18.3
Suppliers                                  1,664                   28.4
Financial Institutions                     2,892                   49.5
Bonds                                        134                    2.3
Total Public M&LT Debt                       5,853                  100.0
e/  Staff Estimate                                                                                           EMENA CPIIB
February 1978
. Not applicable
- Nil or negligible



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.        STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                               US $ million
Credit                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number       Year   Borrower                    Purpose         Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                     80.5
912 AL       1973   The Democratic and          Highways        18.5                 4.6
Popular Republic of
Algeria
913 AL       1973   The Democratic and          Education        6.0                 5.1
Popular Republic of
Algeria
995 AL       1974   The Democratic and          Ports           70.0                28.4
Popular Republic of
Algeria
996 AL        1974   Railways-SNTF              Railways        49.0                 7.7
997 AL       1974   Power-SONELGAZ              Power           38.5                12.4
1158 AL        1975   Banque Algerienne          Industrial      40.0                36.1
de Developpement          Credit
1159 AL        1975   The Democratic and         Tech. Asst.      8.0                 7.6
Popular Republic of        Rural Dev.
Algeria
1185 AL        1976   Societe Nationale des    SNMC              46.0                34.7
Materiaux de               Expansion
Construction
1209 AL        1976   The Democratic and         Education       47.0                45.6
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1293 AL        1976   Power-SONELGAZ             Power           57.5                45.3
1378 AL        1977   The Democratic and         Education       48.5                48.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1407 AL        1977   The Democratic and         Highways        41.5                41.5
Popular Republic of
Algeria
1427 AL        1977   The Democratic and         Ports           80.0                80.0
Popular Republic of
Algeria
TOTAL                                             631.0               397.5
of which has been repaid                   81.1
Total now outstanding                             549,9
Amount sold                       34.8
of which has been repaid 34.8
549.9
Total now held by Bank
Total undisbursed                                 397.5               397.5
Note: A US$ 82 million loan for a First Sewerage Project was approved on April 4, 1978,
but has not yet been signed.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS - None (not a member)



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 912-AL First-Highway Project; US$18.5 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
r :ember 31, 1976, (Current) June 30, 1978.
The overall progress of the project has been satisfactory. A
Comptetion Report is currently being prepared. Loan funds are now almost
entirely committed; a further extension or the Closing Date to December 31,
1978, may be requested, however, to permit full disbursement. It is proposed
that the outstanding non-committed funds, which amount to about $1.3 million,
be used to finance extensions of consultant contracts for feasibility and
engineering studies for the proposed Third Highway Project (FY79).
Loan 913-AL First Education Project; US$6.0 million Loan of June 19, 1973;
Effective Date: October 26, 1973; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976, (Current) December 31, 1978.
Implementation of this project is over two years behind schedule due
mainly to managerial shortcomings, a change of responsibility for the Institute
of Mining and Metallurgy (IMMA) in 1975 from the Ministry of Industry to the
Ministry of Higher Education, and especially the diffuse nature of the Institute
of Agricultural Technology (IAT) element. Agreement has now been reached that:
the amount allocated to the IAT would be cancelled; equipment purchases for
IMMA would be approved up to about $1.65 million, an amount which has now been
committed. The implementation of the remaining component, equipment for two
training centers of the Algerian Petroleum Institute, is proceeding satis-
factorily. It is thus expected that the loan can be closed as presently
scheduled.
Loan 995-AL Port Project: US$70.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Work is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are somewhat
behind schedule but are expected to catch up soon. The project cost, based
on contracts already received, may be slightly below the appraisal estimates
of May 1974.
Loan 996-AL Railway Project; US$49.0 million Loan of June 10, 1974; Effective
Date: November 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The physical execution of the project, which supports the railway's
rehabilitation program, is nearing satisfactory completion and procurement
has proceeded on schedule. Several important studies, however, will not be
completed by December 31, 1978 and the Closing Date may have to be extended.
Freight traffic has fully recovered from its 1976 decline, and passenger
traffic continues to exceed forecasts. A possible second project, to be
based on the next Four Year Development Plan (1979-1983), is under discussion.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Loan 997-AL First Power Project; US$38.5 milion Loan of June 10, 1974; Effec-
tive Date: December 20, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project comprises high voltage substations, gas turbine plants,
dispatch facilities, and consulting services for management and engineering
services. Physical progress of the project is satisfactory. All main con-
tracts have been awarded. Delays have been encountered in the provision of
financial information due to SONELGAZ's lack of experienced staff and inter-
departmental changes of personnel. There have been some delays in construc-
tion which may require an extension of the Closing Date.
Loan 1158-AL Development Finance Company Project; US$40 million Loan to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement of September 4, 1975;
Effective Date: January 5, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Progress in committing funds under this project has been slower than
anticipated, although the rate has been accelerating recently. As of April 15,
1978, $25.6 million had been committed, compared to the appraisal estimate of
the full loan amount. This is due mainly to a substantial delay in setting
up the appraisal unit in BAD. Performance remains disappointing as regards
institutional arrangements for BAD to participate as a decision-maker in the
investment decision process, the improvement of which was an important project
objective. The Bank and the Government are now discussing the situation and
ways to improve it.
Loan 1159-AL Technical Assistance (Rural Development) Project; US$8.0 million
Loan of September 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The credit sub-project is now proceeding satisfactorily. The con-
tract with the consulting firm (IRAM) for the extension subproject has been
signed and all nine expatriate technicians are in the field. Negotiations for
the mountain subproject have been concluded, resulting in contract signature
with Agrar und Hydrotechnik; mobilization of the team is underway. After
rejecting all consulting firm submissions for the steppe subproject, Govern-
ment solicited a single-source bid from a consortium headed by the South
Australian Government. Signature of the contract is imminent. The concract
for the expatriate advisor to the project was signed in August 1977 and the
advisor has been in Algiers since October 1977.
Loan 1185-AL SNMC Expansion Project: US$46 million Loan of January 7, 1976;
Effective Date: April 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of the cement plant is approximately six months behind
schedule but now proceeding satisfactorily. Training of Algerian personnel
is also somewhat delayed due to lack of qualified candidates but arrangements
for necessary technical assistance are underway. Appropriate measures are
being taken by SNMC and the Government to ensure respect of the agreed finan-
cial performance targets. The contract for the technical assistance program



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
for the Societe Nationale de Comptabilite (SNC) has been signed after some
delay due to managerial problems in SNC. SNC is now recruiting the necessary
Algerian personnel, and the program should be operational soon.
Loan 1209-AL Second Education Project: US$47 million Loan of Ma :h 9, 1976;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of this project is progressing satisfactorily. Fol-
lowing initial delays in preparing construction documents for Phase I due to
administrative problems, construction is now scheduled to start in September
1978; similar delays in preparing ICB bid documents for equipment procurement
are now being offset. Implementation of the technical assistance program for
the Institute of Electricity and Electronics is progressing satisfactorily;
the remaining technical assistance program is well underway, though somewhat
behind schedule.
Loan 1293-AL Second Power Project: US$57.5 million Loan of July 8, 1976;
Effective Date: December 2, 1976; Closing Date: December 30,
1980.
The Project consists of the transmission/substation component of
SONELGAZ's 1976-1980 program comprising about 3,300 km of transmission lines
and 4,000 MVA of substation capacity, and studies of SONELGAZ's organization
and management methods. Overall progress is satisfactory. Procurement for
substations to be financed from the loan has been approved by the Bank, but
some delays have occurred in construction. SONELGAZ has not yet submitted to
the Bank a financial plan indicating how the financial covenants agreed upon
will be achieved. This plan and appropriate decisions are now expected by
the middle of this year.
Loan 1378-AL Third Education Project: US$48.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
This project got off to a good start, although about three months
delay has lately been experienced due to changes in personnel at the Ministry
of Education at the end of 1977. Draft bidding documents have now been
prepared for equipment procurement for the 15 technicums; start of their
construction has been scheduled for November 1978. Implementation of equip-
ment procurement and civil works for the two vocational training centers is
now over one year behind schedule.
Loan 1407-AL Second Highways Project: US$41.5 million, Loan of May 15, 1977;
Effective Date: October 5, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Boudouaou-Lakhdaria
section of the Algiers-Constantine road, consultant services for construction
supervision and technical assistance. Bids for construction were opened on
April 30, 1978. Although numerous foreign and local firms were prequalified,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
only very few submitted final bids. The lack of competition resulted in
bidding substantially in excess of original estimates. The Government is
currently evaluating the responsiveness of the bids submitted, and is expected
to submit a detailed evaluation report by mid-June which should include
specific proposals for further action.
Loan 1427-AL Jijel Port Project: US$80.0 million, Loan of September 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The project comprises the construction of a new port to serve a
steel complex to be constructed adjacent to the port; assistance to the port
construction company, SONATRAM; and consultant services for project design
and supervision and for technical assistance. Prequalification of bidders
for port construction has been completed. Tender documents have been prepared
and are being reviewed.



ANNEX III
Page 1
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Government to prepare
the project:                                  Nine months (January to
September 1977)
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:            Government, Consultants
(c)  Project first identified:                     December, 1976
(d)  Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:               October, 1977
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:           May 12, 1978
(f)  Planned Date of effectiveness:                September 30, 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank staff, through frequent missions, will review progress in
technical assistance arrangements essential to project objectives, procure-
ment, construction and planning activities. A start-up mission following Loan
signing would discuss detailed implementation schedules as well as procedures
for procurement.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(i) the submitted training program for the Technical Teacher Train-
ing College (ENSEP) would be implemented to the extent possible
and the Bank would be informed regularly of all measures taken
affecting the employment conditions of traineee and graduate
teachers of ENSEP (para. 34);
(ii) advisory councils at the project institutes would have
representatives from the economic sectors benefitting from
the training provided, and views would be exchanged annually
with the Bank on the recommendations of these councils
(para. 35);
(iii) an evaluation system, including a tracer system for analysis
of job placement and performance, would be developed for the



ANNEX III
Page 2
project institutes and forwarded for Bank review sufficiently
in advance of their inauguration to permit Bank comments; the
results of the tracer studies would be transmitted to the Bank
periodically over five years following first outputs from the
project institutions (para. 35);
(iv) terms of reference for the three studies included in the
project, that is development of maintenance trades, devel-
opment of educational broadcasting and pedagogical research
on vocational training, would be forwarded sufficiently in
advance of their commencement to permit Bank comments there-
on (para. 37); and
(v) bid documents would specify that equipment suppliers would be
required to provide the necessary training of key personnel
in the use and maintenance of sophisticated equipment; an
appropriate equipment maintenance plan would be prepared for
the project institutes and forwarded for Bank review within
one year of opening of these institutes (para. 40).
Additional conditions of effectiveness include the following:
(i) evidence has been furnished to the Bank that surveys of exist-
ing facilities have been made and needs for additional works
on and around the construction sites have been identified
(para. 45); and
(ii) preliminary site plans and schematic architectural designs
for the project institutes have been furnished to the Bank
(para. 45).






ALGIERS B.                 loN'
z4e - <~~~~~~~~~~ ,-edea 4<sX // >< = /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ <;~~NATIOALNSTTTEOMCHNALNGNEERIN
VIHIGHEFITECHNICIASI (    NIMEA
M` I     ATV  AI/ CeAL TeaCH                                                                                                                   I  C
V S t: 0    0 f                                                           W  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f  X    /    Lf~~~~~~~~~C S' A.
(I-                                                                            ______C   SCNA                                A ROADS
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ,---                                                                 Ai
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI RODS32
7hIc .,Z toe bt t_Wey Har Wc HIhet#s eD ffscIchlv o the   ~                          4                          K LOMETERS                                        -  -     DESERT TRACKS
haoae.ahotm05   eOtittIltotIchr an. the at tfSh W,lHtatdh_         .-                                                                                                       RIVERS_
the h3st. anvtgtet ir   th lnba eetw of st env,t watty et nvHmre,tt>tt
ecctce of etchh                                                                                                                                                   *-a ete  INTERMITTENT LAKES_ 
- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                     Xl 
40~~~~~E 



