Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.1831-AL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
May 26, 1978
Education & Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1977)
- Official Rate
US$ 1.00   =   Algerian Dinar (DA) 4.05
DA 1.00   =   US$ 0.25
Measures
I m         =   3.28 feet
1           =  10.76 square feet
1 km2       =   0.38 square mile
1 hectare   =   2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR  ................................                           1
Socio-economic Background  ...........................                          1
Development and Reform of the Education and
Training System  ...................................                         2
Educational  Issues  ..................................                         4
Manpower Requirements  ...............................                          7
Educational Finance  ................                                           9
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education  ....                 .........         9
II.    THE PROJECT  .........................................                          il
Introduction  ........................................                         il
e «                     Objectives and Scope  ................................                          il
National  Institute of Mechanical Engineering  ........                        12
(a)   Engineers  .................................                      12
(b)   Higher Technicians  ........................                      13
Institute for Vocational  Instructor Training  ........                        14
Technical Teacher Training College  ..................                         15
Evaluation System  ...................................                         16
Technical Assistance  ................................                         17
III.    PROJECT COST,  FINANCING,  IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS  .....................................                        18
Cost of the Project  .................................                         18
Project Financing  ...................................                         21
Recurrent  Costs  .....................................                        21
Implementation  ......................................                         21
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS  ..................................                          24
Benefits  ............................................                         24
Risks  ...............................................                         25
Key Implementation Dates  ............................                         26
*               V.    AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                   ...........       27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1.   CHARTS AND TABLES
Chart 1     Structure of the Formal Education and Training System
Tables 1.1  Comparative Education Indicators
2.1 Technical Assistance for Experts and Fellowship Training
3.1 Unit Capital Costs and Areas per Student
3.2 Contingency Allowances
Chart 2     (a) Implementation Schedule, NIME
(b) Implementation Schedule, NIMET
(c) Implementation Schedule, IVIT
(d) Implementation Schedule, ENSEP
3.3 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
2.   RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.   Selected Working Papers
MAP



GLOSSARY
Ministries
MOL:           Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training
MOHI:          Ministry of Heavy Industryl/
MOLI:          Ministry of Light Industriesl/
1/
MOEP:          Ministry of Energy and Petrochemicals-:
MOE:           Ministry of Education (changed 1977 from Ministry of Primary
and Secondary Education)
MOHE:          Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
Institutions
NIME:          National Institute of Mechanical Engineering (Engineers)
NIMET:         National Institute of Mechanical Engineering (Higher Technicians)
IVIT:          Institute for Vocational Instructor Training
ENSEP:         Ecole Normale Supérieur de l'Enseignement Polytechnique
(Technical Teacher Training College)
INELEC:        Institute of Electricity and Electronics
Education
Fundamental    Nine years schooling aiming to fuse practical with general
Polytechnic  education, introduce science and technological concepts and
Education:   to relate closely to the world of work; divided into three
cycles: grades 1-3 for basic learning, reading, writing and
arithmetic, grades 4-6 for introducing the abstract,
and grades 7-9 for orientation; grades 1-9 would constitute
a unity replacing the former division between primary and
middle schools.
Lycée:         First and second :ycle secondary school (grades 7-13) offering
after grade 10 specialized streams in Arabic, Huumanities,
Mathematics and Sciences (General Lycees) or in Industrial
Arts, Mathematics, Commerce and Economics (Technical Lycées).
Upon completing courses and passing the required examinations,
students are awarded the "Baccalauréat" (various specializations)
which qualifies for entry into university
Technicum:     A new type of technical secondary school (grades 10-12) with
strong vocational bias, designed to produce middle-level
technicians
1/ Subdivided 1977 from Ministry of Industry and Energy.



ITE:               Institut de Technologie d'Education (teacher training,
1 and 2 year courses, grades 10-14)
Institute of
Technology:      A new type of secondary and/or post-secondary institution
providing intensive, specialized and job-oriented training
for professional and para-professional personnel, with
flexible entry requirements and strong emphasis on
practical subjects.  Courses vary from four to five years
after grades 12-13 for the professional level and from one
to four years for the technician level
CET:               Collège d'Enseignement Technique (vocational school,
grades 9-11)
VTC:               Vocational Training Center



ALGERIA
BASIC DATA (1977) a/
.
Area                                               2,381,700 km2
Total Population (estimation)                     17.7 million
Current Rate of Population Growth                 3.2% p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                    US$990
Literacy Rate                                      35% (estimate)
Primary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 6-12                    78% b/
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 13-18                   26% b/
Higher Education Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 19-23                   4%
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of Total
Government Expenditures                         20.4%
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as Percentage of GDP                  9%
a/ See Annex 1 for comparative educational data
b/ Gross enrollment ratios



t.,
e
e
0



I. -THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-economic Background
1.01      Since independence in 1962, Algeria has pursued a policy of rapid
industrialization and structural reforms based upon expansion of oil and gas
production for export. During the Development Program 1967-1969 and the First
Development Plan 1970-1973, emphasis was placed on heavy industries and highly
capital intensive technologies. In the Second Development Plan 1974-1977,
development of mechanical and electrical engineering industries manufacturing
capital goods for various sectors of the economy has been fostered, and
increasing emphasis is now being placed also on light industries producing
major consumer goods, as well as the development of lagging sectors such as
transportation and telecommunications, housing and construction and urban
infrastructure. Shortages of trained manpower have constantly been a major
hindrance to economic development and efficiency.
1.02      The following are three basic goals for long-term national economic
and social development which were incorporated in the Second Development Plan
1974-1977: (a) expansion/reorganization of the country's productive base to
reach self-sustained growth with full employment, (b) economic independence,
and (c) improvement of income distribution among regions; they have been
reaffirmed (with some revision) in the National Charter approved by referendum
of June 27, 1976. The strategy decided for achievement of these goals may be
summarized as follows:
(a)  continued build-up of a diversified, integrated and
geographically well-distributed industrial base, which
is viewed as the means of achieving the long-term
growth and full employment objectives;
(b)  reinforcement of the new management structures of the
Algerian economy (central planning, public enterprises,
agrarian revolution, decentralization, workers' partic-
ipation in the management of public enterprises) to
strengthen Algerian control and improve efficiency of
investments and production;
(c)  limited expansion and egalitarian distribution of personal
incomes so as to generate adequate national savings for
investment and avoid excessive recourse to external
sources; and
(d)  rapid expansion of education and training to respond
quickly to the demand for skilled manpower and to create
a socio-cultural environment conducive to modernization
and development.
1.03      Solid successes were achieved by 1976, in accelerating investment
and growth, maintaining a high rate of national savings and reducing unemploy-
ment from 17% in non-agricultural sectors in 1973 to 10%. The non-agricultural



-2-
labor force--increased at 6.6% annually between 1973 and 1977 compared with
near stagnation in the agricultural work force which grew at only 1% in the
same period. 1/  However, planned diversification of investment was not
achieved, industrial investment increased very rapidly in relation to avail-
able skilled labor and financial resources, output growth did not match
investment and employment creation, and imbalances and bottlenecks continued
especially in infrastructure, housing and urban public services. Since 1976
the government has, accordingly, taken effective corrective action enabling
early control of the domestic and foreign financial situation and a more
balanced sectoral distribution of investment. These corrective actions are
expected to be strengthened in the Third Development Plan expected to be
published in 1978.
Development and Reform of the Education and Training System
1.04      The education and training system in Algeria is expected to play a
key rele in implementing the country's development strategy. Educational
development strategy is aligned, accordingly, to national goals for political,
economic and social development and is based on major structural and pedagog-
ical reforms to be undertaken over three plan periods to 1985; quantitative
targets have been defined in detail for the First Education Plan 1974-1977 and
in broader terms for later plans; details of the Second Education Plan are at
present being finalized. The strategy is based on the following main policy
objectives:
(a) arabization, which entails the development of a socialist system
within Arabic-Islamic culture and fostering the Arabic language
as the main medium of instruction and communication;
(b) democratization, which is aimed at reducing inequalities in
allocating resources among levels of education and regions of
the country;
(c) structural reform to provide a compulsory nine years of funda-
mental polytechnic education followed by three-year upper stage
courses in lycées and technicums, or by teacher training courses;
the reform implies shortening of lower stage courses from four
to three years (Grades 7-9) and development of polytechnic edu-
cation, phasing out of lower technical and agricultural schools
and rapid build-up of technicums;
(d) curricula reform to render them more relevant to the needs of
the economy and society and to the realities of local environ-
ments;
l/   In order to expand agriculture, which represented about 7% of GDP and
43% of the work force in 1976, a system of "self-managed" government-
owned farms has been created and major programs have been launched with
the "Agrarian Revolution" to redistribute private land and cattle, estab-
lish cooperatives and provide adequate social facilities and extension
services.



- 3 -
(e)  reform of vocational and middle-level technician training
whereby the CET (Colleges d'Enseignement Technique) are phased
out, the technical lycée courses are continuously up-dated in
line with the needs of industry and main emphasis is being
placed on a new type of middle-level technician training in a
national network of "technicums" being established extending
over grades 10-12 and strongly job-oriented; the training of
skilled and semi-skilled workers would be concentrated in
vocational training centers administered by the technical
ministries;
(f) reform of higher education, including bias towards science and
technology, improvement of efficiency, modernization of teach-
ing technologies and gradual incorporation of the Institutes
of Technology in the university system;
(g) reduction of adult illiteracy from the existing very high rate
of about 65%.
1.05      These structural and curricular reforms were introduced with the
First Education Plan 1974-1977 for completion by 1985, but are unlikely to be
achieved before 1990. The policy objectives and reforms are educationally
sound and in line with the socio-economic goals of the country's development
strategy. However, because of the enormity of the operation required to
develop the education system since independence, including expansion to
improve participation (while keeping pace with an annual population growth of
over 3%) and to meet ever-increasing manpower requirements as well as the
introduction of necessary structural, pedagogical and administrative reforms,
it is not surprising that many gaps, bottlenecks, inequalities and weaknesses
remain.
1.06      The Ministry of Education (MOE) has during the plan period delegated
much administrative authority to the 31 wilayate (provinces). The Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research (MOHE) wÎll gradually assume respon-
sibility for all post-secondary education. The technical ministries, espe-
cially the Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training (MOL) and the Ministries
of Heavy Industry (MOHI), of Light Industries (MOLI) and of Energy and Petro-
chemicals (MOEP), still retain responsibility for training large numbers of
skilled workers. Since 1974 primary and secondary education are being reformed
from the traditional French 6-4-3 system to nine years fundamental polytechnic
education in grades 1-9 (a unified system of basic education for all, aiming
to relate education more closely to training and employment), followed by
three-year courses in lycées and technicums (a new type of upper secondary
technical school with a strong vocational bias), or by teacher training
courses.
1.07      The education system has expanded very rapidly, especially in recent
years. Primary enrollment increased by 7% annually during 1972-1977 to 2.8
million or 78% of the 6-12 age-group (1984/85 projection 3.4 million); post-
primary enrollment increased by over 17% annually during 1972-1977 to 0.6 mil-
lion or 26% enrollment ratio (1984/85 projection 1.1 million); an even higher



- 4 -
annual rate of growth of 24% was recorded in post-secondary education over
this period to 92,000 in 1976 (1984/85 projection 140,000).  Due to the very
rapid growth of enrollments, expenditures in education are expected to account
for a high 9.0% of GDP in 1977 while capital expenditures on education should
absorb over 22% of public capital expenditures. Wastage rates are high, many
inequalities among regions still remain and further improvements in girls'
participation at all levels is required. Reorientation of curriculum emphasis
towards practical, scientific and technological subjects is only beginning to
take effect.  Algerianization of teaching staff in secondary and higher educa-
tion is problematic as nationals comprise about 70% and 45% respectively, of
teachers at these levels. Lack of a collated presentation of projections of
manpower needs is also a serious weakness which hampers efficient educational
planning and administration.
Educational Issues
1.08      The main educational issues are summarized in this section under
five headings: (a) External Efficiency, (b) Fundamental and Secondary Educa-
tion, (c) Post-secondary Education, (d) Vocational Training, and (e) Adult
Education.
(a) External Efficiency
1.09      The current manpower situation in Algeria is characterized by severe
shortages of skilled and experienced manpower and this has constituted a pri-
mary constraint to economic and social development.  The problem is alleviated
at the highest levels through the recruitment of expatriates but this is only
a temporary expedient and is indeed very costly to the government.  Replace-             e
ment of the estimated 22,200 expatriate specialists will be a lengthy task but
an important one if the aim of economic independence and reliance on the
country's own resources is to be achieved. Currently, expatriates account for
55% of university teachers, 30% of secondary teachers and 40% of professionals
and higher technicians in industry. It is estimated that nearly a quarter of
all engineers in Algeria are expatriate.
1.10      Algeria's annual requirements for graduates from universities and
higher technician courses in the period 1977-1990 are estimated at around
24,000 including 2,400 engineers and 5,600 higher technicians. Outputs in
1976 were about 6,200, indicating a considerable gap between demand and supply
from local sources, currently being filled largely by expatriates. However,
on present indications, the higher education system will have sufficient
capacity by 1990 to meet the long term high level manpower needs of the coun-
try.   Furthermore, by the mid-1980s, experienced Algerian graduates should
be available in sufficient numbers to begin the progressive replacement of
expatriates.
1.11      At the middle levels of technical and managerial manpower, the gov-
ernment has chosen not to rely on expatriates to cover the gap between demand
and supply from local sources. It is estimated that annual requirements for
industrial and commercial technicians will average around 36,000 to 1990 while
supply in 1977 is only 11,500. The gap will be progressively closed with the



expansion of the technicum system but the recent reduction in the building
program from 10 to 5 technicums per year (due mainly to construction con-
straints) will prolong middle level manpower shortages. This will pose not
merely a continuing development constraint but also sustain the upward pres-
sure on salaries as all sectors compete for scarce skilled manpower.
1.12      Annual requirements for skilled craftsmen are expected to be around
69,000 in the period 1977-1990 while current outputs are only around 20,000.
The substantial gap between demand and supply is recognized by the government
and expansion of the vocational training system is being given high priority.
In particular, the Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training plans to raise
its training capacity more than three-fold (to 57,000) through the expansion
of its vocational training network to 96 centers by 1981. This should provide
an additional 25,000-30,000 skilled workers per annum by the early 1980s.
Expansion of vocational training capacity in other ministries, especially the
ministries responsible for light and heavy industry, should meet most of the
shortage of skilled workers by 1990.
(b) Fundamental and Secondary Education
1.13      Equity:  Despi.e government efforts, inequalities are still marked,
both by sex and by region. The average national enrollment proportion for
girls at primary level is 41% with a minimum of 26% in the Adrar wilaya; the
national average in secondary education is 34% with a minimum of 22% in the
Ouargla wilaya; the national average percentage of girls in technical educa-
tion is 21%. Similarly, the overall enrollment ratio varies: for primary,
maximum 95% in Algiers and minimum 41% in Djelfa; for secondary, maximum 26%
in Algiers to 9% in Medea. It is expected that implementation of the decen-
tralization policy will facilitate reduction of these inequalities and
achievement of universal fundamental education (grades 1-9), but succcess
will require a major effort, especially in the rural areas.
1.14      Internal Efficiency:  While improvements have been made in recent
years to average repeater and dropout rates, 12% and 5% respectively, in
primary, 10% and 5% in middle schools (grades 7-9), and 10% and 10% in second-
ary (grades 10-12), there is still much room for improvement. This weakness
is partly due to qualitative shortcomings such as irrelevant curricula, faulty
teaching methods and lack of teaching aids, but also to sociological pressures
including the traditional role of women and language problems.
1.15      Teacher Training:  While Algerianization of primary teaching staff
is almost fully achieved (only 2% expatriates, 1976), over 30% of the 22,600
post-primary teachers are expatriates.  Supply of sufficient teachers with the
required qualifications (especially technical, workshop and science teachers)
to meet rapidly increasing enrollments, replace expatriates and implement the
curricular reforms involved in the introduction of fundamental education and
of technicums constitutes a major problem requiring priority attention. The
related problem of lack of competitivePess of the teaching profession with
industry is under study. 1/
1/   The government decided in June 1977 to give priority attention to improv-
*           ing teachers' salaries and conditions.



- 6 -
1.16      Administration:  The Education Plan 1974-1977, set within the pers-
pective framework of three four-year plans during 1974-1985, was well designed
to implement government-approved policies and programs and has acted as a                s
strong motivating force for overall administration in the MOE. Nevertheless,
there is a marked weakness in inter-directorate and inter-ministerial coor-
dination of programming activities which is particularly acute in the case
of teacher training in which both MOHE and the MOE are concerned. Very high
costs are also problematic. As annual recurrent costs already absorb about
22% of the government's recurrent budget, a close check must be maintained
through improved efficiency and strict policies on scholarships, boarding and
deployment of teachers; this is particularly necessary in view of the need to
make teachers' salaries more competitive. Cost of construction per student
place is extremely high and control must be exercised through rational loca-
tion planning and standardized construction. 1/
1.17      Construction by the government of a new Center for Research and
Development in Algiers (formerly the Institut Pédagogique National, IPN, now
incorporating the National Center for Science and Equipment and the Norms and
Standards Unit) is due to start during 1978. The center, which will have four
directorates - pedagogy, audio-visual aids, printing and finance - will also
have responsibility for coordinating the work of other related research
agencies and of 31 wilayate CRDDP (Centre Regional de Diffusion de Documents
Pedagogiques). It will play an important role in the development of the
education system and will require technical assistance to do so effectively.
(c) Post-Secondary Education
1.18      While the government has decided that the MORE will assume respon-
sibility for all post-secondary education, the required coordination with
other concerned ministries on university planning has not yet been achieved
by this ministry. The MOHE Master Plan 1976-1985 (Programme de Developpement
de l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique 1976-1985) does
not spell out how absorption of the Technological Institutes controlled by
other ministries will be effected. This plan projects university enrollments
to increase to 80,000 in 1981 and 140,000 in 1985 but contains no analytical
justification of this expansion on manpower grounds; nor does it contain ade-
quate analysis of pedagogical aspects and scientific/technological develop-
ments. 2/ Feasibility of achieving these targets (even if justified) is
questionable, as detailed educational and architectural briefs for the period
to 1980 are not yet available. In any event, improved planning of enrollment
1/   The inordinately high construction cost is due to scarcity of trained
manpower in the construction industry, low productivity, high import
taxes on raw materials and management shortcomings, which have affected
virtually all sectors of the economy.
2/   The plan is based, however, on a well prepared document:  ROMCONSULT,
Etude Concernant le Developpement de l'Enseignement SupJerieur en Algerie
1976-1985, Bucarest, 1975.
.



structure, study programs, physical facilities and staff development (55%
expatriate teaching staff in universities) by the MOHE is required. Meanw-
hile, some other ministries continue in an uncoordinated way to plan their
own post-secondary expansion. In brief, a thorough, comprehensive plan for
all post-secondary education based on defined manpower requirements and agreed
by the MOHE and the other concerned ministries is required as a basis for
rational development at this level.
(d) Vocational Training
1.19      Responsibility for training craftsmen and technicians is vested in
a number of ministries. Among the most important training programs are those
conducted in the Vocational Training Center networks of the Ministry of Labor
and Vocational Training (MOL), the Ministries of Heavy and Light Industries
and of Energy and Petrochemicals, and in the Institutes of Technology. There
is a piecemeal approach to manpower planning in this area too, highlighting
the need for improvement of government procedures on manpower projection to
provide both overall and sectoral manpower forecasts and clarify linkages
between manpower needs, and institutional enrollment and output structures.
(e) Adult Education
1.20      Despite a wide-ranging approach (including correspondence courses
and use of the media), adult illiteracy still stands at about 65%. Progress
has been slow mainly because of the greater emphasis placed on rapid develop-
ment of the formal system and administrative shortcomings. A target has now
been set to reduce the rate to 50% by 1981 and major responsibility for
improvement has been assigned to the National Literacy Center and the National
Center for Complementary Education (specialized organizations being affiliated
to the Center for Educational Research) whose resources are being increased.
The Assistant-Director in the Directorate of Teacher Training and Adult Edu-
cation of the MOE also has responsibility for development in this area. How-
ever, a comprehensive strategy for the reduction of adult literacy has yet
to be developed and unless there is a much stronger commitment, achievement
of the 1981 literacy target will prove difficult.
Manpower Requirements
1.21      The basic objectives for national economic and social development
are expected to remain virtually unchanged in the Third Development Plan,
currently being drafted for presentation to the FLN Congress (National Party)
during 1978.  The size of the education and training effort required to
achieve these objectives is shown in the following table:



-8 -
Manpower Requirements 1977-1990
Average       Output         Additional Annual Output
Annual         from       Bank Projects        Proposed
Requirements   System        (Education        Education IV
Category                1977-90        1977        I, II, III)       (1985 onwards)
Engineers                  2,400          370           360                225
of which:
Mechanical                400            26             0                225
Higher Technicians        5,600         1,660         2,095              1,250
of which:
Mechanical                 950           42             0                550
Vocational
Instructors              770          200             0                 450
Technical/Work-
shop Teachers            300           30             0                 250
Middle Technicians
Commercial             19,700        4,000         1,020                   0
Industrial             16,600        7,500         3,480                   0
Skilled Workers          69,000       20,000           480                   0
1.22      While much remains to be done in required expansion, reorganization
and equalization, and improvement of efficiency and quality of the education
and training system (including the development of literacy and adult educa-
tion), it is obvious from the table above that supply of high and middle-
level manpower and skilled craftsmen required by industry still remains a
top priority. The scarcity of engineers and higher technicians to fill high-
level technical posts and to assume managerial responsibility together with
the shortages of middle-level and skilled workers, are adversely affecting
the efficiency and productivity of investments in almost all sectors of the
economy, and are leading to major bottlenecks in economic development (paras.
1.01, 1.09).
1.23      In the past, the government has relied heavily on expatriates to
meet shortages in high-level manpower--a very costly, temporary approach
(para. 1.09). The establishment of INELEC, the National Institute of Elec-
tricity and Electronics will alleviate the problem in the electricity/
electronics area but shortages of high-level manpower in mechanical engineer-
ing have become critical. As the table in para. 1.21 shows, annual require-
ments of engineers and higher technicians during 1977-1990 are estimated at
2,400 and 5,600 respectively, including about 400 mechanical engineers and
950 mechanical higher technicians, respectively; present yearly output is
minimal (only 26 mechanical engineers and 42 mechanical higher technicians).



- 9 -
1.24      Establishment of a network of thirty technicums (paras. 1.11, 1.12)
will increase the supply of middle-level technicians and a major expansion
of the network of vocational training centers for skilled craftsmen, (includ-
ing an additional ninety-six to be completed by the MOL by 1981), will greatly
reduce the shortage of skilled workers. This expansion, however, has made an
increased supply of vocational instructors extremely urgent, especially as
the existing instructor training center at Kouba is rather obsolete and has
only 290 places. The MOE has realistically fixed the rate of establishment
of technicums at five per year, which would require an additional 450 teachers
per year, including about 280 technical/workshop teachers. ENSEP, Oran (Ecole
Normale Supérieure de l'Enseignement Polytechnique), the existing technical
teacher training college for technicums/technical lycées, has a capacity
equivalent to about 1,100 places and provides training for grades 13-15
students in mechanics, electricity and electronics; with some conversion and
supplementary equipment and an additional 100 places in civil engineering,
this college (in conjunction with the University system) could supply suffi-
cient teachers in the required fields in the medium term.
Educational Finance
1.25      Total enrollments are estimated to increase at 4% yearly, from 3.5
million in 1976/77 to 5.7 million in 1989/90. To finance this expansion, an
average annual increase of over 6% (real terms) in total public expenditure
on education, amounting to about 8.1% of projected GDP in 1990, will be
required 1/. This level of expenditure, though relatively high, is in line
with Algeria's past efforts in education; total public expenditure on educa-
*        tion was 8.7% and 9.0% of GDP in 1973 and 1977, respectively.  Barring unfore-
seen events in the energy sector, the Algerian economy seems capable of
meeting this level of fairly rapid development of the education and training
system; however, administrative shortcomings and lack of capacity in the
construction industry could prove to be serious obstacles. There is need,
also, to curtail the growth of recurrent costs through improved efficiency
and reduction of boarding and scholarship costs. In addition, efforts should
be increased to standardize design and constr-ction and to improve school
location planning in order to reduce or stabilize construction costs per
student place.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.26      The Algerian education and training system is expected to play a key
role in implementing the country's development strategy by: (a) fostering
Arab/Algerian cultural values while supporting rapid economic growth, and (b)
-        responding quickly to the demand for skilled manpower generated by industrial-
ization and development of the economy. Bank lending in education in Algeria
thus far has placed main ^-mLphasis on development and reform of technical edu-
cation so as to assist the government in meeting urgent manpower needs to fill
key management and high level technical posts, and to supply much needed
1/   Assuming an average real growth rate of GDP of 6% per year, 1977-1990.
Total recurrent costs on education in 1990 would be about 6.7% of GDP.
.



- 10 -
middle level technicians and skilled workers; shortages in these areas are
causing major bottlenecks in almost all sectors with a resultant deleterious
effect on economic and social development.  Thus, three Bank-financed projects
-- Loans 913-AL (1973), 1209-AL (1976) and 1378-AL (1977) -- of US$6.0, 47.0
and 48.5 million, respectively, support the education system in meeting this
problem. In the first project, equipment and expansion are being provided for
existing technological institutes supplying technicians for critical indus-
tries (plastics, gas, mining, metallurgy and agriculture); the second project
is supporting the establishment of the National Institute for Electricity and
Electronics (INELEC) for training of engineers and higher technicians and
provides a wide-ranging program of technical assistance; the third project is
designed to assist the government in developing a new network of thirty tech-
nicums (fifteen Bank-financed) for the supply of much needed middle-level
technicians, and expansion of the network of vocational training centers for
skilled craftsmen through financing two pilot training centers.
1.27      Implementation problems have been experienced with the first educa-
tion project, which is over two years behind schedule, due to changes in
ministries' responsibilities and lack of expertise in Bank procedures, and
especially to the diffuse nature of the Institute of Agricultural Technology
element because of site acquisition problems for 100 widely dispersed rural
field units and difficulty in receiving bids in mid-1977 for their construc-
tion. However, the Government has now agreed on a series of actions to
expedite implementation of this project. Implementation of the second project
is progressing satisfactorily and has started well for the third project which
became effective on October 5, 1977.
1.28      In addition to INELEC-related technical assistance, the second
education project contains an important program of technical assistance for             e
improvement of educational administration, development and reform of primary
and secondary education and literacy training, improved planning of vocational
training, and support for ongoing reform of higher education in the fields of
educational management and teaching technologies.
1.29      The proposed fourth education project would continue to reinforce
technical education as a priority, so as to supply urgent manpower needs for
mechanical engineers, vocational instructors and technical teachers, because
shortages still exist in these critical areas which could seriously undermine
economic and social development. However, following this series of heavy
investments in technical manpower, emphasis is likely to be shifted in future
lending towards rural training/adult education; a feasibility study on the
development of a national institute and network of training centers for rural
maintenance trades (artisanat) included in the proposed project might form the
basis of a subsequent Bank-financed project. Additionally, as a follow-up to
the technical assistance program in the second project, further strengthening
of the formal education system (including post-secondary education) may be
considered in the areas of teacher training, expansion/reorganization of the
system and improvement of efficiency and quality.
.b



- il -
qu                                        II.  THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the Algerian government follow-
ing exploratory talks with a Bank pre-preparation mission in December 1976
and a preparation/assistance mission in March/April, 1977. The project (Loan
amount US$90.0 million) was appraised by Messrs. J. McCabe (educational
planner, mission leader), W. Rees (economist, deputy leader), A. Andonyadis
(architect), and J.C. Jones (technical education consultant), during October
3-27, 1977; Mr. B.R. Teare (engineering education consultant) joined the
mission during October 10-24.  All the items requested by the government for
appraisal are included, with the exception of a new technical teacher training
college and a second tranche of fifteen technicums (to follow the first tranche
of fifteen technicums financed by the Bank in the third education project).
The mission found that recent programming of the technicum network by the
Algerian authorities had included a delay of one year as well as reduction in
the rate of implementation from ten technicums per year to a more realistic
five per year. Consequently, financing was not considered justified for a new
technical teacher training college or a second tranche of fifteen technicums.
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The project is designed to assist in the supply of urgently needed
engineers and higher technicians in mechanical engineering (para. 1.23), work-
shop instructors for the national network of vocational training centers, and
technical/workshop teachers for the civil engineering technology sections of
the technicums (para. 1.24). The project institutions would be located in
regional growth centers in line with the government's policy of regional
development and to assist reduction of regional inequalities, dispersal of
technical training opportunities and local industrial development (Map No.
13246). The project would comprise:



- 12 -
(a) architectural design, construction, furniture and equipment
for:
Estimated   Estimated
New      Annual       Annual
Institutions                      Grades   Places    Intake        Output
National Institute of
Mechanical Engineering
(Engineers)                      13-17    1,200       240         225
National Institute of
Mechanical Engineering
(Higher technicians)             13-14    1,200      600          550
Institute for Vocational
Instructor Training              12-13    1,000       500         450
Conversion and expansion
of the Technical Teacher
Training College (ENSEP,
extension) 1!                    13-15       100      400          375
(b) technical assistance related to above (62 man/years of experts
and 128 man/years of fellowships);
(c)  technical assistance for studies (7 1/2 man/years):
(i)  development of a national institute and network of
training centers for rural maintenance trades (artisanat);
(ii)  development of a system of distance learning; 2/ and
(iii)  development of a national institute for pedagogical research
on vocational training.
National Institute of Mechanical Engineering (MOHI)
(a) Engineers
2.03      A five-year training course would be offered in the National Insti-
tute of Mechanical Engineering for engineers (NIME) to be located at a site
1/   With conversion and supplementary equipment, some 700 of the existing
1,100 places in ENSEP would be suitable for training of technical work-
shop teachers; of 375 annual output, 250 would be technical/workshop
teachers.
2/   Concerned mainly with radio and television courses for vocational
training.



- 13 -
consideree suitable in Setif 1/, an agricultural and industrial development
le      center of growing importance.  Admission would be based upon an examination to
be given to baccalaureates who have demonstrated a high degree of competence
in mathematics. About 5% of the total enrollment would be women with future
increases as input potential increases. Ar.nual output from NIME would, to-
gether with anticipated university output, meet estimated manpower require-
ments for mechanical engineers within the period 1977-1990. Hostel accommoda-
tion for 1,200 students would be financed under the Loan. A nucleus for NIME
(250 engineering students) which was developed since 1975 with the assistance
of the French Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique and is functioning in
temporary accommodation at Boumerdes, would be phased out and incorporated
into the new institute.
2.04      The course would be completed in ten semesters of sixteen weeks
each, with a thirty-six hour week. The government decided to adopt the course
proposed in a French study supplemented by certain specialisms a&sociated with
management from a U.S. study. 2/ The course includes ten groups (classes):
two each in workshop technology and metal construction, and one each in power,
maintenance, industrial metallurgy, industrial engineering, industrial manage-
ment and plant engineering. The combination provides a complete and accept-
able program.
(b) Higher Technicians
2.05      The National Institute of Mechanical Engineering for higher techni-
cians (NIMET) to be located at an acceptable site in Tiaret 3/, an industrial
growth center, would offer a two-year training course for baccalaureat-level
la     students, and would replace the existing four-year course that recruits grade
10 students. The existing course in temporary accommodation in Boumerdes for
250 students (developed in conjunction with the engineers' training course,
para. 2.03) would be phased out as NIMET becomes fully operational. About ,%
of the total enrollment would be women with future increases as input poten-
tial increases.  Annual output from NIMET would, together with anticipated
university output, meet requirements for mechanical engineering higher techni-
cians within the period 1977-1990. Hostel accommodation for 1,200 students
would be financed under the Loan.
1/   In close proximity to the site selected for the Jniversity of Setif; it
is expected that NIME facilities will be used to the extent possible by
the university students.
2/   The programs decided upon by the government include all disciplines in
the French study, with 7 and 20 groups for engineers and technicians,
respectively, and some complementary disciplines from the U.S. study
with 3 groups for engineers (in industrial engineering, industrial man-
agement, plant engineering) and 5 for technicians (in plant technology
and manufacturing technology).
3/   In close proximity of the site selected for the University of Tiaret; it
is expected that NIMET facilities will also be used to the extent pos-
sible by the university students.



- 14 -
2.06      The course would comprise four semesters of sixteen weeks each, with
a thirty-two hour week. The program of study would also comprise a combina-
tion of the proposals made in the French and U.S. studies (as for engineers,               e
para. 2.04) and would include twenty-five groups (classes): eight in workshop
technology, four in industrial design, three in metal construction, two in
automation, one each in foundry, forge work and metallurgy, three in plant
technology and two in manufacturing technology. The combination provides a
complete and acceptable program.
2.07      Arabic will, in due course, be the medium of instruction for NIME
and NIMET, but initially, French would constitute the main language with a
number of programs in English. 1/ Curricula and syllabi for both institutes
are of a high standard; they are strongly oriented towards industry and
emphasize problem-solving with a good balance between theory and practice.
Successful students would obtain state diplomas (Diplâme d'Etat) for engineers
and higher technicians, respectively. The institutes would act as centers of
applied research and re-training appropriate to solution of real development
problems of Algerian industry.
2.08      When fully operational, some 120 faculty each will be required for
NIME and NIMET. There must be a strong reliance on expatriates (mainly
French) in the early stages and 14 and 12 man/years of technical assistance
for experts, and 27 and 41 man/years of fellowship training for replacement
at NIME and NIMET, respectively, are included in the project. The present
Director at Boumerdes would act as Director for both institutes during the
pre-construction stage. It is essential that the institutes maintain a
close liaison with the industries concerned to take account continuously of
Algerian industrial development and current problems; the government has
provided an assurance that existing advisory councils would have strong
representation from the industries benefiting from the training provided
at the two institutes, and that views would be exchanged annually with the
Bank concerning the recommendations of the councils.
Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (MOL)
2.09      The Institute for Vocational Instructor Training (IVIT) would, in
accordance with the government's regional development policy, be located at
Annaba, a city experiencing rapid growth of modern industry, including the
national enterprises SNS and SN-Metal. 2/ A two-year course would be offered
to trainees having ten years schooling, followed by one year in a vocational
training center, and two further years' experience either in industry or in a
vocational training center. Training would be provided in construction and
civil engineering, heating and air-conditioning, electricity, manufacturing
technology, metal construction, motor engineering, industrial chemistry, and
printing. About 10% of the enrollment would be women with future increases as
1/   The programs from the U.S. study would be taught in English.
2/   SNS:  Societ£ Nationale de Sidérurgie, National Steel Corporation;
SN-Metal: Societé Nationale de Métallurgie, National Metallurgy
Corporation.



- 15 -
input potential increases. Hostel accommodation would be provided by the gov-
ernment for some 80% of trainees.
2.10      The programs of study would consist of four semesters of twenty-one
weeks each, with a thirty-five hour week. Curricula and syllabi have been
prepared in a preinvestment study (financed in Loan 1209-AL) by a consultant
agency from the Federal Republic of Germany, in cooperation with the various
government agencies concerned. Following discussions with the Bank mission,
the programs of study have been revised by the Algerian authorities to provide
a two-year course (rather than three years as originally suggested); this
revision has been incorporated in educational and architectural working papers
constituting an architect's brief and the government has given an assurance
that architectural designs for the construction of IVIT would be prepared on
the basis of these documents. The revised course would be appropriate to the
needs of vocational training centers and developing Algerian industry. Train-
ing visits would be made to local industry and vocational training centers.
The proposed distribution between pedagogical and technical/practical training
of about 17% and 83%, respectively, is acceptable. Successful trainees would
qualify as vocational training instructors with the award of a state diploma
(Dipltme de l'Etat), and the CAPE (Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle a
l'Enseignement).
2.11      When in full operation, IVIT will require about 105 technical
teachers and workshop instructors. In the initial stages, there must be a
considerable dependence on expatriate staff; accordingly, 21 man/years of
technical assistance for experts and 44 man/years for fellowship training for
their replacement are included in the project.  For effective development of
IVIT an appropriately qualified "Chef de Projet" responsible for this Insti-
tute has been appointed. As close liaison with industry is important, the
government has provided an assurance that the existing advisory council would
have strong representation from the economic sectors benefiting from the
training provided at IVIT, and that views would be exchanged annually with the
Bank concerning the recommendations of this council.
Technical Teacher Training College (MOHE)
2.12      The technical teacher training college at Oran, ENSEP, has about
1,100 places; 340 student-teachers were enrolled in 1976/77 (100 technical/
workshop trainees and 240 science). 1/ The present buildings were opened in
1973 as a training college for technical lycée teachers when a large expansion
of this form of education was expected. This expansion has not materialized
and it is now the government's policy to establish a network of technicums
*        (para. 1.24)--a job-oriented upper secondary institution having a wider range
of technical disciplines. To enable ENSEP to train technical/workshop teachers
for the technicums, some conversion and an extension of about 100 places to
add civil engineering courses are required. The conversion would consist of
1/   Remaining places are at present being utilized by Oran University
students who will shortly move to newly constructed university accom-
modation, as the government has committed ENSEP totally to teacher
training.



- 16 -
subdivision of a large workshop area (about 2,000 m2) into individual workshops
and laboratories where supplementary equipment would be installed; the exten-
sion would comprise workshop/classrooms and social facilities for students.
A full three-year course would be offered to selected baccalaureates coming
from technicums/technical lycées; a fourth probationary year would be spent on
teaching assignment under supervision from ENSEP with periodical return (about
six weeks' equivalent) to ENSEP. Training would be provided for technical/
workshop teachers in four disciplines: mechanics, electricity, electronics
and civil engineering. After the college has been expanded to provide for
100 additional student places, enrollment of trainees for technical/workshop
courses would be 800 (including about 10% women to be increased as enrollment
potential permits); the remaining 400 places would be mainly for trainee
science teachers. Hostel accommodation would be provided by the government
for almost all students.
2.13      Training would be completed in six semesters of sixteen weeks each,
with a thirty-five hour week, and graduates would receive the diploma CAPET
(Certificat d'Aptitude Professionelle a l'Enseignement Technique) and qualify
as technical/workshop teachers with the award of a "Licence d'Enseignement".
As curricula and syllabi for the technicums are tailored to job needs in
Algerian industry, it is essential that pedagogical training programs for
technicum teachers should be reoriented to training requirements for indus-
try.  A pedagogical training program adapted to the needs of technicuns, and
projections of technicum teacher trainee enrollments 1978/79 to 1984/85 at
ENSEP have been prepared by an MOE/MOHE working party. The government has
given an assurance that this program would be implemented and that all neces-
sary measures would be taken to ensure the required collaboration between the
MOE and the MOHE for this purpose. Recruitment of sufficient suitable trainees
at ENSEP has proved difficult because of lack of competitiveness with careers
in the major industries, and the government indicated that improvements are
being made and gave an assurance that it would inform the Bank regularly on
improvements in employment conditions for trainees and graduate teachers of
ENSEP.
2.14      A staff of about 100 will be required for the technical/workshop
element in ENSEP when fully operational, with a reliance initially on expa-
triates. Accordingly, the project includes 13 man/years of technical assis-
tance for experts and 13 man/years of fellowship training for their replace-
ment. As close liaison with the economic sectors benefiting from the training
provided is desirable for guidance to management on the orientation and
development of ENSEP, the government has given an assurance that the existing
advisory council would have strong representation from among these interests,
and that views would be exchanged annually with the Bank on the recommendations
of this council.
Evaluation System
2.15      A system of continuous evaluation replacing the traditional type
examination would be developed and followed in NIME, NIMET, IVIT and ENSEP.
The system would include a tracer system to assist in the fields of educa-
tional guidance, vocational orientation and career evaluation and should prove



- 17 -
important especially for realistie curriculum development.  The government
has provided an assurance that information on this system would be exchanged
with the Bank sufficiently in advance of the opening of the new institutes
and the ENSEP extension to permit Bank review and comments and that results
of the tracer studies would periodically, for five years following first out-
puts from the project institutions, be transmitted to the Bank, as required
for project evaluation.
Technical Assistance
2.16      A program of 60 man/years of technical assistance would be provided
under the project principally to enable the project institutions to begin
operations with key expatriate staff while Algerians would be completing their
training abroad to replace them. The distribution of the technical assistance
posts among the project institutions is shown in Annex 1, Table 2.1. As an
exception from the above, two man/years of technical assistance would be
included in the project for the Ministry of Education for recruitment of spe-
cialist(s) in planning and administration (with emphasis on teacher training).
Improved planning procedures are necessary to control effectively the rapid
expansion of the education system.
2.17      To enable replacement of the above consultants, a program of 128
man/years of technical assistance for fellowship training of suitable Algerian
candidates is also included in the project. Selected fellows would be trained
abroad sufficiently in advance of the opening of their respective institutions
so that their return would coincide with the arrival of the expatriate spe-
cialists.  This would enable them to work with the expatriates and acquire
further experience as counterparts in the installation of equipment and in
the preparation and execution of teaching programs. The proposed allocation
of fellowships for the various project instituti.ons and the MOE is listed in
Annex 1, Table 2.1. The consultants for ENSEP are expected to visit ENSEP two
or three times yearly for short periods (about one month) to train selected
fellows in the specialisms concerned, to gain familiarity with the aims and
facilities of the institute; at their own institutes, the consultants would be
responsible for the Algerian trainees sent to them for follow-up training.
2.18      90 man/months of technical assistance would be piovided in the
project for the preparation of three studies. 50 man/months would be included
for a feasibility study on the development of a national institute and network
of training centers for rural maintenance trades (artisanat, MOLI). A further
25 man/months would be included for study on the development of a system of
distance learning concerned mainly with radio and television courses for voca-
tional training (MOL); for this study the government has provided an assurance
that an inter-ministerial consultation between MOL, MOE, MOLI would be under-
taken to monitor progress and avoid duplication between these ministries. 15
man/months would be available for study on the development of a national
institute for pedagogical research on vocational training (MOL), with partic-
ular emphasis on curriculum development and on an evaluation system (including
tracer studies) for IVIT and vocational training centers, as well as liaison
between these institutions and the work-place. The government has also
.



- 18 -
provided an assurance that the terms of reference for all three studies would
be forwarded for review sufficiently in advance of their commencement to
permit Bank comments thereon.  The findings of the first two studies above, if              e
positive, might form the basis of a subsequent Bank-financed education project.
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01       Summary of Project Cost.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at DA 609.3 million or US$150.5 million equivalent. The estimated total cost
and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:
% of
DA Millions             US$ Millions        Baseline
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total    Cost
National Institute of
Mechanical Engineering
(NIME), Setif               55.2   94.8   150.0   13.6   23.4    37.0    35.1
National Institute of
Mechanical Engineering
(NIMET), Tiaret             60.9  107.2   168.1   15.0   26.5    41.5    39.3
Institute for Vocational                                                                    C
Teacher Training
(IVIT), Annaba              37.5   32.4    69.9    9.3    8.0    17.3    16.3
Technical Teacher Training
College (ENSEP), Oran        7.7    8.1    15.8    1.9    2.0         3.9      3.7
Tèchnical assistance            4.8   18.9    23.7    1.2    4.7        5.9      5.6
Baseline cost              166.1  261.4   427.5   41.0   64.6   105.6   100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                    16.4   25.2    41.6    4.1    6.2    10.3          9.7
Price increase              62.6   77.6   140.2   15.4   19.2    34.6    32.8
Subtotal                 79.0  102.8   181.8   19.5   25.4    44.9    42.5
Total project cost           245.1  364.2   609.3   60.5   90.0   150.5
.   _  =~ ~



- 19 -
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
DA Millions            US$ Millions         Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Construction:
Academic & communal
facilities            80.6    64.5   145.1   19.9    15.9    35.8    33.9
Boarding                26.2    28.4    54.6    6.5        7.0    13.5    12.8
Staff housing            2.6      2.2      4.8    0.6      0.6      1.2     1.1
Site development        21.3    18.8    40.1    5.2        4.7      9.9     9.4
Professional services   5.8    13.5    19.3    1.5         3.3      4.8     4.5
Subtotal            136.5   127.4   263.9   33.7    31.5    65.2    61.7
Furniture                   6.7    12.4    19.1    1.6       3.1      4.7     4.5
Equipment                  18.1   102.7   120.8    4.5    25.3    29.8    28.2
Subtotal             24.8   115.1   139.9    6.1    28.4    34.5    32.7
Technical assistance       4.8    18.9    23.7    1.2        4.7      5.9     5.6
Baseline cost       166.1   261.4   427.5   41.0    64.6   105.6   100.0
Contingencies             79.0   102.8   181.8   19.5    25.4    44.9    42.5
Total project cost 245.1   364.2   609.3   60.5    90.0   150.5
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Costs exclude any identifiable import
duties. Estimated civil work costs for the proposed project are based on unit
prices derived from current contracts and detailed estimates of other projects
of similar character. Furniture and equipment costs are based on current CIF
unit prices and adjusted upward to include local transportation and installa-
tion. Costs of the technical assistance components are based on prevailing
international remuneration of specialists and cost of fellowship training
abroad. Instructional equipment costs per student for NIME and NIMET, averag-
ing US$7,470 are high, but are justifiable. These unit costs are not compar-
able with previous Bank-financed technical universities or technical institutes
because (a) consistent with the Algerian system of post-secondary technical
education, the project institutes are not multi-disciplinary but consist only
of mechanical engineering, the most expensive discipline in terms of equipment
costs; and (b) Algeria's policy of training to produce job-ready graduates in
a wide range of specialisms by emphasizing practical work oriented towards
production has resulted in higher equipment costs. In Algeria's highly auto-
mated state enterprises where graduates will be employed, the opportunity cost
(production time and output) of on-the-job training in mechanical engineering
e



- 20 -
for students and graduates is greater than the cost of training job-ready
graduates in the institutes.  To prepare such graduates, it is necessary to
equip the project institutions with additional sophisticated and expensive
production-type equipment. For example, the manufacturing (fabrication) shop
accounts for 33% of the total equipment cost of NIME. It is the largest of
six shops and will be used extensively in the common core and in most of the
specialty programs. The manufacturing shop accounts for 53% of the total
equipment cost of NIMET. It is also the largest of the shops and will be
extensively used. Baseline cost estimates have been adjusted to reflect the
anticipated prices at April 1, 1978.
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated
cost of civil works, furniture and equipment and consultant architects' fees
and 5% of the estimated cost of technical assistance. The project cost also
includes price escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning
April 1, 1978 and in accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation.
In view of differences in prevailing rates of price escalation for local costs
and international market prices, escalation contingencies were estimated sepa-
rately for local and foreign costs. 1/ Prices are expected to increase during
the project implementation period by a weighted total of about 36% for civil
works, 29% for furniture, 27% for equipment, 28% for consultant architects'
fees and 34% for technical assistance. Accordingly, total price increases are
estimated at about 33% of baseline cost.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent is US$90.0 million equivalent or about 60% of the total project cost.
The calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the expecta-               e
tion that (a) two-thirds of civil works and almost all of the professional
services will be awarded to foreign or mixed firms, (b) all equipment will be
directly imported, and (c) about one-half of the furniture will be awarded to
foreign suppliers. The resulting foreign exchange content of each category
of expenditure is as follows: (i) civil works, 44%; (ii) furniture, 65%;
(iii) equipment, 85%; (iv) consultant architects' fees, 70%; and (v) technical
assistance, 80%.
1/   Price escalation computed on basis of following annual percentage
increases:
1977    1978    1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
L  F    L  F    L  F    L  F   L  F   L  F   L  F   L  F
Civil works      10  9   12  9   10  9    9  8   8  8   8  8
Furniture and
equipment       10  7.5 12  7.5 10  7.5  9  7   8  7   7  7
Professional
services        10  9   12  9   10  9    9  8   7  7   7  7
Technical
assistance       7  7    7  7    7  7    7  7   7  7   7  7   7  7   7  7



- 21 -
Project Financing
*       3.06       The proposed loan of US$90.0 million would finance 100% of the total
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of total project
costs would be financed by the government with some likely assistance from the
French Caisse Centrale Economique de Coopération. The proposed financial plan
is summarized below:
Government            IBRD                Total
US$      % of      US$       % of        US$    % of
million financing  million financing  million  total
Construction                  32.2       53      28.2       47         60.4   40.2
Furniture                      1.6       35       3.1       65          4.7    3.1
Equipment                      4.5       15      25.3       85         29.8   19.8
Consultant architects          1.5       30       3.3       70          4.8    3.2
Technical assistance           1.2       20       4.7       80          5.9    3.9
Baseline cost               41.0      39       64.6       61        105.6   70.2
Contingencies:
Physical                     4.1      40        6.2       60         10.3    6.8
Price increase              15.4      45       19.2       55         34.6   23.0
Total contingencies           19.5       43      25.4       57         44.9   29.8
Total project cost          60.5      40       90.0       60        150.5  100.0
Recurrent Costs
3.07      When fully operational the project institutions are estimated to
require about DA 25.6 million annually in recurrent costs, corresponding to
about 0.4% of projected public recurrent expenditure on education in 1985.
Implementation
3.08      According to the implementation schedules (Annex 1, Chart 2) for the
respective institutions of the Ministries of Labor, Heavy Industry, and Higher
Education, the physical aspects of all project items would be completed by
December 1982 while the technical assistance component would continue until
October 1984. In order to allow sufficient time for submission of the final
withdrawal applications for the last parts of the technical assistance, the
Closing Date would be December 31, 1984. Bank involvement at this stage of
the project is justifiable as implementation of technical assistance programs
and equipment procurement is required as soon as possible for NIME and NIMET,
already operating in temporary accommodation, as well as for ENSEP, Oran.
In addition, early implementation of the preinvestment studies included is
required, as the government plans investment in project elements to be identi-
fied by these studies. Furthermore, the Bank's involvement in the project at
this stage facilitates the employment of the required foreign consultants to
*      prepare architectural designs for these highly specialized institutes.



- 22 -
3.09      Administration.  The government has agreed that the respective
directorates of the Ministries concerned will be responsible for the imple-
mentation of their Ministry's project items while the Project Liaison Officer
appointed for the three previous Bank education projects would also provide
liaison between the Ministries concerned and the Bank for the proposed fourth
project.  Responsibility for implementation of each project item would be
assigned as follows:
(a)  NIME and NIMET.  The Director General of the Institute of
Mechanical Engineering would be responsible for the imple-
mentation of these elements under the authority of the
Directorate of Training of the Ministry of Heavy Industry.
Educational and architectural consultants have been engaged to
assist in the execution of educational aspects and procurement
of equipment and the preparation of architectural designs,
respectively. The Director also would be responsible for
assuring completion of site acquisition procedures and topo-
surveys and awarding of civil works contracts and furniture
and equipment contracts;
(b) IVIT. The Directorate of Vocational Training in the Ministry
of Labor would, through its Director, be responsible for imple-
mentation of this element; this directorate would retain direct
responsibility for pedagogical aspects, technical assistance
(including two pre-investment studies) and procurement of
furniture/equipment; it would assure completion of site acqui-
sition procedures and toposurveys; the government has given an
assurance that it would contract by July 31, 1978 with BEREC
(Bureau d'Etudes et de Recherches d'Engineering et de Construc-
tion) of the Ministry of Housing and Construction to prepare
architectural designs and bid documents for the construction of
IVIT, as well as supervision of implementation of the building
of this institute;
(c) ENSEP. The Directorate of Planning of the Ministry of Higher
Education would, through its Director, be responsible for
implementation of this element and would collaborate closely
with the Directorate of Equipment and Infrastructure of MOHE
and with the Director of ENSEP in this regard. The MOHE/MOE
working group would facilitate the coordination on educa-
tional aspects between the two Ministries; and
(d) The Directorate for the Artisanat of the Ministry of Light
Industry would, through its Director, be responsible for im-
plementation of the pre-investment study of the artisanat.
The ministries and agencies concerned in the implementation of the proposed
project are considered to be sufficiently experienced in selecting and brief-
ing design architects, awarding civil works and in supervising the execution
of the project.
.



- 23 -
3.10      Educational and architectural consultants have been appointed on
terms agreeable to the Bank, and briefs for construction of NIME, NIMET and
conversion/extension of ENSEP have been prepared to permit initiation of
architectural designs. Educational and architectural working papers agreed
with the Bank (para 2.10) would constitute the brief for architectural designs
to be prepared by BEREC (para 3.09) for the construction of IVIT. Due to the
nature of the project institutions and the shortage of local architectural
consulting firms, foreign firms have been appointed to provide complete
architectural/engineering services for design and periodic supervision of
civil works for NIME and NIMET.
3.11      Bank Review and Approvals.  Preparation of preliminary equipment
lists is well under way. Because equipment is very sophisticated and costly,
the government has provided an assurance that they would arrange to include
in the bidding documents a requirement that suppliers would provide initial
training of key personnel at installation time in the use and maintenance of
sophisticated equipment. Furthermore, the government has provided an assur-
ance that an appropriate plan for equipment maintenance would be prepared for
NIME, NIMET, IVIT and ENSEP and forwarded for Bank review within one year of
opening of these institutions.
3.12      Sites.  Suitable sites for the new project institutions have been
officially allocated and topographical surveys have been started. The govern-
ment has agreed that receipt by the Bank of: (a) surveys of existing ser-
vice facilities and of the need for addi.tional site work and (b) preliminary
site plans and schematic architectural designs for NIME, NIMET, IVIT and the
ENSEP extension would be conditions of Loan effectiveness.
3.13      Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to US$88.3 million
including contingencies), with the exception of those for ENSEP, would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts for
ENSEP comprising extension and conversion (about US$2.2 and 0.8 million,
respectively) would be awarded on the basis of normal government procedures
for local bidding which are satisfactory to the Bank. It is anticipated that,
due to overcommitment of the national construction companies, foreign firms
probably would be awarded up to two-thirds of the project civil works con-
tracts. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to US$47.5 million including
contingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of
US$50,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small items or groups of
items estimated to cost less than the above figure or items of specialized
nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured under normal
government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank and would include,
to the extent possible, quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers; these items would not exceed an aggregate total of US$5.0 million.
Draft tender and contract documents for furniture/equipment and civil works
would, on completion, be forwarded for Bank review and approval; Bank approval
of tender evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of all
contracts for furniture and equipment under ICB, and for civil works contracts
exceeding US$1.0 million equivalent. Bank reimbursement for all other con-
tracts would be contingent upon Bank approval of tender evaluation documents
subsequent to contract awards.



- 24 -
3.14      Disbursements.  Disbursements (Annex 1, Table 3.3) would be on the
basis of:                                                                                    S
(i) civil works: 44% of total expenditure;
(ii) furniture and equipment: (a) 100% of foreign expenditure for
directly imported items, (b) 85% of total expenditure for
locally procured imported items, and (c) 45% of total expendi-
ture for locally manufactured items;
(iii)  professional services:  100% of foreign expenditure and 30% of
total cost of local professional services; and
(iv) techniAal assistance: 100% of foreign expenditure.
These percentages, which correspond to the estimated foreign exchange content
of each catc5ory above, would be adjusted if required to assure continued
financing from the available Loan funds, of expenditures for each category
and for the period of implementation.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01      The main benefits expected to accrue from implementation of this
project are as follows:                                                                    e
(i)  supply of an annual output of about 225 mechanical engineers,
550 higher technicians in mechanical engineering, 450 voca-
tional training instructors and 220 technical/workshop
teachers to help meet urgent manpower needs (paras. 1.21,
1.22, 1.23, 1.24), and assist replacement of expatriate
specialists, thus supporting the government's policy of
rapid industrialization, industrial diversification and
technological progress;
(ii) reduction of regional inequalities, dispersal of technical
training opportunities and support for local industrial
development, through location of NIME, NIMET and IVIT in
separate wilayate, in line with government's policy of
regional development (para 2.02);
(ii{)  establishment of applied research and re-training centers
in mechanical engineering at NIME and NIMET, appropriate
to the solution of real development problems of Algerian
industry (para. 2.07);
.



- 25 -
(iv)  addition of training in civil engineering and provision of
specialized supplementary equipment at ENSEP, the existing
technical teacher training college, to enable reorientation
and broadening of the present pedagogical training program
to render it appropriate to the needs of the network of
technicums being established (paras. 2.12, 2.13);
(v)  launching of national institutes of vocational instructor
training, mechanical engineering and technicum teacher
training having high-level, modern standards on administra-
tive, technical and pedagogical aspects (para. 2.16); and
(vi)  contribution to improved educational planning and administra-
tion through provision of a program of technical assistance
to undertake a feasibility study on development of rural
maintenance trades, and two studies concerning distance
learning and pedagogical research in vocational training
(para. 2.18).
Risks
4.02      The government's decision to follow programs of study in NIME and
NIMET, comprising combinations of proposals made in two preinvestment studies
prepared by French and U.S. consortia, will make implementation more difficult
because of the need for two languages of instruction and two teams of expa-
triate specialists, francophone and anglophone.  Good leadership will be
*      required to minimize the consequent difficulties of coordination and communi-
cation. Very close liaison of these institutes with industry would ensure
retention of a healthy realism; because of the government's policy of trans-
ferring post-secondary technological institutes in due course, to the univer-
sity system under the authority of the MOHE, the danger of loss of this
realism in that situation must be avoided to the extent possible. Instruc-
tional equipment for NIME and NIMET is very sophisticated and costly and it
will be necessary accordingly, to ensure that it is well maintained and that
the highest level of utilization possible is achieved.
4.03      The technicum is a new type upper secondary, vocationally oriented
institution with which Algeria has little previous experience. Curricula and
syllabi for the technicums are tailored to the functional contents of middle-
level technician jobs in Algerian industry; it is essential that the pedago-
gical training programs for technicum teachers are conceived and imparted in
ENSEP with an emphasis on these aspects. In addition, recruitment of suffi-
cient suitable trainees at ENSEP may continue to be problematic unless the
government takes steps at an early stage to improve salary and working condi-
tions for both trainees and graduate-teachers to render them competitive with
those in effect in the major industries (para. 2.13).
4.04      The program of technical assistance proposed in the project is very
large (paras. 2.16-2.18) and will require efficient management to ensure timely
recruitment of adequate specialists, good selection and placement of fellow-
ship trainees, as well as appropriate synchronization of this training with
.



- 26 -
recruitment of specialists; close monitoring of the technical assistance
program will be necessary.                                                              O
4.05      In general, shortcomings in administration at central, regional and
institutional levels, required to coordinate educational and architectural
aspects, are such in Algeria that delays in implementation of civil works are
possible; in addition, the very heavy building program being undertaken in
all sectors of the economy could cause delays because of lack of capacity in
the construction industry. Agreements reached and assurances given by the
government (Chapter V) are meant to mitigate all the above risks to the extent
possible.
Key Implementation Dates
4.06      The critical activities in the implementation of the project and the
expected dates of completion indicated in the following table (achievable with
the proposed project management arrangements) have been confirmed by the gov-
ernment to serve as a project implementation and monitoring basis.
NIME
NIMET             IVIT            ENSEP
Civil Works
Completion of site
acquisition-legal               May 1978         May 1978
Completion of design
development drawings            December 1978   October 1978    September 1978
Completion of final drawings    November 1979   September 1979  December 1978
Commencement of construction    April 1980         January 1980    May 1979
Completion of construction        February 1983   July 1982          April 1980
Equipment
Completion of final equipment
lists with complete
specifications                  January 1980    October 1980    October 1978
Completion of installation
of major equipment and
furniture                       May 1983         September 1982  July 1980
Technical Assistance
Submission of program for
Bank comment                    January 1979    June 1979         October 1978
Commencement of program:
Fellowship training             September 1979  June 1980         September 1979
Experts                         September 1980  June 1982         September 1979



- 27 -
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(i)  the pedagogical training program submitted for ENSEP would
be reformed to meet the needs of technicums (para 2.13)
through increasing laboratory work, introducing pedagogy in
the first year, and providing for short training courses at
ENSEP in the fourth year; polyvalent teachers would be trained
and trainees would have a minimum of eight hours weekly work-
shop training during the three-year course;
(ii)  the Ministry of Labor would contract by July 31, 1978, with
BEREC of the Ministry of Housing and Construction to prepare
architectural designs and bidding documents for IVIT on the
basis of the pedagogical training program, space norms and
costs, and estimated cost of equipment defined in the educa-
tional and architectural worksheets agreed between the Bank
and the Algerian delegation on May 12, 1978, and to supervise
implementation of the building of the institute (paras 2.10
and 3.09);
(iii)  advisory councils at the project institutes would have strong
representation from the economic sectors benefiting from the
training provided and views would be exchanged annually with
es                 the Bank on the recommendations of these councils (paras 2.08,
2.11 and 2.14);
(iv)  an evaluation system, including a tracer system for analysis
of job placement and performance, would be developed for the
project institutions and forwarded for Bank review sufficiently
in advance of opening of these institutes to permit Bank com-
ments thereon; the results of the tracer studies would be
transmitted to the Bank periodically over five years following
first outputs from the project institutions (para 2.15);
(v)  inter-ministerial consultation between MOL, MOE and MOLI would
be undertaken to monitor progress on the MOL study on the
development of distance learning, and terms of reference for
the three studies included in the project (development of
maintenance trades, development of distance learning and
pedagogical research on vocational training) would be for-
warded sufficiently in advance of scheduled dates of their
commencement to permit timely recruitment of consultants
(para 2.18); and
(vi)  bid documents would specify that equipment suppliers would
be required to provide initial training of key personnel at
installation time in the use and maintenance of sophisticated
.



- 28 -
equipment; an appropriate equipment maintenance plan would be
prepared for NIME, NIMET, IVIT and ENSEP and forwarded for
Bank review within one year of opening of these institutes
(para 3.11).
5.02      Receipt of the following would constitute conditions of Loan effec-
tiveness:
(i) evidence that surveys of existing facilities have been made and
that the needs for additional site and off-site work have been
identified for NIME, NIMET, IVIT and ENSEP sites; and
(ii)  preliminary site plans and schematic architectural designs for
NIME, NIMET, IVIT and the ENSEP conversion and extension (para
3.12).
5.03      The project is suitable as a basis for a Loan of US$90.0 million to
the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria for a term of seventeen years
with a grace period of four years.
e
.



ALGERIA IV
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
PRE-REFORM  SYSTEM                                                                             Middle                         General  Lycee                                Universities
Primary                                   r                                   .E              .T E.        I. T. E. 2/
C, E. T. 4/                                 Institutesnof  Technology
C. E. A. 5/Technicians
POST-REFORM  SYSTEM                                                                                                          Lycee                                           niesities
Pre-School           Fundamental Polytechnic Education                                                  Tahrring(IT.E.)
Technicum 3/                                  Institutes of Technology
NOTES:                                                                                                                                    -       {}                                      {
* Brevet D'Enseignement Moyen
&  Baccalaureat
i/ General Lycée courses include options in Arabic, Humanities, Mathematics, Sciences
2/ I. T. E.: Institut de Technologie d'Education (Teacher Training):                                                                                                E. N, S. E, p,6
categories ia) and ib) for primary teaching with one year formal training for (a) and two years for (b); 
category (ci for Middle School teachers. 
3/ Technical Lycée courses include options in lndustry, Mathematics, Commerce and Economics; Technicum: New type upper
secondary schoul with st-gn5q vocational bias being financed by the I.B.R.D. n third education project.
4/ C.E.T.: Collège d'Enseignemnent Technique (Vocational School)
5/ C.E.A.: Collège d'Enseignement Agricole iAgricultural School)
6/ E.N.S.E.P.: Ecole Normale Supérieure de J'Enseignement Polytechnique, Technical Teacher Training College, Oran                                                                                                                        rt X
*The first education prolect (Loan 913-AL, 1973) includes financing for: li) equipment of technician training centers for the
Algerian Petroleum Institute af Setif and Arzew, (il> supplementary equipment for the Institutes of Mining and Metallurgy, Annaba,
l,ii>) workshops and field units for the Institute of Agricultural Technology, Mostaganem, and (ivj technical assistance. The second
education project (Loan 1209-AL, 1976) ,ncludes financing for the construction, furnishing and equipping of new Institute of
Electricity and Electronics at Tlemcen, and a program of technical assistance. The third education project (Loan 1378-AL, 1977)
includfes financing for the construction, furnishing and equ,ppi,g of 15 technicums, 2 vocetional training centers and related technical assistance.                                                       World Bank - 16686






Annex i
COMPARATIVE EO4UCATION INDICAIORS                                            Table   1. 1
APRIL 19,1978 
G  NPI  :      GNP  :T  TOTAL.%  0F PUBLIC                                       :PMI.  :AV.PRI.                          :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTE0:PUBLIC  :EOUCATION    :1ITER-  t PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC.  :STU- :HIGHER:
* .AI        10O EDO.:   EXP.    PECURRENT    :ACY          :ENROLL:T!ON        :OENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENPOLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:0EVOTE0:.EXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO  :RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION :FROM PR!. :RATIO :PER   :RATIO0
POP. :PRICES; EXP.            fa1  :.      TOI.      :: 0F   . NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :1TO SEC.                NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:!4ILLb.: (US$J: ONLY)  :  iDU. :PRI. SEC. H!.:ADULTS>: (là  :CVCLE(K>:EP                     : CAPITA t  (13             <>   :ER         13>
AU STRI1A        71.   7. 5E 4,870E       5.35    8.5EY  24Y  51Y   15Y    99            98        930       260       2.00)      990       510)    190    16.85V
-  CANAUX            72  22.8E 6,9301         7. 7    19.4.    30    38   19        98      89        98         24        2.0        99        82       17       9.00
GFFMANY F.PEP.75  61.8  6,?O0             4.2    14.2       31EY 31EY 19EY  99           91C       99C       23EY      ...        99C       Sic    2UC    20.26Y
JAPAN            75 111.6  4,450          4.3E   20.IE   401JY 37UY 1IIUY  99            990       99C       25        2.06       99C       95XY    20C    24.69Y
NI:THtSL ANDS    74   13.7E  5,750>-      7.9Y  15.1V    32    45    19         99       95C       95C       29C       3.OC       97C        73C     20C    11.00
NEW ZOALAND    73    i.IF 4,280F          5.2    ...        39    24    29      99       99        99        26        ..         99        67       19      24.00
NORWAY           74    4.0OF  ., 760OF    7.0    15.2       48Y  22Y  13Y   99         1o2KV       98        20        1.9        99        90KV    14       21.31Y
SWEL)EIN         74    8.2F 8,150F        7.9Y  13.9Y    38Y  13Y  13Y   99             99C       99C        l7C       ...        90C       85C      lac    30.000
U.K.             72   50,0 F 3,780E       6.3    12.7       26    39    22      98       99        ...       26        2.0        ...       63       17      11.00
U.S.4.           72 213,5F- 7,120F        6.0    15.4       ...   73** 27       99       99        99        25U       2.0        ...        93      190    29.00
EUROPE
GR EECE          76    9.1  2,590         2.6    10.4       37    26    21      868     99        820        31      2.0          70E       80       27      15.00
IrIt-ANO         74    3. 1F 2,390E       5.1    13.90    43Y  41Y   14Y    98         108KV      996        35      ...          95*       65KV    19       15.47Y
PORTUGAL         75    9.6   1,570        4.4    17.3       52    27    13      70       98        55        21       3.0         70        29       14       7.60
RnMANIA          75   21.2   1.240        4.0      6.4      36    19    13      98       101K      ...       21       ...         98        49       Z2      10.00
571161           7 4  35.3E  2,750F       2.48   15.28    49Y  22Y   15Y    946    115KV           ..        35A      ...         ...       78Kv    30       17.68Y
ALGER lt         77   lt..9     9900      7.5    14.3FY  42        .   21       35       78K       45        39        4.0        55        26K      13       6.00
BENIN            74    3.11-    130E      7.2N   36.OY    410   230   100    110        44KXY      70B       53V      25.08       43B        I1Kv    398      0.74Y
R3TrSWA5A        76    0. 7     410       4.0    19.2       53    20    14       3       72X      95         32        3.0        60        12       22       0.30
BURUNDI          74    3.7F    110F       2.5    19.9Q    47R  41R  12R    10           20X        307       38       10.0        14          2K     18       1.0
CAMErOON         73    7.4E    280F       5.9    20.0       38Y  29Y  17Y    ...         74        ...       510V      .    ...               9      23CV     O9OCV
C.A.P.           74    1.8F   220F        3 .00   17.00    568   198... ..              79XY       25        69V      ...         188KV    278V    0.21Y
CHAD             75    4.0      120       3.0    10.0       78    22  ...       15       29X8V    30         658V    15.0           8         2X8V   30       0.0185
CONGn<B)          74    1.3E    510F      6.0    19.3       40    32    21      507    133X        63        63        6.0        48        33X      22       3.40
EGYPI            74  37.2F    260EF    5.3         ...      29    36    24      40      74X       45         40      ..           64        39X      28      11.00
ET R>'PII        76  28.0       100       2.8   I15.8       28    25    10       7      21       ...         50        ..         63          8      34       ..
GAB)N81             74    0.5F 2,540E        5.00   20.60    250    90   l1a              IOO100     250        46C       5.0        186       31Y      21C      0.291
GAmRIA            -      . 5    170       3. 3    11.5      46    25     6      10       27       90         33       ...         92        13       25
*    GHAINA            74    9.9E    590E       ...    19.7V    43Y  22Y  20VQ  ...           60KV      628        30V      ...         14B       35XY    16CY    1.091
GU 15FR          76   '. 7      1 801-    4.3N0 ..          30    31    30      ...      30X       64        45        12E        86         13X     26       4.00
IVORI ClîiAb     74    6.71-    5401-     6.3    24. 7      38Y   37Y  18Y       9*     86KV      57A       45Y      ...          ...       17XY    25C       1.64Y
KENYA            76  13.8       24 0      5.9    26.0       67    23    10      40       80?      60?        34        6. 0       30        16       27       1.0
LESOTHtO         75    1.2      16 0     12.OP  23.0        4,9   18    20      40       8 5       50        52        7.ON       81         10      26       1.00
LIBERIA            5    1.5     410       2.4    13.2       27    15   20       73       58        ...       35        2.0        ...       12       26       1.108V
MAOAGASCIR        7 4   8.8E    200E      3.2    22.1       51    24    25      40       68X       30        63       15.0        48          9K     26       1.00
MALAWI           76    5.2      140       2.4    10.0       42    18    23      25       56EX      17        5 2       2.4        70          4EX    20       0.260V
MALI             7 5 5. TF       90E      4.2M  33.0E    45F  37F  I8E    L0F           22XF       ...       48F      9.5E        50F         6K     21
MAURITANIA       71    1.3E    320E       4.1Y  20.OYV.......   10*                     17Kv       ...       22A       ...        ...         3KV    24*
MAURITIIS         76    0. 5,    680      4.7    12.1       "O    26    6ô      8OC      94        99        26        4.5         90       45       32       1.50
M08ICCC          74   16. 71    470E-    5.00   16.1 -           9              26?      54X       21        37        ..         31         13X     21       2.00
NIGERIA           74  75.01-    340F      4.1DV  24.20Y  23Y  16V   42Y   ...            49XY      ...       340VY      .         ...       10KV    20CY    0.48Y
RWANDA            73   4.11-    100E      3.20   28.00  ......                 23        52        ...       51        ..         ..          2      13       0.230V
SENEGAL           74    5.0E    3601-     4.0N8  22.50R  58PY 42RY ...    100            53XY      ...       46CY       .         ...       11K8    258       2. 02Y
SKIEPRA LEONE   73    3.OF   200E         3.4    23.4       31    36    30      15?      34X       45        32        4.OE       68         13X     21       0.538Y
SOMALIA          75    3.2      110       3.70   10.8Q   49Q   160   19Q    50?         34X        86        35       10.0        60         3       15       0.10
SUDAN            74  15.6E    2 70F       8.05   15.0V    43C   290   28C    15C         40KV      75C       39V       4.OC       25C       11KV    20C       1.45Y
SWAZILAND        75    0.5      470       3.8       -       38    31    19      50       73        71        38        3.8        51        24       22       1.00
TANZANIA         74   14.7F-   170F       5.1N  17.0        36    ...   12      63       44X       ...       49        ..           7         2      21C      0.30
TUNISIA          73    5.6F    730F       6.3    23.4       37    43.   18      55       72        81        41l       6.0        31 1    14         21       3.00
UGANDA           75   11.6      230       3.4CY 15.70v   34EV 40EY 22EY  25A             53KV      ...       34EY      ...        14A         6KCV   21A      0.565
UPEER VOLTA    74    6.OF    110F         4.0    23.9       59    18      9      SC      14XY      ...       46Y      18.OC       200         2KV    23C      0.151
2*18E            73  24.7F   140F         5.2CN 21.3C    54C  17C   29C    15            63        38        41CY      6.0        43          8      24       0.96BY
1ANB1A           76    5.1      440       6.8    15.9       54    22    22      39       97K      80         49        7.0        21         16      23       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA ANDO THE CAR18BEAN
COSTA RICA       75    2.0      960       5.28   22.78    578  258   128    898    109KV          65B        29B       3.08       588       52KV    258    17.15Y
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.7F    720F          3.0    13.9       42    24    22      51       80        17        54        3.00       63         13.5    24       1.00
EL SALVADOR    75    4.0        460       3.6    23.8      61      5   22      608      65C        ...       390V      ...        39        13XC    210v    4.35BV
GUATEMALA        73    6.3F .570F         1.9    16.0       5 5    23    14     47       64        26        35        3.0        69          a      25       4.091
HAI1T! 1         7    4.7       200       1.0      8.0      61    21    il      208      25F       13        56U       3.0        62          4      ...       0.7
HONDURAS         75    2.5      390G      4.26  18.8G    62G   15G  19G    53            18        30        35        3.0        68         il      17       4.00
JAMAICA          74    2.0E  1,110E       7.15   20.2Y    39Y  32Y  19Y    86           II1KV      ...       39V       ...        ...        54XY    190      6.680V
MEXICO           75  59.9   1,0 50        3.10Q 12.009   51V   26Y   12Y    76          112KV      31        46        3.0        63         35XY   23*       8.97EY
NICARAGUA        74    2.3EF   700F       2.5    14.2       A1    13    13      57       65        21        37        2.0        93         17      24       7.00
FRINI0AD & T. 76    1.00 1,875E           3.4N  10.8Q    50E   25E   13E    900           81      93         34        2.00       49        44       25         ..
SOUTHn AMEPICA
BOLIVIA          76    5. 8     315F      5.0    17.5E........   38                      178       290       24        5F          ...        48      180
BR8AZ1 L         75 107.0   1,030         5.0    12.4       42E   20E    37E  64*        860       ...       Z7CY       .          ...       26G      sv       .0
75  10.3      990       3 8RV  12 5'V   23Y  10V   50Y    ...    119KV           ...       35Y        .          ...       48XY    ...    16.55Y
08816A        74  23.6E    5801        3.30Y 21.20Y  440V  22V  11V    73            105Kv      20        33Y       4.0        90         36XY    14*A    6.67V
(JAO~R      5    7.1      590       3. 71  27.7C      ......             69      102Kv       ...       38C       .          ...       38XY    14iC
* 'ANA           74,   0.8F    510F       5.8N   14.7Q   47    35    14         83*      92K       39        33        6.0         19        62X      24      10
PARAGUAY         74    2.6E    580E       1.8    11.0       55    13    22      ai       82        26        30        1.9         65        17       12      5.00
PERU             75   15.4      760       4.2DY 21.7DY  40Y  22Y  15Y    72             111Kv      38        390V      3.0         70        48XY    230Y  14.41Y
URUGUAY          75    2.8   1,300        2.5    15.3       46    34    20      94       93X       ...       24         .          83        ...      10       ..
VENEZUELA        73   12.0E  2,280F       4.6    19.9       30Q  289  35Q    l7A         81        ...       33        2.4         .         33       ...    12.631Y



Annex i
CCMPARATIVE EOUCATIONI IND[CATORS  (CONTOI                               Tbe1 
...........................Page  2
CAPRIL 19,1978 3
---------                                                             ------------------ - --  ------------                                ---- -B---
GNP/ :   G NP  :1 T-IAL:l  0F PUBLIC                 .        ::PRI. :AV.PRI.                                    :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVrIEO:PUt3LIC :ECUCATION    :LITER-    PRI. :COMPIE- :STU- :SCH.IEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU-
AT  :TC EUL,.:  EXP. :PECURRENT    :ACY             :ENROLL:TION       :OENTS1'SALAgY IN-ION RATE :ENROLL:CoENTS:HIGHER:
:M4ARKET: (PUBLIC:(DtVrTEO:hXP ALLOCATEI3   RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :EAIN:RMPI:AI    PR :NOI
POP.  :PPICE,;  EXP.   If)TO:                      OF D    . NET  :PRI.SCH.:.TEACH:  TO GNP/ :TO SEC.   2NET  :TEACH- RATIO:
YPRMILLS.: (JSE>:  O~LY)         ÉOU. :PPI. SEC. HI.:AOUITS): (fl   :CYCLEI3) :ER    ICAPITA    (2 <>                   123   :ER       (2
(1>  2:  ('j  ~~(3>     14)          (5>       :  6>       (7>       (8)       (9>     (10>       (11)    2(123   :(13)  (14)
ASIA ANC ))6L~11A
AFOHON11 IATN    74  13.7F    1503       ..      ..       3P  23P   16P    Io         26X      24 ~   41           5.0        78         88     21       1.00
BANGLAI)ESH      73  78.6F      90>      1_.   20.2       s4Y  22Y  21Y   230        56X       ...       48D        .   ...             23X0    28       ..
-HINSlE3T I W.A>Y  73  16.03    9301    3.2    14.C      ?8   41   22       82      98C       94        40      14.0         84       B1C      26     20.O01
1 N5~141         75 b08.1      14,       2.pvy .'.        ..... . .    298           6587      .. .      43A       ...        ...      298Y    20AY   2.34EY
1 INoO ~~s IÊ.   74 132.1>    22 1F      3. '?   i 11.2  69   21   10       608      798      43        30        2.0G       52        198     14       2.00
iRpAN           73  33.4>  1 ,60F         .3.    12.6    508  188  12B    50         77        748       32        5.08       80A      24       32       4.32CY
1 5 A           75  11.1  1,252 ', ..Tc    .. 30F.......    261                      9387      ...       22        .          ...       35XY   26C       8.478
006083~          73   2.7~  562>         '.0     8.'>     52   15    21      59       918      76        38        5.0        84        5OX     22       4.00
KG~~EA      75  3,.o       5 ~   b  2.9   jR.JX    65   3 3        2     920    104X       98        52        3. 5       77       55X      38       7.8
L E 5A WN   7 2    3.211  1, )7 1-   '.8     8       35   40    10       68      86        65        19        2.0        63       26U      2 5    23.00
MALC~YSI)        7 4  I0.3F    760F      c..4    2.       44   31    il      601      96F      90        32        4.00       83F       44F     27F      3.00F
NEP4L            76   12.6F    110of     1. 1    10.0     29   20   41       19       59       28        31        2.3        64        14      24       0.8
JMAN            72   3.8F 2,300>         1.7'A    3.8     96    -   -        20       24X      99        33        7.0        ...       0.4X     9       ..
?8KI S18-        75  5,9.2     1 60      1.6    16.2      45   25    18      21       47X      50        39        2.0        ...       177     18       6.00
PAELlA N.0.      75   2.8      477'      5.6    16.1      38    16   24      32       57?      73P       31       11.0        90        1'x?   24        0.90?
PHICLIPPINES    74  42.2F   3 ',F        2.5    14.9      73   15   12       87     104X         .       34       15.0        ...   ~..X        ...    21.00
5IPGXPORE        74,   2.3E  2 .-,F      2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39Y  17Y    75A    109X7           728       317       ...        996      "'XY    24        7.687
S3'E[8           75   7.4      7?)       3.6    6.9       39   25   26       53       89       70        '3        2.0        92         7      21      12.00
THAILANO         7?  41. 9F   3';F       4.ONF 20.7F    65       9    15     82       87X      93C       32        3.0 U      91C       21X     24       2.00
TURK?Y           73  40.2F   SOIF        5. 6C Y 20.6CY ....... .                     85Y      ...       3147      ...        ...       24Y     270Y   5.83Y
YEMEN            73   5.9>    1)3oF      0. 5    4.0      45P  21P  23P    10         15X      le        36        5.0        75         28     19       0.058Y
Yf£)Fh. P.,).,.  7'.   1. 7>    2S0F     3.5BY 10.9BY  79    12  ...         10       78Y       31       30Y      10.0        99        197     20       0.67Y
SJMMXP7 FOR Di VELOPING CU.,'TRIES2
NUMBER (3F C-.IINTRIES:                  82     77       77   74    73      76       84       59        8456                 63        83      80        74
RANGE;                               (0.5-   (3.8-  <215- (5-   (2-       (-      <1-       <-          9-      (.-        7-        .4      <-       (0-
12.0 ) 33.01   96 ) 47>   41)   98>          1338>    99 3       69 I    25.0 I 99)             80   3393    23.0>
QUAR71LES:UPPER :5.1    20.9                           54    31   22       73      88        76        46          7       83        29       26      6.0
MEDIAN:                   4.0    16.2      45   23    17       50      72        55        37          4       63        16       23      2.5        e
LOW4ER:                   2.q    12.3      38   18    12       20      48        30        32          3       43         a       20        .9
SYMS3PLS: ... 06TUM UNAVAILABLE                 8=1970 OR BEFORE             M4-CURRENT PRICES                          SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 6=1971                              N=GOP
7QUESTIONABLE                      C=1972                       P=INCLUDINC, FOREIGN A10                    COLUmNS:l AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-rIME STUIENTS 0=1973                             Q-CENTRAL G0VT. ONLY                                           OR IBRO MISSIONS
**COMBINEO  WITH PRIMAPY            E=1974                       R=MINISTRY 0F EDUCATION IMOEI ONLY                    3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
*    UNDER REVIFW                    F=1975                       S=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONIY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
0=1976                       T-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                      STATISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVA16 EXPENDITURE
X=INCLUDING OVERAGEO STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EOUCAT ION DATA APE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION 0F VAkRIDUS EDUCATIONI SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS 0F RELATIVE ST#,GES 0F EOUCATIONAL
DEVELIJPMENT BETWJEEN VARIOUS COUNTI1IS. HOWEVEP,ON THE BASIS 0F THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULO BE APPROACHEO WITH
GREAT CAUT ION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE6 6BOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAIND6X ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDAROIZE DEFINITIONS AND WIIHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCUkACY OF THE DAIA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILI IMPERFECI IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON Th1A OCCASION OF ITS UPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE 0F THESE DATA, THR FOLIOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULO SE BORNE IN
MI NO:
(1)l'EOUCAT ION"- AS DEFINEO IN THC TABLE INCLUDES A11 EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAI AND NON-FORMAI;
123'PRIMARY EÛUCATI)3N REFERS T') ECucArION AT THE FIRST LEVEL ANO "SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO AIL EDUCATIOJN AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL RFGARDLESS OF TYPE             GEN.OPERAL, TECHNICAI, AGRICULTURAL> 
i3>"IITERACY RATES"CCOL.6) ARE '9FTÉN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENS>JSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFCRM IIEFINITION 0F -LITERATE~ HAS BEEN FOLLOWEO CONSISTENTLY;
14>"PUBLIC EXPENOIIUPE IN FOUCAFI3N-(COLS.3,4 AND 5> REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPE4DOCTURES DEVOTEO TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIE:S;
15)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS-'CCOLS 7, 12 AND 14> SEFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTArE OF ELIGIBLE CHILOREN ENROLIE0 FULI-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE ICHO'OL, P'JPLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. 11HEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECI TO A WIOE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELIPIPNG
COUNTRIES DWING TOU7VAPIATION IN rl-E ACCURACY 0F BASIC D61A>1.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS>. ENROLLMeNT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHEP THAN 1H>  NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALL7 IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGEO STUJDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INOICATFO  8Y
FOOENCTES ALSO CEN INF-LATi Tf-L PATIOS.



Annex 1
Table 2.1
ALGERIA IV
Technical Assistance for Experts and
Fellowship Training
Fellowsiip
Experts                   Training
Institution
Man/Years                  Man/Years
NIME:                                              14                           27
NIMET:                                             12                          41
IVIT:                                              21                          44
ENSEP:
Existing  Y                                       6 2/3                       5 5/6
Extension                                         6                            7 1/2
MOE:         2/                                      2                           1 5/6
Studies:
(i)    Artisanat                                    4 1/6
(ii)   Distance Learning                            2 1/12
(iii)  Research in Vocational Training              1 1/4
1/   Includes a number of experts for short periods (para 2.17)
2/   One expert for two years or more experts over shorter periods



Annex 1
Table 3.1
ALGERIA IV                                                O
Unit Capital Costs- and Areas per Student
Gross Area      Buildings &                 Equipment/-
lb
Type of Facility             per Student-  Site Works   Furniture            CIF
M2         ----------      US$----------------
National Institute of
Mechanical Engineering:
Academic & communal
Engineers (NIME)                 18.2          11,250           897         6,790
Higher technicians
(NIMET)                        20.7           13,696        1,097         8,144
Administrative staff
housing                         120,0          72,900           --           --
Student boarding
NIME                             12.0           7,111           592           102
NIMET                            10.0           6,370           530           102
Institute for Vocational
Teacher Training (IVIT):
Academic & communal                17.1          11,812           859         3,696
Administrative staff
housing                        110.4           63,000          --            --
Technical Teacher Training
College (ENSEP):
/d
Academic & communal                14.5-            -
/a  Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
lb  Excluding covered galleries (about 10% of gross areas), the cost of which is
included in the cost estimates; including 800 m2 of enclosed sports facilities.
/c  Unit costs for NIME and NIMET include computers.
Id  On basis of total area and enrollment of the Institute.
.



ALGERIA IV
Contingency Allowances
Professional               Technical Assistance
Civil Works           Furniture             Equipment              Services              Experts            Fellowships           Total Project Cost
Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign          Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign   Total
Contingencies (as % of project cost):
Unforeseen        1                                10.0    10.0         10.0    10.0          10.0    10.0          10.0    10.0          5.0       5.0         5.0       5.0
Price escalation-                                  38.5    33.5         35.5    25.6          35.5    25.6          32.9    26.0        33.6       33.6       33.6       33.6
Total                                          48.5    43.5          45.5    35.6          45.5    35.6          42.9    36.0        38.6       38.6       38.6      38.6
Project cost (without contingencies):
Millions AD                                   130.7   113.9           6.7    12.4          18.1   102.7           5.8    13.5         3.2      12.6         1.6       6.3        166.1    261.4    427.5
Millions US$                                    32.2    28.2           1.6      3.1         4.5    25.3           1.5      3.3        0.8        3.1        0.4       1.6         32.6      58.6       91.2
7 Foreign exchange                                          46.6                  65.0                 85.0                  70.0                  80.0                  80.0                   61.2
Contingencies (amounts):
Unforeseen
Millions AD                                     13.1    11.4          0.6       1.3         1.8     10.2         0.6       1.4        0.2        0.6        0.1       0.3         16.4      25.2       41.6
Millions US$                                     3.3      2.8          0.2      0.3         0.4      2.6          0.2      0.3        0.0        0.1        0.0       0.1          4.1       6.2      10.3
Price escalation
Millions AD                                     50.3    38.2           2.4      3.2         6.5     26.3          1.9      3.5        1.0        4.3        0.5       2.1         62.6      77.6    140.2
Millions US$                                    12.4      9.4          0.6      0.8         1.6      6.5         0.4       0.9        0.3        1.1        0.1       0.5         15.4      19.2      34.6
Subtotal
Millions AD                                     63.4    49.6           3.0      4.5         8.3     36.5          2.5      4.9        1.2       4.9         0.6       2.4         79.0    102.8    181.8
Millions US$                                    15.7    12.2           0.8      1.1         2.0      9.1         0.6       1.2        0.3        1.2        0.1       0.6         19.5      25.4       44.9
% Foreign exchange                                          43.9                  59.2                 81.6                  66.2                  80.0                  80.0                  56.5
Total project cost (with contingencies):
Millions AD                                    194.1   163.5           9.7    16.9        26.4   139.2           8.3    18.4          4.4      17.5         2.2       8.7        245.1    364.2    609.3
Millions US$                                    47.9    40.4           2.4      4.2         6.5    34.4           2.1      4.5        1.1        4.3        0.5       2.2         60.5      90.0    150.5
% Foreign exchange                                          45.7                  63.4                 84.1                  68.9                  80.0                  80.0                  59.8
1/  Price escalation computed on basis of following annual percentage increases:   1977                1978    1979    1980        1981     1982   1983   1984
L  F    t  F    L  F       t  F    L  F    LF   L  F   L  F
Civil works                        109    129    109           98        8  8    88
Furniture and equipment            10  7.5 12  7.5 10  7.5  9  7    8  7    7  7
Professional services              10  9   12  9   10  9    9  8    7  7    7  7
Technical assistance                7  7    7  7    7  7    7  7    7  7    77   7  7   7  7
2/  Total contingencies equal 42.5% of project cost without contingencies and 29. 8%  of total project cost.
oIx






ALGERIA IV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (NIME)
1977          1978           1979          1980           1981          1982           1983          1984          1985
lT2 r3T411}2   11l   12345234,24                                                        1121l ,2 321  ,112 3 [4
SITE:                                      Selection          Surveys
Proces-Verbal
Selection             Design                            Supervision
CONSULTANT ARCHITECTS:                                                                 -     -  -  -  -  -         -  -  -
Appointment
Esquisse                                             -   _
Avant-Projet
Projet Definitif  -- _  ________    ________            ._____
Recruit-
ment                 FoIIow-Up                                        Fellowships, ExpertsL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                                                                  m   -      l   --                             m    -" _ _ _ Iii "
Major Input                                            R                      R
Project Review & Refinements                         _L
Bid
Docs.  idding               Construction             Liability
CONSTRUCTION:                                                               IWdM-                                           - uuu,,ua
Preliminary       Final R       R                      D
E  ists        lists    j          Procurement             Installation        I
EOUIPMENT & FURNITURE.                                                                 m        --   lm -   --     ImIIIIl
I  T     Agreements & R                                 R
Needs       Scheduling                    IReal ization
INFRASTRUCTURE (BY OTHERS):                                        M    e d S c      euin _     elzain-zz
R    R                      R
Negotiations                                               R
Completion/Opening of School                                                                      _             _
Closing Date            --                                                       t
i-lt
R - Bank Review
R  H
R -Bank Review & ApprovalWod8n-32



ALGERIA IV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (NIMET)
1977          1978           1979          1980           1981          1982           1983          1984          1985
1 12 13 14   1  2.1.3_14   li 2T3T4 124 1IT   1r24                      -11 21.3.14    111l              1 2 134 1 431
Selectian         Sueys
SITE:                                                                 m S
Proces-Verbal
Selection             Design                            Supervision
CONSULTANT ARCHITECTS:                                        R      R             R
Appointment              -
Esquisse
Avant-Projet
Projet Definitif                          Recruit-
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:oment                                           Fellowships, Experts
TECHN ICAL ASSISTANCE:                               _                                z           I    _  _    _ -   -  _  _    _    _"    ~~ I g  IIg r..
_ _ _ _   _   _                             R                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R  R           R
Major Input
Project Review & Refinements
Bid
iON S T R U C TIO N:    D ocs  3idding        C onstruc tio n          L iabilitY
CONSTRUCTION:                                                                             m                                     .m,.u..m*  ,i
Preliminary       Final                                                          i
E  Eists        lists F             Procurement            Installation
EQUIPMENT & FURtNITURE:                                                                 -  -     -_ _     _   _ _  III
R R  Agreements & R                     r              R
Needs      Scheduling                       Realization
INFRASTRUCTURE BY OTHERS):                                                 - -                                   _ - - -     _
Negotiations -_-                                __
Completion/Opening of School                 -                      _          _ _   _ _
Closing Date                                                        ___   __________
.                 !                                                               ___.            !                                          X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t N
R - Bank Review                                                                                                                                                                       ,t p
R - Bank Review & Approval                                                                                                                              Worîd Bank-18324 
*                                                                                            *                                                  ,                                        e B



*~~~~ e
ALGERIA IV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INSTITUTE FOR VOCATIONAL INSTRUCTOR TRAINING (IVIT)
1977         1978          1979           1980          1981          1982          1983          1984
1 1 2 1I3Wi4 R1 I1Xl  EZll ]ZE   41234
Selecti o         Surveys
SITE:                                                      ..Ij
Proces-Verbal                                     R R
Selection       Design                         Supervision
CONSULTANT ARCHITECTS:                     t R
Appointmnent
Esquisse
Avant-Projet
Projet Definitif                       Rcut_
Recruit
me nt                  FoIIow-Up                            Fellowships, Experts
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                                                                    m  m FoUI_ -       owships, E r        _
R  R                        ~~~~~~~~~R        R                             R
Major Input                                 _         T
Project Review & Refinements                                                                                  -      N
Bid
Docs. Bidding            Construction              imability
CONSTRUCTION:I                                                                       -                              uoermmi
Preliminary         R      R    Final
lists                        lists    Procurement    Installation
EQUIPMENT & FURNITURE:                                                                       unMf Moeuuu-I
Ma R        1R                                  R     jI
-       Agreements &             -                  I
Needs      Scheduling                    IRealization j
INFRASTRUCTURE (BY OTHERS):                              a        -  -  -    R : 
MR                     MR
Negotiations
Completion/Opening of School                        l                                                             *r
Closing Date                                    --------                                                             _  
R - Bank Review
R - Bank Review & Approval                                                                                                          WorldBank-18322



ALGERIA IV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE (ENSEP)
1977         1978          1979           1980          1981          1982          1983          1984
1 | 2 | 3 | 4  1 | 2  | 3 | 4  1|2|3|4   1|21314  1 |             41|2|3 |              2  3  4  1 |2 |3|4
Surve   I
SITE:                                  *
Selection       Design       Supervision
CONSULTANT ARCHITECTS:                                       R              * *
Appointment                                  R R
Esquisse
Avant-Projet
Projet Definitif
Recruit-            Folow-
ment                  Up               Fellowships, Experts
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                         s                       R                i  _ 
Major Input                                   R -  R
Project Review & Refinements                -I
Bid Bid-
Docs.ding Construction    Liability
CONSTRUCTION:                        I     _ _                                   1111111 III
Lisits   Procurement  Installation   I
EQUIPMENT & FURNITURE:                                 P            I I      io
R             R
Negotiations
Completion/Opening of School -
Closing Date                                                                      J-
i~~~~~t N
R - Bank Review
R - Bank Review & Approval                                                                                                     World Bank - 18325       '-
*                                                                                 *                                                     Ie



Annex 1
Table 3.3
ALGERIA IV
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Calendar           1/    Disbursements        Disbursements          Balance
FY     year     Semester-      Amount    %         Amount    %         Amount    %
78
1/1/78-
0.0    0.0        0.0      0.0        90.0   100.0
79
1            0.5    0.5         0.5     0.5         89.5    99.5
1/1/79
2            3.2    3.5         3.7     4.0         86.3    96.0
80
3            4.2    4.7         7.9     8.7         82.1    91.3
1/1/80
4            7.2    8.0        15.1    16.7         74.9    83.3
81
5           11.5   12.8        26.6    29.5         63.4    70.5
1/1/81
*82                    6            22.0   24.4        48.6    53.9         41.4    46.1
7           23.2   25.8        71.8    79.7         18.2    20.3
1/1/82
8            8.8    9.8        80.6    89.5          9.4    10.5
83
9            6.9    7.7        87.5    97.2          2.5      2.8
1/1/83
10             0.8    0.9       88.3    98.1          1.7      1.9
84
il             0.9    1.0        89.2    99.1         0.8      0.9
1/l/84
12             0.8    0.9        90.0   100.0          0.0     0.0
85
13
1/1/85
14
1/  Beginning from the Date of Loan Agreement (anticipated June 30, 1978).






Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   Réforme de l'Enseignement: Plan Quadriennal 1974-77,
Vol. I, II, III, décembre 1973
2.   Programme d'Investissement: Plan Quadriennal 1974-77,
Mai 1974
3.   Projections Provisoires de la Population Algérienne
de 1970 à 1985, Secrétariat d'Etat au Plan, Direction des
Statistiques, janvier 1972
4.   Informations Statistiques 1973/74, 1974/75, 1975/76 and
1976/77 (provisional), Ministère de l'Education
5.   Programme de Développement de l'Enseignement Supérieur et
de la Recherche Scientifique 1976-85, Ministère de
l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique, 1976
6.   Bulletin Statistique, 1975/76, 1976/77, Ministère de l'Enseignement
Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique
7.   Stratégies pour le Développement du Système d'Education Post-
Secondaire en Algérie, Vol. II: Estimation des Besoins en Effectifs
de l'Economie Algérienne 1969 à 1990, A.D. Little, pour le
Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, aoet 1971 (with Annexes I and II).
8.   Romconsult, Etude concernant le Développement de l'Enseignement
Supérieur en Algérie 1976-1985, Bucarest, 1978
9.   Programme d'Investissements de la Ile Tranche: Plan Quadriennal
1974-77, Ministère du Travail et des Affaires Sociales, septembre 1976
10. Report of Reconnaissance-in-depth Mission, 1975
IBRD/EMENA, April 1975
11. Current Economic Position and Prospects of Algeria
Vol. I (No. 900-AL), IBRD, October 20, 1975
.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
e
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Algeria:  Education Project Preparation Assistance Missions,
Office Memoranda (Full Reports) 2/18/77, 5/9/77 and 6/29/77
2.   Formation de Professeurs de l'Enseignement Technique en Algérie,
Vols. I, II, III, GTZ, pour le Ministère du Travail et de la
Formation Professionnelle, 1977
3.   Institut National du Génie Mécanique, Projet de Création en Algérie
d'un Système de Formation en Génie Mécanique, Consortium français
pour le Ministère de l'Industrie et de l'Energie, 1974
4.   National Institute of Mechanical Engineering, Preinvestment Study
prepared by Gas Development Corporation,,Illinois Institute of
Technology, 1976
5.   I.N.G.M., Formation Première de Techniciens Supérieurs et
d'Ingénieurs en Génie Mécanique, Ministère de l'Industrie et de
l'Energie, 1977.
6.   E.N.S.E.P. Program Higher Technical Training, Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research, 1976
7.   Presentation Notes on Studies:
(a) Artisanat
(b) Pedagogical Research on Vocational Training
(c) Distance Learning for Vocational Training
C.   Selected Working Papers
Deinocratic and Popular Republic of Algeria:  Fourth Education Project,
Educational and Architectural Working Papers, June, 1978
. _ . . _ _~



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4-8
MEz)/ÎERR.4 ANE AN    SEA                                                    -                                           Nohe
e  ALGINERSI NIME
El  M'I'~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~7                                         NTINLISIUTO   EHNCA   NIERN
<HIGHRR   HNICSANS NIMET>
33o  JX 9t XX \f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ST T                                                                                                E  FO    VO AINI  INSTRUTRTAININS,
i  )~) \ / \t)/ > 8~ _Ml l SwkVAh m s                                                                                                                    (
TECHNICALTEA IER  TRAINING    OILEGEA  ENSEkAh
M I \                                          M    R O A D S
(                                                                                                                                                  SEecNeAR RBAOS
/                                Bemiana                                       FOURTH EDUC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTRATIONA BONPROEJECT
Abb.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
/                                                                                  <-                                                       <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUT    EDUCSTIT ORVCTONA INSROJCTRTRANN
TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE tENSEPI
OutuglaO                    ~~~~~~MAIN ROADS                              32°-
_ F   O   w                  lbD                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
fhPM;teabs by tiW   O-Aatkssh-thimh   b Wwr KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                DESERTTRACKS
of the read m of bhe t tPnt to which it is tUnnhelf Th demsm;rNtisns t alat thd                                                            - RIVERS                  _~RIVERS 
mmerpanemofnghbmmdssim                                                                                                               Ls   , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERMITTENT LAKES  C D
- -INTERNATIONAL BDOUNDARIES                       8â J
fp                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                    E
l  l                                                                            l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8



