 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14717

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/23/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P101608                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Vn-avian & Human             Project Costs (US$M):                      38.0                 61.2
                         Influenza Control
                         &prep
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      20.0                 30.0
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  03/13/2007
                                                               Closing Date:           12/31/2010            06/30/2014
          Sector(s):      General public administration sector (50%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector
                          (21%); Health (21%); Other social services (7%); Solid waste management (1%)
         Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Other communicable diseases (25%); Natural
                          disaster management (24%); Other social protection and risk management (13%); Health
                          system performance (13%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg         Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Technical Annex of February 14, 2007 (p. 10) the objective of Vietnam’s plan for the medium to
    long-term control of avian influenza is “ to reduce the health risk to humans from avian influenza by controlling the
    disease at source in domestic poultry, by early detection and response to human cases, and by preparing for the
    medical consequences of a human pandemic if it occurs over the next five years.”

    According to the Loan Agreement of April 12, 2007 (p. 5), the objective of the Vietnam Avian and Human
    Influenza and Human Pandemic Preparedness Project (VAHIP) was “to assist the Recipient to increase the
    effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to poultry and to humans from avian influenza in
    selected provinces, through measures to control the disease at source in domestic poultry, to detect early and r
    espond to human cases of infection, and to prepare for the medical consequences of a potential human
    pandemic.”

    This project was part of an adaptable program loan (APL) entitled the Global Program for Avian Influenza Control
    and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI). The GPAI was designed “to provide emergency
    financing to participating countries to contain outbreaks of avian influenza through early detection and rapid
    response measures” (Technical Note, p. 9).

    In June 2011, an Additional Financing was approved that supported a second phase to expand the scope of the
    project. The PDO did not change at the time of additional financing. This Review covers both phases of the
    project.

    This Review will use the PDO in the Loan Agreement as basis for the validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 06/29/2011

c. Components:

    The project contained three components:

    Component A: Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) Control and Eradication in the Agricultural Sector
    (appraisal estimate US $ 17.2 million for Phase 1 and US$ 4.31 million for Phase 2, actual US$ 21.51 million):
    This component was to finance: i) strengthening of veterinary services; ii) improving disease control; iii)
    performing surveillance and epidemiological investigations and strengthening of the disease surveillance system
    ; iv) supporting the Ministry of Agriculture in analyzing and preparing for the restructuring of the poultry sector;
    and v) developing and implementing emergency outbreak containment plans.

    Component B: Influenza Prevention and Pandemic Preparedness in the Health Sector (appraisal estimate US $
    16 million for Phase 1 and US$ 16.28 million for Phase 2, actual US$ 32.28 million): This component was to
    finance; i) improving the technical quality of the surveillance and response systems; ii) improving the technical
    quality and efficiency of curative care readiness; iii) supporting behavior change and risk communications; and
    iv) strengthening the preventive health system at the local level.

    Component C: Integration and OPI (National Integrated Operational Program for Avian and Human Influenza ,
    2006-2010) Coordination, Results Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and Project Management (appraisal
    estimate US$ 4.8 million for Phase 1 and US$ 4.41 million for Phase 2, actual US$ 9.21 million): This co
    mponent was to finance: i) supporting the integration and coordination of the National Avian and Human
    Influenza Program; ii) performing Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) for the project and for national results; and iii)
    managing the project at the central and provincial levels.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project Costs: The project was estimated to US$ 38 million for Phase 1 and US$ 25 million for Phase 2. Actual
    total cost was US$ 61.16 million (97.07% of appraisal); according to the Project Team, cancellation of some
    funds was made possible due to savings in procurement and training toward the end of the project period. Actual
    costs by component reported by the ICR (p. 30), and also reported above in Section 2c, do not appear to take
    these cancellations into account.

    Financing: According to the Technical Annex (p 69), the first phase (VAHIP 1) of the project was supposed to be
    financed as follows:

        A US$ 20 million IDA credit, of which US$ 624,266 was cancelled.
        A US$ 10 million Avian and Human Influenza Facility Trust Fund Grant, of which US$ 51,240 was cancelled.

        A US$ 5 million Policy and Human Resources Development Trust Fund Grant, of which US$ 721,915 was
         cancelled.
        A US$ 3 million Recipient contribution.

    Since VAHIP 1 was considered successful, additional financing was made available for a second phase. VAHIP
    2 was financed as follows:

        A US$ 10 million IDA credit, of which US$ 1.13 million was cancelled.
        A US$ 13 million Avian and Human Influenza Facility Trust Fund Grant, of which US$ 1,104 was cancelled.
        A US$ 2 million Recipient contribution.

    Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the estimate for the Recipient’s contribution was US$ 3 million. The
    Recipient added another US$ 2 million for the implementation of VAHIP2. Actual disbursement was US$ 5
    million (100%).

    Dates: There were three restructurings:

        On July 19, 2010 funds were reallocated among disbursement categories and the closing date for VAHIP 1
         was extended from December 31, 2010 to June 30, 2011.
        On June 14, 2011 the closing date for VAHIP 1 was extended from June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2012.
        On June 29, 2011 indicators were revised to reflect extended project activities that could be implemented
         due to additional financing. The second phase (VAHIP 2) had a closing date of June 30, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   High: The objective was highly relevant given the global threat Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) H5N1
   presented to health and economies. In 2003, when the HPAI H5N1 was detected in Vietnam, within four months
   the virus spread to 57 out of the 67 provinces. The economic cost was estimated at US$ 250 million (0.5% of
   Vietnam's GDP). The threat to Vietnam from avian influenza and similar pathogens remained high. The
   assessment of high relevancy was fully consistent with international expert consensus. The objective was in line
   with Vietnam’s plans to control the avian influenza and other zoonotic diseases threats as stated in the National
   Integrated Operational Program for Avian and Human Influenza (2006-2010) and the Integrated Operational
   Program on Avian Influenza, Pandemic Preparedness, and Emerging Infectious Diseases (2011-2015). Although
   avian influenza is not explicitly cited in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategies at appraisal or at closing, the
   objective was in line with the elements of the Bank’s CAS at closing (2012-2016) that aim to decrease Vietnam's
   vulnerability by supporting risk mitigation to preserve the country's high economic growth.


b. Relevance of Design:

   High: The planned activities were logically and plausibly linked to the achievement of the project's objectives:
   support for the government to increase the effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to poultry
   and to humans from avian influenza. The planned activities included the supply of laboratory equipment required
   for the testing of the avian influenza virus, improving the biggest wholesale poultry market near Hanoi, and
   performing monthly disease surveillance and investigation. Activities related to the early detection and response
   to human cases of infection included training to improve the reporting time of new outbreaks. Health staff were to
   be trained to prepare for the medical consequences of a potential human pandemic. Also, the project addressed
   the risks related to backyard poultry. The causal relationships between these planned interventions and
   underlying assumptions about how program actions would lead to intended outcomes were logical and properly
   laid out. The Bank used an emergency operation, which was appropriate given the situation.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Assist the Recipient to increase the effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to poultry and to
   humans from avian influenza in selected provinces , through measures to control the disease at source in
   domestic poultry, to detect early and respond to human cases of infection , and to prepare for the medical
   consequences of a potential human pandemic .

   Increase the effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to poultry : High
   Outputs

        80 demonstration sites demonstrated biosecure poultry production to 1,760 farmers, surpassing the target of
         25 demonstration sites.
        Veterinary services on disease diagnostic and surveillance were strengthened, meeting the revised target
         value of 8 laboratories which meet the international standard for Avian Influenza testing.

   Outcomes

        All suspected Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) cases were investigated. The original target of 275
         HPAI reports could not be achieved due to lower disease prevalence than planned.
        All upgraded markets and slaughterhouses applied practice according to project guidelines, achieving the
         target.
        All poultry traders at the Ha Vy market (a live poultry wholesale market near Hanoi) applied good biosecurity
         practices, achieving the target.
        The reporting time of new outbreaks and return of laboratory confirmation to the affected commune was
         reduced from 8.7 days in 2006 to 2.4 days for veterinary health, surpassing the target of 4 days.
        7.66% of samples at markets and slaughterhouses were positive for the H5N1 virus. The target of 2% was
         not met. It took an average of one day to completely contain suspected outbreaks, surpassing the target of
         two days. The ICR states that the target was ambitious and that the disease prevalence outcome was
         beyond the project’s control. Similarly, an IEG study [World Bank Independent Evaluation Group (2014)
         "Responding to Global Public Bads: Learning from Evaluation of the World Bank Experience with Avian
         Influenza, 2006-2013"] specifically cautioned against the use of prevalence indicators because of challenges
         with attribution and control.


    Increase the effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to humans from avian influenza in
    selected provinces: High

    Outputs

        98.6% of reports were accurately completed and sent on time to the Provincial Preventive Health Centers,
         surpassing the original target of 84% and the revised target of 90%.
        97.7% of reports were accurately completed and received at the District Preventive Health Center,
         surpassing the target of 90%.
        All provinces developed the Pandemic preparedness plan based on the guidelines by the Ministry of Health,
         achieving the target.
        All district hospitals developed the pandemic preparedness plan, achieving the target.
        68 multisectoral simulation exercises were conducted and reviewed at district levels in the project provinces,
         surpassing the original target of 17 and the revised target of 30.
        69,012 health staff was trained, surpassing the revised target of 21,905. There was no original target.
        20,532 health staff were trained on behavior change and risk communication skills. Communication material
         was distributed to the general population and to ethnic minority groups.

    Outcomes

        The reporting time of new outbreaks and return of laboratory confirmation to the affected commune was
         reduced from 10 days in 2006 to 3.4 days for human health, surpassing the target of 4 days.
        86.2% of the target population can accurately identify and have practiced at least one curative behavior,
         surpassing the original target of 40% and the revised target of 60%.
        88% of the target population can accurately identify and have practiced at least one preventive behavior,
         surpassing the original target of 40% and the revised target of 60%.
        98.8% of the general population can accurately identify and have practiced at least one key preventive
         behavior.
        87 District Preventive Medicine Centers in 11 provinces were fully equipped and have adequate capacity to
         implement their responsibilities and functions in compliance with Ministry of Health decisions on preventive
         medicine, surpassing the original target of 16 and the revised target of 79.

5. Efficiency:

    Substantial

    The ICR conducted a cost benefit analysis by assuming that if an outbreak in poultry would happen in 2015, it
    would cost Vietnam’s economy US$ 945 million (based on costs of outbreaks in 2004 and 2013). If an outbreak
    could be prevented, the benefit would be US$ 945 million. The analysis takes a more conservative approach
    which assumes that only 10% of the cost could be prevented through the public health system. Therefore, the
    benefit of prevention would be US$ 95 million. The analysis also assumes that Vietnam’s government spending
    is US$ 77 million in 2015 and that averted losses in the poultry sector are 10%. Therefore the expected annual
    rate of return on the investments in veterinary and human public health is 29%. If averted losses in the poultry
    sector were 20%, the internal rate of return would be 129%.

    The analysis demonstrates that the investment had high rates of return. However, it should be noted that the
    assumed benefits only materialize if a pandemic occurs, which is implicitly weighted at 1% probability. Moreover,
    the calculations assumed that the project would reduce pandemic impact by only 10%; thus in any year the
    benefit is one tenth of one percent of pandemic impact. The ICR adopted a conservative approach by assuming
    that probability of the occurrence of a pandemic is 1% per year to calculate the expected economic rate of return
    of the project. The project would have had an even higher expected rate of return if, for instance, the assumed
    probability was 2% (once-in-50 years event), which is used by some analyses.
   Delays in disbursement and implementation of activities during the early phases of the project were indicative of
   inefficiencies in the use of the Bank’s financial resources (see Section 9b). However, according to the ICR (p.
   26), the implementation units collaborated effectively across different sectors and across government levels.
   They identified new opportunities for efficiency gains, such as not paying for new customized surveillance
   software but rather adapting the surveillance software that had been implemented through a project financed by
   the Asian Development Bank. This measure led to cost savings. Efficiency is therefore rated Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                              Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No

   ICR estimate                   Yes                                       29%                                     100%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives is rated High, as the objectives were closely linked to the threat posed to the country by
   Avian Influenza and Bank and country strategy. Relevance of design is also rated High, as the project's planned
   activities were plausibly and tightly linked to anticipated outcomes. Achievement of the objective to increase the
   effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to poultry is rated High, as targets for upgrading
   markets and slaughterhouses as well as laboratory response were met. Achievement of the
   objective to increase the effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to humans from avian
   influenza in selected provinces is rated High, as targets for pandemic preparedness planning and
   education/training, reporting, and equipping of preventive medicine centers were exceeded. Efficiency is rated
   Substantial, with high estimated rates of return and evidence of cost-effective investment of Bank resources,
   despite delays in disbursement and implementation of activities early in the project's lifetime. Taken together,
   these ratings lead to an Outcome rating of Highly Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Highly Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   This project was an emergency project with the specific objective to support Vietnam in increasing the
   effectiveness of public services in reducing the health risk to poultry and to humans from avian influenza. The
   human and veterinary public health systems have improved significantly. The government continues to be
   committed to this work. However, Vietnam will face a few challenges. It may be challenging to mobilize financial
   resources for the continuous prevention of disease outbreaks. Also, it may be challenging to maintain the
   operating system that has already been built and continue to increase veterinary and human public health
   capacities. The ongoing Integrated National Operational Program on Avian Influenza, Pandemic Preparedness,
   and Emerging Infectious Diseases (2011-2015) also addresses influenza and other zoonotic diseases. However,
   due to the continuous decline in financial assistance by donors, sustainability presents a challenge.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team prepared an emergency project that was responsive to the government’s needs. The project
   was built on lessons learned from the implementation of the Bank’s Vietnam Avian Influenza Emergency
   Recovery Project but also more generally from the Bank’s experience in emergency response to disasters
   and the global HIV/AIDS program.

   The Bank team collaborated with other experts and development partners. Also, the Bank team ensured that
   best practice examples, including the Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
   Preparedness and Response, informed project design.
   During project preparation, several risks were identified, including political commitment, slow disbursement
   and procurement, weak capacity for project implementation on the provincial level, insufficient coordination
   between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, reluctance to
   innovation in the Ministry of Health, insufficient farm-level surveillance and increased virus circulation. The
   ICR (p. 6) states that mitigation measures were appropriate and effective. According to the project team, the
   Bank was intensively engaged in the preparation of this project to mitigate the risk of insufficient coordination
   between the two ministries. The Bank supported the government to formulate successive national integrated
   (animal health-human health) plans and linked the project to the global avian flu response in order to ensure
   political commitment. Also, to address capacity concerns at the provincial level, provincial staff obtained
   training on Bank procedures.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team provided technical assistance at the provincial levels and engaged with counterparts who
   were not familiar with Bank projects. Risks that were identified during project preparation were sufficiently
   mitigated. Fiduciary and safeguard aspects were addressed satisfactorily. The Mid-Term Review took place
   with only a three-month delay. Results from Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) were used to adapt project
   activities.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government showed strong ownership and commitment to the implementation of the project. There was
   ongoing engagement with stakeholders and development partners throughout implementation. The
   government also shared its experience fighting pandemics with the international community and hosted an
   international conference on animal and pandemic influenza.

   The government developed plans for pandemic response across several sectors, including the health sector,
   and across different levels of government. When plans from the provinces and districts were not prepared
   satisfactorily by the end of VAHIP 1, the government rejected them, and the plans were further developed and
   resubmitted at a higher quality by the end of VAHIP 2.

   According to the ICR (p. 7), M&E data was used to inform decision makers. For example, the indicators of
   disease prevalence were used to guide adjustments in surveillance activities and biosecurity investments in
   markets.

   According to the ICR (p. 23), the government will need additional financial and technical assistance to
   continue building capacity in disease prevention and control.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The project had two Implementation Units. The Ministry of Health was responsible for the human health
   component of the project, while the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development was responsible for the
   animal health component. The ICR (p. 25) states that there were difficulties due to decentralized
   implementation, such as in financial management., but that flexibility among the implementing units enabled
   effective and prompt corrective action. The ICR (p. 6) also states that there were delays during the first phase
    of the project, especially in procurement but also in other areas, which was common in the country due to
    slow processing of documentation by the government.

    According to the ICR (p. 26), the implementation units collaborated across different sectors and across
    government levels and aimed to identify new opportunities for efficiency gains such as not paying for a new
    customized surveillance software but rather adapting the surveillance software which had been implemented
    through a project funded by the Asian Development Bank. This measure led to cost savings. The
    implementation units utilized M&E data for decision making, such as in the field of animal health-human
    health interface.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The M&E framework of the project was aligned with the government’s monitoring and reporting system as well as
   the M&E framework of National Integrated Operational Program for Avian and Human Influenza. The causal
   chain between input and outcomes was clear. The Results Framework in the Technical Annex (pp. 39-40)
   included three PDO indicators and five intermediate outcome indicators. The selected indicators presented some
   challenges as a few had definition problems, measured disease outcomes that were beyond the control of the
   project, were difficult to collect, or had unrealistic target values. For example, final outcome indicators related to
   infectious diseases present a challenge due to influences that are outside the control of individual projects.
   However, this challenge applied only to a few indicators for this project, and there were sufficient intermediate
   outcome indicators to assess the achievement of the objectives (which were, in any event, geared toward
   improvements in the effectiveness of public services rather than directly toward decreasing disease incidence or
   prevalence).

   The ICR does not comment if the proposed data collection methods and analysis were appropriate for the
   purpose and if the M&E design was well embedded institutionally and had sufficient stakeholder ownership.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR (p. 7) states that indicators were reported on a regular basis, sometimes with delay, and were of good
   quality. Several indicators were adapted during implementation as priorities for monitoring changed. In June
   2011 indicators were revised to reflect extended project activities that could be implemented due to additional
   financing.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR (p. 7) states that M&E results and reports were used to inform decision makers and to adapt project
   activities. According to the ICR (p. 7) indicators on government performance were useful in tracking progress.

   According to the project team, M&E results and analysis were shared with stakeholders at the provincial level on
   a regular basis. Also, M&E results were shared with several hundred stakeholders from provinces and districts at
   the final project workshop. At project closing, no follow-on interventions were planned, and therefore the M&E
   framework of the project was not continued.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    The project was rated as environmental category B. The project triggered the Bank’s safeguards policies on
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12).
    According to the ICR (p. 8), compliance was satisfactory for all policies. Also, an Environmental Management
    Plan was prepared to address potential impacts. Updates on the Implementation of the Environmental
    Management Plan were submitted for revision to the Bank on a regular basis, and the Plan was implemented in a
    satisfactory manner.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management :

    The project’s financial management complied with the Bank’s financial management policies and procedures.
    The Project Implementation Units in the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
    were responsible for budget approval, financial reporting, and audits. All other financial management
    responsibilities were with the eleven provinces, each of which had a Project Implementation Unit for the human
    health component and one for the agriculture component. The Provincial Implementation Units received their
    funding on a local currency account from the national project implementation units and had to submit expenditure
    reports on a monthly basis.

    The Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Health submitted interim financial reports to the Bank on a
    quarterly basis. An independent firm submitted financial audits which were unqualified annually and in
    accordance with the Finance Agreement. According to the project team, submission of financial reports by the
    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development was fully satisfactory, and there was compliance with all other
    actions required by the Finance Agreement.

    Procurement:

    Until the Mid-Term Review there were delays in procurement due to the centralization of procurement activities
    related to the animal health component on the national level. These delays was addressed by moving more
    responsibilities to the provincial level. The ICR (p. 9) states that procurement activities were implemented in
    accordance with the Financing Agreement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    Systematic improvements made under this project such as better surveillance, pandemic plans, availability of
    personal protective equipment, and training on infection control, are also applicable to other disease threats.
    Also, in many districts in several provinces, local authorities improved the physical facilities of the district
    preventive medicine centers to complement project investments. Thus there was a catalytic effect to mobilize
    additional resources from provincial budgets for public health systems. While the project provided training and
    equipment, provinces financed the renovation of facilities, even construction of new ones in some cases. This
    greatly improved conditions for good functioning of the preventive medicine centers in many districts.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                    Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                           Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 26) identifies valuable lessons, including:

         In case of an emergency situation a move to a systematic improvement is critical for achieving better
          long-term outcomes. Vietnam took advantage of the situation to get political and financial support to
          improve its veterinary and human health system which is critical for addressing future disease outbreaks.
         Cross-sectoral approaches are critical but require good leadership. The collaboration between the
          Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development facilitated information sharing,
          joint analysis of results and efficient use of resources. However, this required the support of senior
          leaders from both ministries.
         Decentralization of project activities to lower government levels might be challenging but may lead to
          positive long term impacts. In this project, the decentralization of activities to the provincial and district
          levels built capacity in various areas. Also, the decentralization led to more project ownership at the lower
          government levels.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a large amount of information and a good overview of the project. The ICR is internally
    consistent. It complies with OPCS guidelines and provides useful lessons that are clearly derived from the main
    text's information and analysis. However, the ICR is not sufficiently candid and provides little information in
    regards to implementation challenges. The ICR mentions initial delays due to procurement challenges but does
    not provide information on what kind of challenges and how they were overcome by the Bank Team and the
    government.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
